Welcome Ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure to welcome a group of municipal councillors from Malaga this morning.
Our visitors include the wife and daughter of José María Martin Carpena, a Popular Party municipal councillor in Malaga, who was assassinated by ETA on 15 July.
Ladies, allow me to say that your presence with us here today illustrates your courage in coping with this horrendous experience, which was made all the more painful by your witnessing this heinous murder.
In all sincerity, I can do no more than offer you our deepest sympathy.
Yesterday, as you know, this House paid its respects to the victims of terrorism in Spain and observed a minute' s silence in their memory.
Faced with this, under the rule of law, we democrats can only unite to defend our system of freedom from the tyranny of terror and trust in judicial action.
For sixteen years I had the honour of being mayor of the city to which Martín Carpena dedicated his life and of presiding over the Council in which he worked.
Therefore, when all the social and communication institutions of Europe can react with the courage of this Parliament and when the fifteen different populations have the same attitude to ETA' s attacks, terrorism will be all but finished.
On behalf of the Socialist Group then, Madam President, I would like to pay the warmest of tributes to the memory of Martín Carpena and also offer my best wishes to the family and colleagues of this murdered councillor.
Madam President, the presence of the group of councillors from Malaga and, in particular, the presence of the widow of Martín Carpena can help us to regain that sense of hope which ETA wants to stamp out.
I believe that their presence is without doubt something which will allow us to believe that the Basque people can regain its capacity for dialogue and can return to peace.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left, I would also like to pay tribute to councillor Martín Carpena and express my admiration and gratitude to him, his family, his wife, his friends and, through them, to all the families of those people who, in the course of their duties, have lost their lives to terrorism.
I would like to say to his family and friends that his sacrifice has not been in vain and that they have been at the front line in the defence of democracy, through their bravery and courage, not only in the Basque Country and in Spain, but also in Europe.
That is why all the political groups, in unison, are today reaffirming their commitment to the defence of democracy and thanking those friends and families of people like Martín Carpena for the example they set.
Please be assured that the sacrifice of Martín Carpena has not been in vain.
I therefore hope that all countries will join forces even more emphatically than in the past in order to find these paths of peace and dialogue and that nobody will try to seek political gain from such attacks.
The Middle East The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East.
This is an issue which we addressed at our informal meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Evian on Saturday and Sunday.
You quite rightly decided, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to address the question of the situation in the Middle East.
This decision was all the more timely given that this region, which has been the scene of a number of particularly striking events over recent months, is approaching what may prove to be an historical watershed.
I also see their, to my knowledge, unprecedented visit as a gesture of recognition of the European Union' s unceasing efforts to promote peace in the region, a recognition which is also accompanied by high expectations of Europe.
I shall now endeavour to explain our analysis of recent developments and of the current state in the region and future prospects of the peace process.
We have witnessed a number of extremely important incidents in the Middle East over recent months, such as the Camp David summit and Israel' s withdrawal from southern Lebanon.
The death of the Syrian president, Hafez El Assad, under whom Syria became an important player in the region, occurred at the same time.
The accession to power in Israel of Ehud Barak, who was elected on a platform of peace, and Yasser Arafat' s unstinting determination to keep the dialogue alive allowed the peace negotiations to resume, thereby helping to resolve the stalemate which had dogged the peace process for several years.
The second redeployment was completed on 24 March 2000, i.e.
Other provisions have not been properly implemented.
The recent Camp David summit was held in response to this situation and, even though it did not achieve the hoped-for agreement, it did open new prospects on all aspects of Permanent Status and, as such, cannot be considered a failure.
It was in fact the first time that they had debated all aspects of Permanent Status without any taboos and neither hesitated in advancing and relaxing the positions of principle which they had hitherto presented as non-negotiable.
The progress achieved at Camp David needs to be consolidated and final concessions are necessary, especially on the question of Jerusalem, refugees and, above all, the Holy Places.
Camp David opened up new possibilities.
The Israeli Prime Minister, who was elected on a platform of peace, wants an agreement, and an agreement is just as much in his interests as it is in the interests of President Arafat, who has stood by his decision to become involved in the Oslo process.
As for the deadline of 13 September set in the Sharm el-Sheikh agreement for concluding Permanent Status negotiations, it cannot be postponed indefinitely unless the negotiations show some tangible sign of progress and the prospect of an early outcome.
If the hope raised by Camp David is to be made reality, the parties must, first and foremost, continue to be involved and to demonstrate the same commitment and will as they have shown hitherto.
The European Union is prepared in this context to do whatever it can to guarantee that the efforts being made will be successful.
You also noticed how just how strong expectations of Europe still were.
It was this concern to affirm the role of Europe and meet the parties' expectations which prevailed when a special European Union envoy was appointed back in 1996.
Ambassador Moratinos - whom I greet and who has held this post for the last four years - has managed to give Europe a profile in the Middle East by cultivating daily contacts with all the leaders in the region.
Finally, Europe has developed a cooperation policy with all the countries in the Middle East in a bid to create the right conditions for harmonious economic and social development and, at the same time, strengthen regional integration, which is crucial if peace is to gain a permanent foothold.
As a result, as you all know, Europe has underwritten nearly half the financial commitments to international aid to Palestine since 1993.
It is, of course, and I should like to stress this point, prepared to help with the full implementation of the agreements that have been concluded when the time comes.
However, the Camp David discussions give us an initial idea of what the outlines of a future agreement may be.
I should like to say in this context that, in our view, a Palestinian state will inevitably emerge, but it must be a viable, peaceful and democratic state.
This right to a state and, hence, to proclaim statehood must not be subject to any veto.
However, as the European Union has already stated, it would obviously prefer a Palestinian state to emerge from a completed process of negotiation.
Its position on this question is as stated in the Berlin declaration of March 1999.
As you may have noticed, even the Palestinians are now questioning the advisability, the conditions and, most importantly, the timing of their proclamation of statehood in the light of current developments.
The exchange of views between the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Fifteen during the recent informal meeting in Evian, which I referred to earlier confirmed that the European approach in support of the peace process hitherto is the right one.
It is vital but it alone cannot guarantee peace and stability in the Middle East.
In addition, it is time, as the President of the French Republic recently stressed, for Syria and Israel to return to the negotiating table, given that the present status quo is in the interests of neither country.
Israel' s withdrawal from southern Lebanon on 24 May of this year put an end to 22 years of occupation and, as a result, 're-dealt the cards' , as it were.
This withdrawal, which was certified by the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 16 June, is a positive factor on more than one count.
So far, the difficulties have been overcome and it has been possible to implement the provisions of Resolution 425.
The question of Israeli incursions along the blue line was settled after two months of wrangling.
On 27 July, the Security Council adopted Resolution 1310 extending the UNIFIL mandate for a further six months.
On 5 August, the Lebanese Government agreed for the force to be redeployed in the former occupied zone and, since then, UNIFIL has set up a number of permanent posts in the zone and taken up its position along the Israeli-Lebanese border.
The redeployment of UNIFIL and the Lebanese Government' s dispatch of a mixed security force to the south are, in our view, positive developments.
The situation along the border with Israel is, however, still volatile.
The Lebanese Government therefore needs to accept all its responsibilities here in order to create the conditions needed so that UNIFIL can exercise its mandate in full.
The situation in southern Lebanon can only be stabilised if this region, which has suffered enormously from the occupation and the war, is rehabilitated and reintegrated into Lebanon' s economic and social fabric.
The European Union is of course more than ready to help reconstruct southern Lebanon as soon as conditions on the ground allow.
It intends to give very precise expression to its aid to Lebanon at the donors' conference for the reconstruction of southern Lebanon which is scheduled for the autumn under our presidency.
In addition, the changes taking place in the region give cause, we hope, to anticipate a gradual change in relations between Syria and Lebanon; here too the situation is no less volatile and we are convinced that only an Israeli-Syrian agreement, in application of Security Council Resolution 242 and the principle of land for peace, will allow fair and lasting peace to be established in the region.
We must admit that circumstances do not appear to augur well for the resumption of negotiations between Israel and Syria, at least not in the short term.
During his investiture address on 7 July, President Bashar al-Assad indicated that he was anxious to conclude an agreement with Israel, reiterating that everything was negotiable except the line of 4 June 1967.
Ehud Barak, for his part, called on Syria to conclude what he called a 'peace of the brave' , an expression with which we concur.
My reading is that recent developments in the region are not linked solely to developments in the peace process, even if it does play a vital part.
It comes first and foremost within the wider context of the Barcelona Euro-Mediterranean process, which is an expression of the European Union' s wish to develop a global strategy for this region which is so close to and so inextricably bound up with us.
Gentlemen, your joint presence in our House and the addresses which you will shortly give are a highly symbolic gesture.
Madam President, I should like to begin by associating the Commission wholeheartedly with the moving remarks that you made yesterday about terrorism and about the courage of those who have been martyred for democracy and also with the remarks made this morning by Members of this House.
I should also like to say what an honour it is to discuss the question of a peace settlement in the Middle East in the presence of some of those who have it in their hands to bring about this historic development.
I am sure we would all want to pay tribute to the skilful and persistent diplomacy of President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeline Albright.
It is a great pleasure to see our own representative, who has done so much to ensure that the European Union's presence in the region is felt.
The Berlin European Council Declaration remains the position of the European Union.
President Arafat has received wise advice to postpone the planned declaration of an independent Palestinian state on 13 September.
We have a key role to play in Syria in terms of actively encouraging economic reform and modernisation in the interests of Syria and in the interests of regional stability.
I had an extremely good visit to Syria, albeit too brief, earlier in the year, at which we significantly moved forward our dialogue on economic issues and on the assistance we can provide.
The European Union will assist with the reconstruction of southern Lebanon as soon as the Commission conditions permit.
The Lebanese Government must maintain order in the south and in addition it must translate its generic aid requests into concrete and realistic proposals.
We will outline our strategies as soon as these conditions are met and, as many Members know, we have had an assessment mission in the area to see exactly what we can do on the ground as soon as possible.
It will not surprise the House to know that we intend to work in areas like mine clearance where we have so much experience, areas which are vital to the restoration of normal economic life and decent social conditions in South Lebanon.
At the same time as we are preparing for a possible role in implementing any peace agreement, we are also focusing on the regional scenario after a peace settlement.
When conflict is a thing of the past, it is important to recognise that a peace settlement would transform everybody's prospects.
Sustained economic growth and economic stability are the keys to regional peace and consolidation of that peace in the years ahead.
People are more likely to support peace if they feel that their living conditions are improving.
Disparities are growing both within the region and, as was said in the debate that we had yesterday on MEDA, between the region and the European Union.
In addition, the regional labour market will come under strong pressure because of high population growth resulting from the welcome incorporation of more women into the labour market and the future integration of Palestinian refugees into the economies of the region.
I referred to the interesting debate that we had yesterday evening on MEDA and our attempts to speed up and simplify the regulation so that we can deliver our assistance in the region much more rapidly.
The European Union as a whole, the Commission, Member States, and the EIB, are responsible for about 50% of all the economic assistance in the region.
Over the last few years our assistance in the region has been averaging about EUR 800 million, that is from the Commission and the EIB, about EUR 450 million from the Commission and the rest from the EIB.
That is a substantial investment in the future prosperity and well-being of the region, but I am still seeking to ensure that the resources available are spent more effectively and more rapidly.
In that document we will be stressing the vital significance of greater regional cooperation and more trade and cooperation between the countries to the south and not just between Europe and the countries of the South.
I repeat: this is clearly a historic opportunity to secure a peace that would bring prosperity as well as stability to our neighbours to the south.
We stand ready to help them both to achieve peace and to build on the foundations that a peace settlement would lay.
Madam President, since the creation of the State of Israel, we have surely never been so close to a lasting and stable peace agreement in the Middle East.
The withdrawal of the Israeli troops from southern Lebanon, the will demonstrated by the new Syrian President and the clear progress made at Camp David - as has been mentioned here this morning - seem to offer us a panorama in which peace is actually within reach.
Of course we offer our services by means of the European Union' s special envoy, Ambassador Moratinos, whom I welcome.
We undoubtedly offer a guarantee in terms of the future economic development of the region, which would no doubt result from the peace agreement, through our cooperation and investment, as Commissioner Patten has correctly reminded us.
However, we should ask ourselves whether this is worthy of the responsibility and aspirations of the European Union on an international level.
No group is offering greater support than the European People' s Party to the governments promoting the peace process, especially to the United States.
From this point of view we propose that next year, when we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Conference which gave rise to this peace process, the European Union should once again bring together, in a repeat of the Madrid meeting, the leaders who participated in that Conference.
Meanwhile, we should reaffirm the European Union' s full commitment to the peace process and our willingness to honour our historic, economic and also political responsibilities in the region.
I would ask the two Presidents to deliver a message to their people: they have come here and they have seen how the representatives of peoples who have been age-old enemies and who have waged war for centuries, can work together and in peace, and can share values.
Above all, I believe that we should point out the importance of what is at stake at the moment because, until now, there had been no real negotiation of the situation of the Palestinian refugees since 1948, the continuation of the Israeli settlements and the establishment of definitive borders.
As some experts have said, on religious issues there are no half measures, but, if we are talking about the religions of the Book, which preach the love of God and our fellow man, it must be possible to find a solution between people.
Lastly, Madam President, I believe that, from the point of view of European Union action, we must try to strengthen the Euro-Mediterranean process, bring Syria out of its isolation, strengthen the process in the whole of the region and, above all, send a message to the Middle East which indicates that the European Union, as a union of age-old enemies, wishes to participate fully in the creation of a shared peaceful future in the Middle East.
We all very much regret that the Camp David negotiations came to nothing.
As far as the European Union is concerned, we hope that it will speak with one voice and assume a more pro-active role - and I particularly refer to a more pro-active role in the political field - and will thus contribute to the peace process.
Madam President, I have been present in Jerusalem as a provisional member of Parliament' s delegation for relations with Israel.
At the same time, everyone appreciates that the UN decisions cannot directly be implemented by peaceful means.
The Palestinians are prepared to make concessions over territory.
It is therefore important that the EU should stick by the Berlin decision to recognise a Palestinian State without conditions as soon as the Palestinians see fit to declare such a State, to which they are entitled.
Madam President, my group asked for a major debate on the situation in the Middle East to be included in this part-session.
It also suggested that high-ranking Israeli and Palestinian leaders be invited jointly to the European Parliament.
We are therefore delighted by the initiatives taken in this direction and warmly welcome the speakers of the two assemblies who have honoured us with their presence.
I think the time is right to clearly reiterate the terms of the unequivocal declaration adopted by the Berlin European Council in March 1999, in which the Fifteen stated that they were ready to recognise a Palestinian State.
So let the European Union clearly reaffirm the position which it took in Berlin and encourage the Palestinians to make precisely this gesture.
I think that Europe' s third message should contain a guarantee that the future global agreement will be implemented to the end, unlike - alas - all the partial agreements which have succeeded each other since Oslo.
The United States alone cannot provide this guarantee.
Madam President, thank you very much indeed for arranging this very important debate at this particular time.
We should fully recognise that the Palestinians and the Israeli Government are now negotiating on bottom line issues, including the status of Jerusalem, the borders of the Palestinian State, the fate of Jewish settlements and the right of return of Palestinian refugees.
I very much hope that the Middle East will resume peace talks in the near future.
Permanent status negotiations resumed in September 1999.
EU Heads of State have affirmed on a number of occasions that the security of the Israeli and Palestinian people both collectively and individually must always be protected.
I support the principle of exchanging land for peace and the continuing and unqualified Palestinian right to self-determination.
I am calling on the Israeli Government and the Palestinian leadership to take the necessary steps to re-establish mutual confidence, accept the need to make concessions and focus on the overriding goal of achieving lasting peace and stability in the region.
The peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians are not the only matter up for discussion within the Middle East.
There has been peaceful progress on the Lebanese-Israeli border since the Lebanese Government gained authority within the region, and we all must certainly welcome the fact that southern Lebanon is now at peace.
The first step in the current peace process was taken when Israel and Egypt concluded the Camp David peace treaty in 1979.
We can all take solace from the fact that the key protagonists in this difficult political equation are now addressing the most vexed and thorny bottom line issues that have to be resolved if a permanent peace agreement is to be put in place in the Middle East.
In popular speech, Arafat has inherited this dubious Arab title of honour from Saddam Hussein.
It is exactly this Palestinian homage after Camp David 2000 which shocked Amos Oz, a recognised Israeli champion of peace and noted author.
Earlier this week, Arafat reiterated this Palestinian political claim in the context of the meeting of the Arab League in Cairo: "We will not accept an agreement without obtaining all the rights we are entitled to pursuant to international resolutions" .
So this includes UN Resolution 194 which stipulates the right to return on the part of Palestinian refugees.
Madam President, as a representative of a Christian political party, I am not an unquestioning defender of Israel' s political interests.
Madam President, Europe has a special historical responsibility for the peace process in the Middle East.
The fact that the Foreign Minister himself responded to the last peace negotiations by stepping down, serves as a reminder to us that above all in Israel, which is the stable democracy in the region, every step taken by the politicians must have the backing of the majority of the Israeli people.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, this is not the first time that the House has concluded that the situation in the Middle East is critical.
It is critical both for the Middle East itself and for the European Union because, apart from all the important issues which the peace process encompasses, it represents a new challenge for the common European foreign policy.
In other words, the European Union must play a more active, more systematic and more intensive role in projects in the region and, of course, in the peace process.
Let us not forget that the highly important UN Resolution 242 was devised mainly by Europe.
Mr President, will the United Nations Millennium Summit which took place this week be the last chance summit?
Six weeks after talks broke down at Camp David, Bill Clinton is due to meet Ehud Barak and Yasser Arafat in New York tomorrow, after a month of intensive, albeit less media-attracting negotiation.
Everyone has his or her own interpretation of the outcome of Camp David and of the responsibilities incumbent upon either side.
The gulf is still wide, although certain historical taboos have been broken.
It is our historical and moral duty as well as our desire to become a full political partner very quickly, tomorrow if possible, and the simultaneous presence here of Avraham Burg, the Speaker of the Knesset, and Ahmed Qurie, the Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council, both of whom I welcome, cannot but augur well in this respect.
Mr President, I arrived back yesterday from Palestine and Israel, where over a thousand Italians - representatives of district, provincial and regional councils - have been spending a week building peace bridges between Palestinians and Israelis and setting up projects for cooperation with the Palestinian people.
Jerusalem is at the centre of the conflict, and it is one of the key factors in the peace process.
For the Israelis, before Camp David, no part of Jerusalem could be touched.
Yet the Israeli negotiators are still extremely uncompromising, for the problem is not that the Palestinians do not want to make concessions but that they have the right to the return of the territories occupied in 1967 which is enshrined in the UN resolutions.
As Commissioner Patten said, the Israeli Government has many times failed in its obligations following the Oslo negotiations: they have not adhered to the timetable laid down in the agreements for the withdrawal of troops from the occupied territories.
However, a genuine tragedy for the peace process and the future of the Palestinian State is the continued increase in Israeli settlements: under the Barak Government, over 41 000 settlers moved into in the occupied territories.
It is on everyone's lips, but peace can only be achieved if each person is allowed to exercise his right of citizenship in his own free State.
As Europeans, we must make every possible endeavour - over and above the economic efforts which we are already making, we must increase our political role - to ensure that the law prevails and that the Palestinians are able to live in their democratic State, which we must recognise as we recognise the Israeli State, so that Jerusalem becomes an open city, a city of the world, the capital city of two peoples and two States.
As for weapons of mass destruction, I agree that somebody like Saddam Hussein should not have control of them, but there are others in the region who should not either.
The market in weapons is now so competitive that some of the most horrific despots are getting bargain basement deals for weapons of mass destruction.
They believe that the Oslo negotiations and the various Camp David discussions would have conferred legitimacy on such a step.
It is a unique problem which requires a unique response.
Jerusalem should not be regarded as an Arab city or a Jewish city, a Christian city or a Muslim city.
Just as we were delighted to remove Berlin walls in Europe, we do not want to see similar walls erected in Jerusalem.
Mr President, as far as the Middle East and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process is concerned, I have always counted myself among those in the House who say that it is up to the people of the region and their leaders to define the terms of their peaceful coexistence, just as it is up to them to make the efforts and sacrifices needed on both sides in order to do so.
As a European, I set great store by the Euro-Mediterranean balance and if, like many others, I have somewhat regretted the European Union' s lack of political clout in this process, I have likewise always refused to sit here in Parliament and play at being teacher, to coin a phrase.
That is why I am in total agreement with the position stated by Pierre Moscovici and what I would say today is that we shall not help to bring about peace by taking sides in the debate and in the difficult negotiations under way.
It can be summarised in three points: we want a peace agreement in the Middle East, we shall support and guarantee a peace agreement once it has been signed and we shall use every possible means, including but not only financial means, to help ensure that it is implemented.
To conclude, we know full well that peace is always a difficult process.
However, we feel - and here we agree with the report - that this peace agreement which is being drawn up has increased the possibilities and that there is a way forward.
We feel that everything that can be possibly be done now and in the future, including in terms of equal opportunities, must be done and followed up: the Palestinian people has the right to self-determination, without prejudice to the rights of the State of Israel.
Europe must become a political body and negotiate to achieve peace in this case as well, doing everything in its power to ensure that lasting peace is established in the Mediterranean.
I will illustrate the importance of this with a historical reference: in the 1980 Venice Declaration, proposed by Ministers Genscher and Colombo, the Community first of all established the need for a solution to be found to the Palestinian question through negotiations.
Following his visit to Rome in 1982 for the Conference of the Interparliamentary Union, things at last started to move and not only did Arafat obtain his visa but - following the preparatory work carried out in Oslo - the United States started to play an active part in the Palestinian question.
By an International Statute I do not mean that the city would have an international administration, but merely that, as an international community, we must direct this initiative so that the statutory instrument - irrespective of who has territorial sovereignty over Jerusalem - commits all parties to a system of international control, so that every believer - whether Christian, Jew or Muslim - is, at last, guaranteed access to the holy sites.
Mr President, Arabs and Palestinians have committed terrible historical errors and injustices, but they have also paid the price for them.
You have all naturally focused in your interventions on the peace process and the negotiations, which are without doubt the key to progress in this region of the Middle East.
And so, I repeat, we have an historic opportunity to put an end to this conflict which has lasted so very long.
Having said which, every historic opportunity has its historic risk.
President Mubarak was in Paris at the end of last week and I think he used an excellent phrase which sums up the situation perfectly: 'peace is now or never' .
We can always wish for a more active Europe.
The European Union intervenes in support of the negotiations.
Secondly, the European Union makes a contribution to the debate on issues connected with the negotiations.
There is all the action which Commissioner Patten summarised.
There is also the Barcelona process, which offers us a particularly suitable framework, provided that we make full use of its potential.
We sincerely hope, however, that developments in the peace process will make it possible to hold a meeting not just at ministerial level, but also at Head of State and Government level in order to set the seal, as it were, on the emergence of a new era in the Middle East.
Our democratic values, our common will to foster peace and security in the world and our history guide us towards such a role.
The Community' s economic clout, its primary role in promoting development, and its privileged links with numerous countries or groups of countries also allow us to take on such a role.
The French Presidency' s first objective is to give new momentum to the accession negotiations.
The prospect of enlargement is the basic question which we Europeans have to answer, the huge challenge which faces us over coming years.
That is why the French Presidency is determined to ensure that the IGC is a success and conclude 'a nice treaty in Nice' , in order to prevent any delays to enlargement and ensure that we can welcome the first candidate countries to a Union with more efficient institutions.
All in all, our objective, in close consultation with the Commission and Commissioner Verheugen, is to arrive in Nice at an overall vision of the state of negotiations, thereby efficiently guiding the work of the following presidencies and preparing the way for the completion of negotiations.
The various reports currently being examined in our committees and the debate on enlargement planned for October will give us further food for thought.
Hence the main deadlines during our presidency will be as follows: A ministerial negotiating session will be held with each of the 12 candidates either on 21 November, for some of the candidates, or on 5 December, preceded by two meetings at ambassadorial level in the autumn.
As far as the Fifteen are concerned, we shall be organising a politically-orientated debate at the General Affairs Council on 20 November on the basis of the overall report and the individual progress reports on each candidate country which the Commission is due to submit to the Council at the beginning of November.
Finally, we shall be convening the European Conference twice, once in Sochaux on 23 November for the ministers of European affairs of the Fifteen and ministers from the candidate countries, and once in Nice on 7 December for the Heads of State and Government, at the opening of the Biarritz Summit.
The Union indicated in Helsinki that it would be ready to welcome the first new members on 1 January 2003, as soon as the procedure for ratifying what we hope will be the future Nice Treaty has been completed but, as the Heads of State and Government stressed at the Feira Summit, the countries in question must not only transpose the Community acquis, but more important still, they must be able to implement and really apply it.
This is naturally a very complicated and, as we well know, a difficult task for the candidate countries, but the Community is already helping by supporting the efforts of each country.
These efforts are vital in order to complete the enlargement process under way in a serious and controlled manner and thus enable the most advanced countries to accede as quickly as possible.
As far as Turkey is concerned, I would just like to say briefly that recognition of its candidate status in Helsinki marked an important step which my country, France, supported.
The presidency will work in the Council to have the accession partnership for this country adopted and will continue to conduct a detailed analysis of the acquis.
It will also ensure that the Union honours its financial aid commitments with a view to setting up a single framework covering all aid instruments to Turkey.
It goes without saying, however, that accession negotiations will be quite out of the question until such time as Turkey complies with the Copenhagen criteria, especially the democratic criteria, although any progress in this direction will of course encourage us to adopt the measures which I have just mentioned.
The French Presidency' s second objective is to push ahead with the European common security and defence policy by implementing the decisions taken in Helsinki and Feira.
The Union now has the instruments which it needs in order to apply a common foreign policy.
Our objective, which the crises in Bosnia and, more recently, in Kosovo have taught us, is to provide a global response to the manifold and extraordinarily complex dimensions of today' s crises: not just ethnic crises, but also sociological, administrative, judicial, security-related and military crises.
In other words, the French Presidency hopes to take part in an extremely ambitious project which will of necessity take several years to complete.
The three main issues are as follows: as regards countries' abilities to meet the objectives, the commitment conference which we shall be holding on 20 November will give each Member State the chance to state how it intends to help achieve the overall objective defined in Helsinki; as regards the permanent political and military institutions, our presidency has to prepare for the transition to the final, operational stage which will allow the Union to manage a crisis in all its dimensions as quickly as possible.
Finally, we need to implement the Feira decisions on relations with NATO and with third counties in connection with military crisis management and the continuing work to strengthen civil crisis management instruments.
The French Presidency' s third priority will be to develop strategic partnerships between the Union and its neighbours and the main regional blocs.
As a sign of the importance which the Union attaches to developing relations with the Balkans region, which we wish to see enjoying peace and democracy, France has proposed that Croatia host a summit on 24 November with the countries of the former Yugoslavia which, although at varying stages, have made the most progress with their democratic development.
Developing the strategic partnership with Russia and the Ukraine is another priority of the French Presidency, which is due to host the EU/Ukraine Summit in Paris in 10 days' time and the EU/Russia Summit on 30 October.
The framework for action by the French Presidency of the Union vis-à-vis Russia is defined by the conclusions adopted by the Feira European Council, which offered to support the efforts being made by President Putin and the new Russian Government to modernise and reform Russia.
The Council reiterated in July that only a political solution would bring about a lasting settlement of this conflict.
Finally, despite the uncertainty hanging over the future of the peace process in the Middle East, which we have just debated, developing our Euro-Mediterranean relations is one of the French Presidency' s main concerns.
We hope to take general stock of the Barcelona process and assess cooperation under the MEDA programme during the ministerial meeting in Marseilles on 16 November and, if circumstances allow, at the summit which may then be organised for the following day in order to define guidelines to give new impetus to Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
During this meeting, as far as the peace process is concerned, the European Union should play a major role in supporting the two sides and the agreements which they conclude.
Finally, the presidency is keen to implement the Common Strategy on the Mediterranean adopted in Feira and ensure that the new MEDA regulation is adopted.
As far as the association agreements are concerned, let me repeat that it hopes to sign the agreement with Egypt and achieve substantial progress in negotiations with Lebanon, Syria and Algeria.
Beyond its immediate environment, the French Presidency will ensure that it develops political dialogue with the main regional blocs.
A summit will be held in Seoul on 20 and 21 October and we also hope to resume the dialogue between the EU and ASEAN.
History will record two important summits with key countries in the region during the French Presidency.
The summit with Japan on 19 July decided to start revising the 1991 declaration and preparing an action plan for adoption at the summit in 2001.
The other summit, with China, will be held in Beijing on 23 October.
France has also suggested that its partners consider the future of relations with Cuba.
The Union - as I have said - has numerous instruments at its disposal which allow it to influence developments in international relations.
Thus, its diplomatic presence in the world, both that of the Fifteen and of the Commission, is unique both in terms of staff numbers and geographical coverage.
Similarly, the Union now constitutes an active and coherent group in the United Nations, where its points of view are represented in every forum.
Finally, its financial resources, our financial resources, are considerable.
However, we all know the weaknesses in the Union' s external action: lack of visibility, inadequate coordination on occasions, flexibility which leaves much to be desired, too little influence in international institutions, especially Bretton Woods.
The ministers of foreign affairs of the Fifteen therefore opened a debate at the instigation of Hubert Védrine during the recent informal meeting at Evian, based on the excellent work presented by Mr Patten on behalf of the Commission and by the Secretary-General of the Council to the High Representative for the CFSP, Javier Solana, who was also present in Evian.
At central level, this must be done by reaffirming the coordinating role of the General Affairs Council in order to improve the coherence of external action in all its aspects.
We intend to cooperate in this and many other areas with both the Commission, which will be the main driving force in this area, as it is in every other area, and with the European Parliament.
I want to congratulate the French Presidency without reservation on the priority that they have given to this extremely important practical issue.
Just before the summer break, as some Members may have read in the newspapers, we discussed in the Commission the demands, the constraints and priorities of the European Union's external relations, our understanding of what should be the Commission's external role and some of the problems we encounter in performing it.
One of the five objectives of the European Union, as set out in Article 2 of the Treaty, is that it should assert its identity on the international scene.
It reflects first of all the European Union's political interests, including a growing role in the area of security, which the President-in-Office referred to in his interesting remarks.
It reflects our responsibilities for external assistance which have grown exponentially in recent years.
The European Union and its Member States now provide 55% of total international aid and two thirds of global non-refundable aid.
It is worth remembering that less than 20 years ago relations with Greece, Spain and Portugal were external affairs for the European Community as it then was.
Our prime task in the European Union's external relations is surely the projection of stability, both in our immediate neighbourhood and beyond.
A more stable neighbourhood and a more stable world guarantee a more stable European Union.
The skills that the European Union has brought to its own development are skills which offer an example and a model elsewhere in the world.
Foreign policy is and will remain fundamentally a matter for national governments, in other words for Member States.
That is why the Union chose to move on from political cooperation, why the Treaty of Amsterdam created the new high representative for CFSP and why there is an important role for the Commission and for the European Parliament in trying to make a Common - I stress common not single - Foreign and Security Policy more effective.
The new structures, procedures and instruments of CFSP recognise the need to harness the strengths of the European Community in the service of European foreign policy.
It would be absurd to divorce European foreign policy from the institutions which have been given responsibility for most of the instruments for its accomplishment, for external trade, external assistance, many of the external aspects of justice and home affairs and so on.
That is why the Commission participates fully in the decision-making process in the Council, that is why we have a shared right of initiative - not a sole but a shared right of initiative - in these issues.
There needs to be a sensible and sensitive partnership in the external field between the institutions of the Union, including the European Parliament, and its Member States.
We should be engaged in a common effort to make sure that world's largest trading group also makes its presence felt politically.
It is very easy in the external field, perhaps more than any other, to make grandiloquent statements about Great Issues such as peace in the Middle East, a stable and productive relationship with Russia, international development.
Apart from the detailed foreign policy issues on our agenda like the situation in the Middle East, we were looking at how we decide our overall annual priorities in external relations and how we apportion the budget.
As I said before, when I made a presentation to the Council on the budget and on our priorities in May it was the first time this had ever happened.
Earlier this year, as well as that presentation to foreign ministers, I hope that I gave the European Parliament exactly the same candid presentation on our external relations budget.
That is important in the Council and it is important in the Parliament because you are the budgetary authority.
We cannot spend more than you allow us to but in that case you should not ask us to do more than is possible and criticise us when we have to make judgments about priorities.
Thirdly, I am working with Javier Solana to create sensible structures and the right division of responsibilities between the Commission and the High Representative for the CFSP.
The institutional relationship between the Commission and the High Representative is evolving, as is the precise role of the European Parliament in the CFSP.
One example is conflict prevention, which may involve issues that are not part of the normal diplomatic agenda.
In the discussions we had in the G8 foreign ministers' meetings I was struck by the extent to which the foreign and security policy agenda is changing and bringing together disparate issues in which the Community has almost unique competence, for example in the environmental field.
There was a lot of discussion about better coordination, better coordination between Member States and all the institutions of the European Union, which I know is a serious priority of the French presidency and one which I totally share.
We must ensure - and Mr Patten has the right approach in proposing the reorganisation of external assistance - that we strengthen the power to act of our Community bodies, and that we improve the way in which work is carried out there and make it more effective.
On the other hand though, we must also guarantee the same level of transparency and control that the public expects from national governments and national parliaments.
There was a formal delegation which I chaired from Parliament to the USA in June and there is an understandable confusion when another group of MEPs some three weeks later arrive in the USA, to all intents and purposes also a European Parliament delegation.
We were merely visiting the United States as a group organised from within our own national groups.
We represented the views of our national parties over there as well as the views expressed within the European Parliament.
I am very sorry, Mrs Read, but I cannot allow you to speak again, as we are already running late.
But we need more if we want to give our Mediterranean policy a new lease of life: we need to involve the people more by supporting decentralised cooperation, we need to improve the way in which the cultural and human dimensions are integrated, open the free trade zone to agricultural produce and monitor and support fundamental freedoms.
I fully support the rapporteur' s proposal that an annual report be drafted on human rights in the Mediterranean countries.
It is also established (in paragraph O) that the purpose is not to create a single diplomatic service for the EU to replace the foreign services of the Member States.
This draft initiative, however, forms part of a creeping and continuing change in the nature of the European Union.
In the 1950s, the existence of the forerunners of the European Union was justified in terms of voluntary cooperation between European states and peoples in order to regulate a number of cross-border issues of mutual interest.
My party, the Socialist Party in the Netherlands, considers the return of such a superstate as a threat to democracy, public services, peace and refugees.
I am voting against this new step in the wrong direction.
The common instrument is supposed to produce the common conscience, the common will, the common responsibility.
It is the complementarity of this individual expertise which can be used for a clearly-defined common objective which really serves European interests.
In fact, we are eroding national will, despite the fact that it is the diplomatic driving force behind Europe and, at the same time, we express surprise when the increasing number of instruments and declarations is reflected merely by an absence of content and a general lack of interest.
The only positive aspect of this report might be its desire to rationalise the organisation and improve the professionalism of the European Commission delegations in third countries.
Experience has shown that these delegations are not always up to their real job, which is to implement Community programmes and agreements and monitor them on the ground.
This last point apart, you will understand that we obviously did not vote in favour of the other, totally surrealist proposals in this initiative report.
I cannot therefore vote in favour of Mr Galeote Quecedo' s report.
Moreover, I would call upon the Commission to increase its expenditure, for it is extremely important for Europe to maintain a presence in the world and to give a high profile to its presence through, among other things, a symbol and greater publicity of this important activity.
Mr President, a single example, taken from the explanatory statement, illustrates just how laughable the report on the humanitarian activities of the European Union is.
The report cites the absence of operational tools, especially helicopters, as the reason for the lack of international aid in general and the lack of aid from the European institutions in particular, in dealing with the floods in Mozambique, whereas - and who could forget? - there was no lack of helicopters, aeroplanes, every type of transportation equipment and even means of destruction when it came to intervening in Yugoslavia or Iraq.
The only conclusion to be drawn from this is that the major powers, which are capable of mobilising huge resources in order to impose their hegemony on the rest of the world, are not prepared to make the slightest effort when it comes to saving human lives.
This report is fully in keeping with the philosophy of our institution, which has always made its voice heard in the least well off countries, through its opinions, its resolutions or specific action to improve and develop humanitarian aid.
Since the European Community Humanitarian Office (ECHO) was created at the beginning of the 1990s, Europe has taken its place as the biggest donor in the world.
However, despite legitimate efforts driven by historical links between certain European countries and developing countries, we are forced to admit that poverty is increasing throughout the world.
Without the emergency aid provided by ECHO in order to deal with the natural disasters or serious crises which regularly hit the most vulnerable people on our planet, I hardly dare imagine the situation which we would have to deal with today.
In it, she voices her belief that it would have come to riots in Austria had the 14 EU States not imposed sanctions against Austria.
I think that you will understand that confusion may well arise when another group of MEPs arrives in the USA some three weeks later as, to all intents and purposes, a second European Parliament delegation.
Could you also ascertain whether the Members concerned had a formal invitation from relevant bodies in the USA and intend to declare their visit in the Members' register of interests?
Mr Gorostiaga, if you feel that you have been misquoted, you have hereby been given the opportunity to report this.
Mr Poettering, Parliament is sovereign.
EU external action priorities (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the declarations of the Council and the Commission on EU external action priorities.
The Socialist Group has a need to recognise for itself that Europe' s position on the world stage has undergone a dramatic change since the fall of the Berlin Wall, when traditionally, foreign policy was adopted by national states which continue to play a major role, of course.
In this respect, it is essential to regard the fight against poverty as a key contribution in our policy, rather than according it a minor position within foreign policy.
Mr Patten, Mr Nielson, ladies and gentlemen, and the Commissioner for External Relations, you could, in fact, extract new value, new quality and effectiveness from this, working in tandem with Parliament.
Mr President, I welcome the resolve that was shown here today by the French Presidency and the Commission in placing emphasis on enlargement as the key priority for the external action of the Union.
The Commission is right to demand its right of association under the Treaty and, through that, for this Parliament to demand its right of accountability and scrutiny.
Let me recall one of the results of these inquiries: in the past five years the average delay in the disbursement of committed funds has increased from three years to four-and-a-half years.
For certain programmes the backlog of outstanding commitments is equivalent to more than eight-and-a-half years of payments.
It amounts to a form of intergovernmental conspiracy against citizens' right to know.
I want to hear from the Council today what role it feels it is prepared to accord to this House in terms of the scrutiny and accountability of issues which may be intergovernmental but which cannot stand on one pillar alone?
Mr President, as the European Union assumes new powers we might expect that transparency in this matter and parliamentarian monitoring would increase at the same rate.
The Commission must have a strong role to play in this process.
But the Council' s decision seems to be leading to a situation now where the whole development of the security and defence policy in the political sphere can no longer be properly monitored, being, as it were, beyond that.
Nevertheless, I think that, because of the expectations that are created, because of the European Union' s responsibilities and even because of the new problems facing developing countries, for all these reasons, taking account of these very important parts of the world must be a major factor in determining our actions.
In politics, we never use the word "never" .
I should like quickly to ask the President-in-Office two questions.
What would be the point of having more than 40 000 officials in more than 1 500 diplomatic missions between the Commission and the Member States - twice the number the United States has - if our activity really is not sufficiently efficient, coherent or visible?
Mr Moscovici, in the coming months we will have to make important decisions in the field of the nascent, embryonic defence policy.
The incompatibility and heterogeneity of the Member States' investments in this field - the national views - make this such a difficult debate that we will have to consider other added problems such as interinstitutional disputes.
This dispute between the institutions must be resolved, and the European Parliament must not simply be serving at the table, but it also wishes to take its place in the kitchen.
In general we favour a strong European Union presence on the international scene.
But in this short speech, I want to focus on enlargement.
Having said that, we are conscious of the problems due to public opinion both within the fifteen Member States and in the candidate countries.
The European Parliament will play an important part in this.
Commissioner Patten, the Vice-President of the Commission, reacted to this in his own way and remarked that the European Union is in fact extremely resourceful.
European responsibilities can certainly not be divided among fifteen to thirty or perhaps more Member States.
This is not about a simple bureaucratic division of powers between institutions or a power-crazed Parliament or such like.
My own experience when, in a responsible post within the UN' s development programme, I sought cooperation with the Union at national level with a view to assembling and coordinating forces in different areas was that, as a rule, it did not work, either because almost every decision in the EU' s case needed to be taken in Brussels and also because of the lack of qualified staff within the area concerned.
Working towards constitutionalisation of the European Union, one benefit of which would be institutional citizenship in international bodies, the creation of a European diplomacy as per the Galeote report, the cultural concern which we must take on board in order to avoid fresh incidents of colonialism, the support and valuing of democratic processes which have also been established in certain countries such as Iran, and the regulation of relations with NGOs, which could become the operational arm of the European Union - these options could all contribute to an effective political initiative for developing countries, an initiative which would assert the supremacy of European civilisation in terms of a quest for solidarity to improve quality of life and bear witness to respect for human dignity, celebrating it in every corner of the world.
Mr President-in-Office, this morning you mentioned the report Parliament has asked me to present on Turkey' s accession process.
Like the Commission, Parliament salutes Turkey' s endeavours in drawing up a programme for developing its legal arsenal to comply more closely with the requirements of the European Union, especially in terms of respect for human rights.
Europe is resolute in recognising that need for identity, aware that its diversity is the source of its wealth.
That is the spirit in which the Union proposes to help Turkey find a solution to the Kurdish problem.
I am also concerned by the extent to which many want to define European foreign policy in terms of its distinctiveness from the United States policies, sometimes even deliberate hostility to the United States positions.
The best forum for dealing with security policy issues is NATO rather than the European Union and the danger is that the common European security and defence policy, with its emphasis on an autonomous capability, will undermine the alliance which served us so well during more threatening times.
Mr President, some of us have asked the President-in-Office and Commissioner Patten specific questions.
Financial year 2001 The next item is the submission by the Council of the draft budget for the financial year 2001.
As you know, my colleague Florence Parly chaired that Council, but unfortunately she cannot be here today, so please accept her apologies.
First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the excellent work done by the Portuguese Presidency ahead of the Council' s adoption, at first reading, of the draft budget for 2001.
This year, the provisions of the new interinstitutional agreement of 6 May 1999 have taken full effect.
The first session under the trialogue procedure bringing together the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission was held on 6 July, here in Strasbourg, and demonstrated its usefulness in terms of better mutual understanding of our respective positions and priorities.
The conciliation meeting between the European Parliament and the Council, which took place on 20 July, was, I think, very positive.
In particular, it became possible to find a great many points of agreement between institutions and make good progress on potential sources of disagreement.
I hope we can continue to work in the same spirit and produce a budget for the European Communities for the financial year 2001 which gives us the resources to meet the priorities and challenges the European Union is about to face.
Firstly, I want to set out the major guidelines which have determined the way the Council has drawn up this draft budget before going into more detail - though not at length - on the various categories.
The Council has also paid special attention to the development of payment appropriations, setting their increase compared with 2000 at a maximum rate of 3.5%, which in particular takes account of the capacity for implementation and the probable rate of payments entailed by the balances to be settled.
Finally, this draft budget remains totally in keeping with the interinstitutional agreement of 6 May 1999on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure.
Those are the bases for the draft budget for the financial year 2001, drawn up by the Council on 20 July, to provide for EUR 95.9 billion in commitment appropriations, an increase of 2.7% over the budget for 2000, and EUR 92.5 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 3.5% over the budget for 2000.
The Council hopes to convert this priority into figures with a total appropriation 30% higher than in 2000.
The EUR 614 million adopted by the Council will ensure funding of all foreseeable needs.
I would add - and of course this is important in our discussions - that it has been possible to earmark such a significant amount without having to revise the financial perspectives aimed at strengthening category 4, as proposed by the Commission.
The Council has also ensured the funding of all the European Union' s other policy priorities.
Without launching into an exhaustive description of the Council' s draft budget, which is in any case the subject of the detailed explanatory statement circulated to you, I would now like to present the Council' s 2001 draft budget decisions in a rather more specific way, that is, by category of expenditure.
First, as regards category 1 of the financial perspectives relating to agricultural expenditure, the draft budget provides for an increase in commitment appropriations of 6.3% in relation to 2000 in order to fund the CAP reform agreed by the European Council in Berlin in March 1999.
Nevertheless, for sub-category 1a of the financial perspectives, covering CAP market expenditure, the Council decided on figures some EUR 330 million lower in total than those proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft.
The savings made, in comparison with the Commission' s preliminary draft budget, do not prevent the Council providing for an increase, which also responds to Parliament' s concerns, in two budgetary lines: for the distribution of milk to schoolchildren, which I know has been the subject of massive correspondence for more than a year now, and promotion of product quality.
For expenditure related to rural development, taking account of the delays which have built up in the approval and implementation of national rural development plans, the Council felt that a margin of EUR 225 million, under the ceiling of sub-category 1b of the financial perspectives, could be earmarked.
The development of these appropriations, however, shows an increase of 4.6% compared with 2000, an increase which reflects the priority the Council accords the appropriations allocated to what now constitutes a second pillar of the CAP.
However, I want to specify that the Council is, of course, prepared to re-examine agricultural expenditure this autumn in the light of the content of the letter of amendment the Commission will be presenting and to reconsider, at that time, developments in market and rural development expenditure.
As regards structural actions, covered by category 2 of the financial perspectives, the Council has budgeted this whole category as commitment appropriations in line with the conclusions of the Berlin European Council of March 1999 and, in addition, it has renewed all the payment appropriations entered in 2000.
But it hoped to increase the Cohesion Fund allocations by some EUR 360 million over provision in the Commission' s preliminary draft, to take account of the forecasts for implementation of these credits in the Member States.
On category 3 of the financial perspectives relating to the funding of internal policies, the Council was primarily intent on ensuring the appropriate funding for the multiannual programmes while respecting, where applicable, the programming decided jointly with Parliament.
As regards the extension of the 'Employment' initiative, agreed by Parliament to strengthen the employment dynamic begun by the Amsterdam European Council, the conciliation meeting between the European Parliament and the Council held on 20 July demonstrated that this subject represents a priority for both our institutions for the 2001 budget, especially in terms of building on the conclusions of the Feira European Council.
However, the Council is waiting for the assessment of the previous initiative soon to be delivered by the Commission with a view to seeking agreement with Parliament about its funding in the context of a global agreement during the second reading.
Furthermore, it has identified a precautionary margin of EUR 208 million more than the one in the Commission' s preliminary draft budget, the objective being to have enough room for manoeuvre over and above a necessary margin under the ceiling of category 3 to deal with the new priorities shared by the Council and by Parliament, such as the 'employment' initiative I mentioned earlier.
I now come to the financing of the European Union external actions covered by category 4 of the financial perspectives.
The EUR 614 million adopted by the Council will be enough to finance all the foreseeable needs.
This figure is based on the only evaluation of needs currently available, set out in the 1999 World Bank report on rebuilding Kosovo.
Wishing to be pragmatic, the Council is renewing but not increasing the appropriations intended for Serbia, as it is not yet eligible for Community assistance beyond the aid for democracy and civil society included in this envelope.
On the other hand, the Council has kept to the Commission' s preliminary draft for the vast majority of the other cooperation programmes.
However I want to emphasise, as regards the MEDA programme, that the draft budget provides for an amount of EUR 701 million which is higher than the annual average allocation over the period 1995-1999.
The reduction of EUR 150 million made by the Council in comparison with what the Commission is asking for, takes account of the stock of still unpaid commitments still on this programme, and that represents several years of implementation.
I take this opportunity to remind you of the Council' s determination to contribute to better management of the programme, an indispensable prior condition, in our view, to enhancing our efforts.
Despite this reduction - motivated by the need to reabsorb the outstanding balance - the MEDA programme naturally remains very important to the Council.
The French Presidency' s objective is to achieve the adoption of the new multiannual regulation for MEDA soon and it will in particular be listening to the European Parliament on this subject.
However we have not followed up the Commission' s proposal for a revision of the financial perspectives, transferring these appropriations to category 7, and we have kept them in category 4.
Finally, I want to express my satisfaction that agreement was reached at the conciliation meeting between the European Parliament and the Council on 20 July on the amount of the appropriations to be included for the CFSP, as well as the transfer of the administrative expenses for CFSP special representatives, to the Council' s budget, in accordance with the institutional agreement of 1999.
This agreement has given rise to the drafting of two joint declarations, one of which specifies that the sums included in the Council' s budget under the heading of CFSP administrative expenses should take account of their impact on the general position for category 5, while the other commits the Council to ensuring that the estimates for administrative costs anticipated for each new CFSP decision are transmitted in good time to the other branch of the budgetary authority.
As you can appreciate, the Council has therefore tried to fund the various priorities in the field of European Union external actions appropriately and in doing so it has earmarked a margin of EUR 184 million under the ceiling of category 4 of the financial perspectives.
In drawing up its draft budget for the administrative expenditure covered by category 5 of the financial perspectives, the Council has been concerned to stabilise current expenditure, while taking account of the exceptional needs of the institutions, especially as regards staff for the Anti-fraud Office and the Court of Justice.
The Council is ready to do whatever is necessary to examine this letter of amendment so that its incidence can be taken into account as from first reading by the European Parliament.
To that end, there is a margin of EUR 113 million under the ceiling of category 5 of the financial perspectives.
For payment appropriations, the Council has adjusted the Commission' s preliminary draft budget figure downward by EUR 300 million.
In line with the logic prevailing for the other categories, the Council has taken maximum account of the substantial underspend of these appropriations in 2000.
Despite this reduction compared with the Commission' s preliminary draft, the pre-accession payment appropriations recorded a strong increase of 10.8% compared with 2000, which again reflects the importance accorded this expenditure as absolutely vital to the proper preparation of our major political aim, the enlargement, a priority shared by the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission.
Before I end, I would like to take this opportunity to say how pleased I am about the agreement reached, at the conciliation meeting between the European Parliament and the Council on 20 July, on a statement on financial programming.
Under the terms of this joint declaration, the Commission will now be obliged to evaluate the financial consequences of each of its new proposals, in particular for categories 3 and 4 of the financial perspectives.
I am sure that will be a fundamental factor in clarifying the decisions of the budgetary authority.
In any case I hope it gives you a good foundation for starting your work on the budget and that it will contribute to the establishment of a budget for 2001 which respects the priorities of each of the institutions, one which is satisfactory in terms of our joint mission, fulfilling our responsibilities towards Europe and its peoples.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you will shortly be adopting two regulations that are highly significant in budgetary terms, one being the regulation on budgetary discipline in the agricultural sector, and the other being the regulation on own resources, that is to say, the financing of the budget.
However, the Commission takes a dim view of the outcome of the Council' s discussions on Budget 2001.
Indeed, all the appropriations for Kosovo have in fact been tied up already.
We find ourselves in a situation where we are competing in political terms with the dictator Milosevic, and we must convince the people that the European Union is willing to provide assistance.
Another word on foreign policy: the Budget Council has cut the funding for the Mediterranean programme - which is also something you mentioned - by EUR 150 million.
Putting these cuts into effect would no longer just be a budgetary policy measure though, it would also constitute a change in the foreign policy in this field, a renunciation of the Barcelona process.
We have now submitted a letter of amendment containing two key points: firstly a request for 400 new posts for the Commission with effect from the year 2001, and secondly, budgetary measures which will enable us to do without the vast majority of Technical Assistance Offices, as per Parliament' s request, and, in particular, that of the Committee on Budgets.
The Commission has estimated that we need 1254 new posts for key activities and political priorities.
We can create a vast number of these 1254 new posts through reallocation, which will mean requesting a total of 717 new posts - 400 in the year 2001 and 317 in the year 2002 - particularly if we are to strengthen the areas of external assistance, health and consumer protection and environmental policy, as well as justice and internal affairs.
In addition, we have proposed a one-off early retirement scheme for 600 posts, organised in such a way as to have no impact on the budget, which would drastically reduce the need for new posts.
Mr President, can I first of all thank the President-in-Office for his opening remarks and especially his remarks about the good working relationship that we have had between the Parliament and the Council.
I thank the French Presidency and the staff of the French permanent representation in Brussels.
The downside starts with the things I said before we had the conciliation, during the conciliation and now after Council has voted and produced its draft budget.
As far as we are concerned, the Interinstitutional Agreement and Article 20 stipulate that once the Commission had made that proposal, our two institutions were duty bound to actually discuss that proposal.
I will reiterate another thing I said: Parliament is not a bit part player in this process, it has a valid role to play.
The biggest disappointment was on category 4 and especially the western Balkans.
Parliament has sent a special delegation to Kosovo to look at its needs.
Yet the Council comes up with a figure of EUR 614 million and if we look at the explanatory memorandum from the Council that is the figure in the light of the international financial institutions' estimates.
We have a situation where foreign ministers are saying one thing and finance ministers are saying another thing and that does not help anyone.
The ideal position for the Council is to have no payments whatsoever, but you have some obligations in this matter.
The disabled games are held a month after the normal Olympics, which means that they will take place in Athens sometime in October or November 2004.
Whilst we have been awaiting the amending letter from the Commission on its staffing needs, we see that the Council has reduced the Commission's administrative expenditure by EUR 25 million.
That is on top of the EUR 14 million announced by the Commission after publication of the PDB.
So our two institutions need to sit down and talk this through.
We need to agree on a real assessment of the Commission's needs.
If we want the Commission to do the job which we are always asking it to do, then at least in the three institutions we need to be clear about what we are asking it to do and what staffing levels are required.
As to what is next, we in Parliament need to make some hard decisions, not least on the letter of amendment and especially category IV.
What is contained within the Notenboom procedure could actually relieve our plight next year.
If you can front-load the areas of concern this year and we can carry over into next year or at least use this year, which will lighten the burden for next year, then a lot of our problems can be eased.
I have a few comments to make on the Council' s first reading in this respect, which I have already submitted to the Committee on Budgets in the form of a discussion paper.
Turning now to the European Court of Auditors.
For reasons that are beyond me, the Council has cut the funding for 2001 from EUR 7 million to EUR 5 million.
My guiding principle for the budgetary procedure for 2001 can be summed up by the following new High German expression: value for money.
The same applies to the Committee of the Regions.
Here too it is my goal, under the 'value for money' maxim, to promote the overall productivity of the committee through a variety of measures.
The committee has asked for an increase in the funding required to cover the travel and subsistence costs incurred by regional representatives of candidate countries attending plenary sittings as observers.
At the same time, however, the Committee of the Regions has declared that it has need of more funds for the year 2001.
To sum up: overall, we are being very sparing with the European tax payer' s money in performing our role as part of the budgetary authority.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President, Commissioner, honourable members, as the last person to speak on this agenda item, all I can do of course is make a few points and reiterate a few things that have already been said.
But as you are all yourselves aware, repetition is the only way to learn.
I shall therefore deliver the good news first: compared with this year' s budget, both the Commission and the Council - albeit only temporarily - have proposed a total reduction of EUR 144 million in the budgetary lines for employment.
But Parliament has already made it clear in its guidelines that the issue of job creation is very close to our hearts, and that one of our first priorities in internal policy is to fight unemployment in Europe.
Accordingly, not only did the Council declare, in the course of the conciliation procedure, that it was willing to support our job creation initiative through suitable instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises, we have also agreed to come to an understanding, in the course of the budgetary procedure, on an amount within the meaning of number 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement, which we intend to use to achieve our goal.
As Parliament made clear last year, we believe it is necessary to undertake a multiannual revision of Category 4 in order to meet the requirements for reconstruction aid in the Balkans in a stable and secure manner.
The Council has obviously made this its guiding principle, for how else are we to interpret the fact that it persists in refusing to commit the funds for the pre-accession countries Cyprus and Malta to Chapter 7 of the pre-accession strategy?
The Council' s declared aim was an increase in expenditure for 2001 of only 3.5% in comparison with the figures for the current budget.
The outcome is a draft budget in which the ratio of commitments to payments is no longer sound.
Well, as you know, the Aids pandemic currently affects 33.6 million people, the majority of them living in developing countries.
According to UNAIDS, 5.6 million new cases and 2.6 million deaths were notified in 1999, including 50% women.
The epidemic has already wiped out the achievements of thirty years of development aid in the most affected countries.
The most tragic consequences are in Africa.
Inequality of opportunity in terms of access to treatment, intolerable in itself, is all the more repugnant today because information circulates, and circulates fast, on this planet.
The European Union has been aware since the beginning of the 1980s, of the need to give the developing countries practical assistance in the fight against HIV-AIDS, putting respect for the people affected, in particular the most vulnerable, at the centre of its concerns.
The International Therapeutic Solidarity Fund has obtained encouraging initial results for the two access to medication programmes started in 1999 in Ivory Coast and Morocco.
Their effects are already apparent in the mother-child prevention programmes set up by UNAIDS and UNICEF.
The United Nations, its agencies and the World Bank are mobilising to strengthen international therapeutic solidarity.
Similarly, the recent decision to make nevirapine, an antiretroviral molecule effective in the prevention of mother-child transmission, freely available adds credibility to that agreement, because it proves that this is not just an announcement, and the pharmaceutical industry really can take practical action.
But this is just a first stage in the struggle against the Aids pandemic.
International aid must be strengthened urgently in the fight against HIV-AIDS.
Coordination of all resources at all levels remains one of the top priorities for international aid within the framework of the strategies defined at international level, in partnership with national Aids programmes and other donors.
We must urgently strengthen prevention programmes, improve the research effort geared to developing countries and give all patients real access to treatment.
A Japanese conference will also be held in the context of the G8 this autumn on these three diseases.
The presidency will support these initiatives to find lasting solutions to the problem of global and respectful responsibility for people suffering from the disease, by means of practical projects and partnership agreements with the countries concerned.
Guaranteeing access to quality treatment, information and the necessary resources for all must be the aim of the European Community.
The theme of the conference, 'Breaking the Silence', provided a framework which helped to strengthen national and international action against HIV/Aids.
Also welcome was information on the many small-scale condom and safe sex empowerment education programmes that have proved their worth in stemming the spread of HIV/Aids.
I believe that the conference could have given more attention to the lessons of success stories as regards improving and expanding these prevention strategies because information and prevention is in fact the most important ways of fighting Aids.
Prevention is central to a successful long-term national, international and global response to Aids.
At the same time a full spectrum of care from basic treatment of opportunistic infections to entry retroviral therapy for HIV infection can no longer be denied to the vast majority of the millions of people infected with the virus.
The Commission welcomes the new initiatives being taken against HIV/Aids by some countries to produce cheaper generic drugs and would like to offer its support to help such countries provide technical assistance to other developing countries to enable them to pursue such initiatives.
We recognise that the production of generic drugs could greatly improve access to care and treatment for HIV/Aids.
For example, one in four Zimbabweans will die from HIV/Aids, including one in three in the capital, Harare.
More than a million children are already orphaned by HIV/Aids in Zimbabwe, almost 10% of the population.
More than half the pregnant women in some areas in Botswana are infected with HIV, and a third of them transmit HIV to their new-born babies during delivery.
The conference opened up exciting new opportunities and partnerships that will enable people who are vulnerable to HIV infection to gain access to technologies and procedures to make care more affordable for HIV/Aids sufferers and invest in new technologies and products to prevent and treat HIV/Aids.
It is accordingly discussing innovative approaches with its developing country partners as well as with other donors.
The Commission will shortly submit a communication to the Council and Parliament outlining proposals for accelerated action to improve access to proven key measures and commodities to develop active and effective delivery structures and systems for drugs and increase investment in research into and development of priority drugs and vaccines.
The communication points especially to the value of bringing condoms, bed nets and other preventive procedures to the poorest and most vulnerable more rapidly and on a sufficiently large scale.
The European Union accounted for 55% of global development aid in the social sectors in 1997 and has increased its support for health, Aids and population programmes from 1% of our total assistance in 1986 to over 8% at the present time, compared to an OECD average of 5.5%.
We are therefore focusing more and more on this field.
This is in clear contrast to the recent offer from the United States to southern Africa.
The Commission is holding wide-ranging consultations on options for accelerated national and international action and innovative approaches to address these diseases.
On 28 September, in collaboration with the WHO and UN Aids, it will be hosting an international round table.
The meeting will consider how a comprehensive approach at national and international level might tackle these three diseases and how we can make a difference.
Madam President, I should like to express my thanks to the President of the Council and Commissioner Nielson for the statement they gave today with regard to the huge issue of Aids, especially in Africa.
Millions of African children are already having to go through life without parents, millions of families have broken up, millions of children and elderly people are having to manage without the support and care of an ever dwindling part of the generation in between.
The situation in many African countries does not lend itself to European solutions.
As far as treatment is concerned, I believe it is important for the pharmaceutical industry to find affordable alternatives to the medication which is of some help in our Western countries, also where transmission of the illness from mother to child is concerned.
I therefore hope with all my heart that the memorandum which Commissioner Nielson has announced will offer us a new perspective, with more people at the European Commission who are prepared to tackle this issue, with more coordination at European level and, more than anything, with more funding, because that is what is needed to help Africa leave this misery behind.
Madam President, in my view an important step was taken at the Durban International Aids Conference: although prevention also remains essential for combating this plague, the issue of access to treatment was finally placed at the heart of the debate.
The G8 Summit at Okinawa has also made it possible to set the seal on the commitment of the rich countries and set targets to lessen the ravages of Aids in Africa over the next ten years, but, unfortunately, the issue of resources was not really dealt with.
This very day a meeting should be taking place in New York, under the auspices of UNDP, between public and private operators to sign up to and finance the Aids action plan for South Africa.
Obviously the European Union is not standing on the sidelines of this mobilisation but I think we should step up a gear, and I heard the French Presidency express that hope.
We eagerly await the Commission' s communication, with guidelines and proposals for combating the major transmissible diseases: Aids of course, but also malaria and tuberculosis.
I am thinking, in particular, of the debates on industrial property rights and compulsory licences.
Perhaps the round table of 28 September, organised by the Commission, in liaison with WHO and UNAIDS could be the first stage in setting that up?
Madam President, I am not going to repeat what has already been said, and said very well, and with very laudable intentions.
UNAIDS itself acknowledges the ineffectiveness of the programme announced by the pharmaceutical laboratories, which were only trying to improve their image, in fact, and are now withdrawing when it comes to genuine negotiation of a reduction in the price of treatment.
The issue is no longer donations of medication, necessarily limited in time and subject to the selective interests of the laboratories, but adapting treatment price to purchasing power in the developing countries.
The European Union must urge the pharmaceutical multinationals to grant voluntary licences, a first step towards access to treatment for the deprived populations.
If that is not done, the European Union should impose respect for the agreements in case of medical emergency, and require the granting of compulsory licences, which would finally mitigate the problem of the price of treatment.
Aids lays bare all the economic and social deficiencies of developing countries and grafts itself onto the more general problem of destitution.
And, by IMF dictate, poor countries are cutting public expenditure, in particular on education and health.
The European Union must contribute towards the rapid cancellation of the debt of African countries, which costs them 15 billion annually, so that those resources can be allocated to establishing the health infrastructure and new social programmes.
Finally, the research priority must be to perfect a vaccine.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Members of the Bonino List.
I have taken note of the words of the Council representative to the effect that France will allocate part of the African countries' debt to the fight against Aids.
It is true that we currently spend USD 300 million per year on Africa, but, at the same time, Africa has a debt of USD 15 billion owed to the industrialised countries.
I therefore feel that there is a need for the Commission and the Member States of the Union to make an ad hoc intervention, in consideration of the European Union's major responsibility precisely towards developing countries.
Indeed, I would argue that we should relate the cancellation of the external debt of the poor countries to the fight against the Aids epidemic, and it is precisely with a view to this that we support the request of the specific programme Debt for Aids contained in the resolution.
The Cairo EU-Africa Summit on debt cancellation procedures and the Durban Conference are, in fact, closely related.
The grievous impact of Aids on economic growth and the close relationship between the fight against poverty and the fight against Aids requires coordination and closer and more effective cooperation between the WHO, the World Bank and the United Nations, with the involvement of the civil society of the countries concerned, the local Churches and the non-governmental organisations.
Every day, children infected with this virus are born in these countries due to a complete lack of suitable programmes for mothers-to-be.
In this context, I think that the proposed reduction in the price of drugs for the victims of Aids in these countries is extremely important and I should like to urge the Commission and the Council to support this endeavour by exerting pressure on pharmaceutical companies.
I welcome the fact that both Commissioner Nielson and the French Presidency now regard and describe the work on combating the HIV epidemic as a main priority.
It is also important to have new kinds of cooperation with the pharmaceuticals industry so that we can produce not only vaccines, but also medicines.
There is a whole host of programmes which are crying out for money and where contributions from the EU could be of use.
I am afraid that, in five to ten years' time, the situation will be similar and very serious in parts of Asia.
I welcome Commissioner Nielson' s conference on 28 September 2000 and hope that it will lead to something of a crash programme for tackling these problems still more vigorously in the future.
We are very grateful to the Commission for preparing its communication which we impatiently await and which will allow us to pool our energies and unite in a determination to act.
We must act without delay because this is an emergency, and the French Presidency stands ready to put that determination to act into practice at European level.
To respond to the immense challenge we face, we need to mobilise all the partners, as I said in my earlier remarks, which drew a wholly positive echo from Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at12 noon.
Creating a monitoring centre for industrial change The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on creating a monitoring centre for industrial change.
Before talking about the arrangements themselves, I think it is useful to give a brief review of the context in which this proposal was born.
The Special European Council in Luxembourg on 21 and 22 November 1997 tasked a high level group of experts with analysing industrial change in the European Union and looking at ways of anticipating and managing change as well as its economic and social repercussions.
All of us, in our own countries, are experiencing the radicalisation of certain social conflicts reflecting despair - I do mean despair - and incomprehension before the challenges of globalisation.
In its final report to the European Commission, the group of experts drew up an inventory and made recommendations.
These include the interesting proposal to the Commission to create a European monitoring centre for industrial change.
This centre would be a tool to help identify and analyse change in order to anticipate its consequences and ensure positive management of those developments.
The emergence of new information and communication technologies in the organisation of relations between the great principals and their sub-contractors - I am thinking of aeronautics, the motor industry - is bringing in its wake new ways of organising work liable to alter the industrial fabric substantially and promote the arrival of new territorial systems going beyond national frameworks.
The nature and importance of the social dialogue accompanying these transformations goes hand in hand with the extent of restructuring or technological evolution.
The European monitoring centre for industrial change may respond to this problem if its tasks and structure are defined in that way.
It should also identify and disseminate positive practical solutions to be implemented at various levels and promote exchange of experience on the evolution of and adaptation to change.
These tasks should respond to the needs of the European institutions, the social partners at all levels, the national and regional institutions and business.
It must be organised so as to fulfil its missions, and in our opinion that means a light, flexible structure.
In our opinion, European social partners and the Commission should naturally be involved in the management of the centre in appropriate ways.
In the view of the French Presidency, that proposal for a foundation should facilitate the rapid establishment of the centre.
France will do everything possible to ensure that it can be in place before the end of this presidency.
Madam President, I have not forgotten how precious time is in this institution, so I have made a point of respecting my speaking time.
After this, in response to the European Council, the Commission invited a high level group of experts to report on the economic and social implications of industrial change and make recommendations on ways to prevent consequences of the kind witnessed at the Renault factory.
In its report the high level group recommended the creation of an observatory.
This report has been endorsed by the Council.
I am convinced of the need to provide European social partners and policy makers with a tool which enables us to adopt a forward-looking approach where industrial change is discussed at European level, with a view to managing it through positive and preventive action.
We have already discussed it three times in Parliament.
The Commission has already proposed in the social agenda presented in 28 June 2000 to invite the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions in Dublin - which is an existing structure - to put in place an information mechanism for change.
This information mechanism should assist the social dialogue between employers and employees and it could support public authorities by providing information data and analysis of existing information on industrial change.
The social partners indicated their interest in this mechanism in the forum of 15 July and committed themselves to finalising their approaches and presenting their ideas on the possible structure for this mechanism.
Of course we shall take their opinion into account before our final proposal.
Secondly, governments and other types of public sector organisations do not have a particularly good record or an aptitude for predicting change in industry, in commerce, in business and in enterprise.
Let the economy and market forces get on with it.
I am curious about the socialist emphasis on industrial change when we in the developed economies now live in a situation in which 20% or less of the work-force is employed in conventional industry and everyone else works in the services sector in the new economy.
I too would like to welcome Nicole Péry back here in the Chamber and perhaps I could say, Nicole, that we miss you particularly when we have extremely difficult votes to transact.
I would like to say that the compromise resolution tabled by my group and others has been cut down to the bare essentials to make it absolutely clear what we are calling for, but even so there seems to be a tremendous amount of confusion over exactly what we are calling for and I would therefore like to spell out two things that we are not calling for.
First, we are not calling for the creation of a new expensive agency or institute.
This would be a centre to gather information and intelligence from all possible partners and actors, business itself, institutions of higher and further education, the employment services both public and private, the social partners from all relevant actors and again I would say to Mr Chichester, we are not saying here that governments should try to predict change.
As both the minister and the Commissioner have said, this follows on from the Gyllenhammar High Level Group following the Vilvoorde closure by Renault.
The Liberal and EPP resolution says that such a centre would try to interfere in the markets and in commercial decisions.
It states that both Council and Commission have pulled back from the decision to create such an observatory, such a centre.
The fact of the matter is, however, that I can only guarantee us one hour here.
I will communicate this problem - and you will probably do so as well - to the Conference of Presidents and to Parliament' s Bureau, because it may occur once as an exceptional case, but when it happens more than once we must tackle the problem and find a solution to it.
A European Monitoring Centre for industrial change is at odds with the liberal principle that governments should not interfere in commercial decisions.
The spectre of the repairable society is on the loose once again in Europe.
Therefore, my group has also failed to achieve a compromise with the Socialist Group on the resolution before us.
Europe and the European economy are doing well.
The blessings of the internal market and particularly the introduction of the euro have given employment a shot in the arm.
This is not the first time that this Parliament is discussing political interference in industry and business management.
Mr President, the European Union is facing far-reaching changes in our economy, globalisation, the new economy, the expansion of new technology and all kinds of demographic factors as well.
Secondly we need involvement, involvement in the support networks, and this is the social implication that needs to be developed.
From this perspective, the Commission and Council should also ensure that topics such as the right to information and consultation, revision of the law on works councils and the role of employees and citizens in mergers and business closures with their serious social consequences can be brought up for discussion sooner rather than later.
And it is always the workers who have to pay the price, never the shareholders.
It sank because there was no observation system for icebergs in those days.
In so far as such an establishment will be independent and will have appropriate resources to carry out its research, and its work is made public and can serve as a basis for democratic debate, it can make a powerful contribution to developing intergovernmental cooperation which, in this area of social policy, remains predominant.' That is not a quotation from some irresponsible or lunatic left-winger.
My friend Steven Hughes has explained that the Socialists and the two other political groups tabling a joint resolution do not want a bureaucratic monster.
In fact, the Commission has plenty of documentation available, and Eurostat can provide very interesting statistics on industrial evolution in Europe and beyond.
There are the national governments and research institutes.
There must be no duplication of existing work but coordination of it and a report, at least every six months, which can be debated in the Council and in the European Parliament.
A year later, as a first concrete step, we are offered a monitoring centre for industrial change.
Fine, but let it really serve the cause of the employees.
The two sides of industry must be associated with this initiative by means budgetary resources allocated by the European institutions.
We have also established procedures like the participation of employees in the capital, profits and results of the company, all indispensable procedures during industrial restructuring and change.
Of course there is still a great deal to be done in this field, but it seems to me that if we need to improve this type of procedure, as my colleagues have said, and it is not uptight to say so - we now have bodies in Europe like the Foundation in Dublin and the European Agency for Health and Safety in Bilbao, with which our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs cooperates, that are in a position to evaluate the consequences of these industrial changes effectively.
And we should not forget that both sides of industry also have an indispensable role to play as regards industrial change at the European and the social level.
As has been said, the European Parliament has on several occasions, at times of crises, restructuring or conversion of production plant, decided by a large majority on the need for the European institutions and social dialogue partners to intervene early enough to be able to find all the possible solutions in order to avert avoidable serious social conflict and prevent the deindustrialisation of entire territories and the triggering-off of processes of serious social exclusion.
What Parliament was complaining of was the lack of information which would have made it possible to analyse these processes in due time and, more generally, to examine the changes taking place in production and employment in these firms before such an analysis lost its value due to the precipitous adoption of irreversible decisions.
I feel that the creation of a monitoring centre - a centre coordinating all the information useful for predicting restructuring and conversion processes - could be a valuable service for the Community institutions and facilitate social dialogue at European level.
Therefore, I call upon all those Members who voted on the resolutions on the restructuring processes, from Verwoord onwards, and especially those who voted on the Michelin affair in a resolution which explicitly provided for the establishment of a monitoring centre for industrial change, to show consistency on this occasion.
Mr President, with a tool such as this, it will, indeed, be possible not only to inform the workers concerned in advance and to explore the possibilities of averting or reducing redundancies - as stipulated by the Community Directive of 24 June 1992 - but also to facilitate at local and Community level dialogue which would make it possible to ascertain the existence of alternative solutions to those put forward by the companies.
She wants to keep loss-making industries on life-support systems when we should be releasing the resources of labour and capital so that they can work in viable new enterprises.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Question Time (B5-0535/2000).
According to the Rules of Procedure, for supplementary questions - which are not obligatory - you have 1 minute, but there is a Parliament recommendation that only 30 seconds be used.
The European Union regrets that the United States has not yet ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Our representatives have been urging the United States to ratify it in bilateral contacts.
The European Union often raises human rights issues in the context of its political dialogue with the United States and the Council takes note of the case raised by the honourable Member.
Although the success of the event depends in large measure on the commitment of the international community as a whole, the Council recognises that the European Union can and must play a major role in the preparations, a role encouraged during informal contacts held with representatives of UNICEF.
Mr President, I really must thank Mr Moscovici for the quality and content of his reply and for the fact that the European Union feels that the international conventions of the United Nations Organisation, such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, should be ratified.
Because, if I am not mistaken, the United States have ratified the new International Labour Organisation Convention on Child Labour but the convention is not being applied.
That is why we want to start having a much more determined political dialogue with the United States on this issue and press for ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child by the United States.
Question No 3 by (H-0627/00): Subject: Involvement of labour and management In various Member States there is no dialogue of substance or effective cooperation between government bodies and representatives of labour and management on employment-related issues or, in a broader context, efforts to modernise the European social model.
On the latter aspect, both sides of industry participate, with the Council and Commission, in the work of the standing committee on employment with a view to facilitating coordination of employment policies in the Member States by harmonising them with Community objectives.
Our social partners are also associated with the work of the committee on employment, consultation of both sides of industry in this context being informal.
As regards the efforts to strengthen the European strategy for jobs, when the employment guidelines are revised in 2001, both sides of industry, including those at national level, will be invited to play a more important role in their definition, and in implementing and evaluating the guidelines which fall within their scope.
As regards the modernisation of the European social model, both sides of industry will be associated with the work of the new committee on social protection, just as they are already associated with the work of the old committee on employment and the labour market and its successor, the committee on employment.
Following the conclusions of the Lisbon European Council, the Fifteen are due to adopt a European social policy agenda at the Nice European Council in December 2000.
That is an important priority for the French Presidency.
The working document for that agenda is a communication from the Commission adopted on 28 June.
We are currently succeeding in reconciling the problems of economic coordination, the major objectives of economic policy, the problems of coordination in social terms, the guidelines for employment and the various methods, and the various bodies working on it.
Mr President, the social partnership should be a forward-looking partnership.
As you know, three experts were designated by the President of the European Court of Human Rights on 12 July in order to check specifically whether the Austrian Government had contravened common European values since taking office on 4 February, and also to look into the decidedly unique political character of the Austrian Freedom Party.
I have listened to the French Presidency' s answer with a great deal of interest.
The fact remains that I am speaking right now, let me repeat, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and that those measures are not measures undertaken within the context of the European institutions but rather a set of bilateral measures undertaken by 14 Member States with regard to the fifteenth.
It is therefore possible to estimate that the percentage of young people in education at 16 is approximately 90% and at 18 approximately 60%.
In fact, I have consulted the statistics and I have consulted the information provided by the European Foundation for Education, and I am surprised by the rosy picture they paint of the situation in the countries of the East.
Let me repeat to the honourable Member that I have available a table which, in effect, shows that what I have said includes the disparities.
I can give you this summary table if you wish, Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines.
This is what we wish to do for the European Union.
It must be considered, however, that if this is made a requirement within the European Union, then this is the requirement within the body to which the candidate countries wish and are going to accede.
The question of whether it should be an approach like that used for the internal market or like that in use for the Schengen countries can be posed at a later date.
Question No 6 by (H-0605/00): Subject: Negotiating mandate covering the agricultural section of the free trade agreement with the Maghreb The Commission has submitted its proposal for a negotiating mandate for the free trade agreement with Morocco, Tunisia and Israel to the Council' s 'Maghreb' Working Party.
These agreements include a periodic review clause for agriculture, according to which the parties undertake to plan for the increased liberalisation of their agricultural trade, with this process complementing the gradual dismantling of the tariff system in preparation for the setting up of the industrial free trade area due in 2010.
The Morocco, Tunisia and Israel association agreements make provision for examination of the agricultural trade situation, as of 1 January 2000, with a view to the establishment of gradual liberalisation measures, beginning on 1 January 2001.
On 20 July 2000, the Council approved the Commission' s negotiating mandate, which comprises general guidelines.
The mandate therefore authorises the Community negotiator, if necessary, to grant the Mediterranean partners tariff preferences for new products or to improve existing concessions, while, however, taking the vulnerability of certain products and the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy into consideration.
In this respect, it specifies that the Commission is, in collaboration with the Member States, to carry out an assessment of the potential impact of the concessions on the economic and commercial interests of the European Union, and obviously the Council will not take a decision until it has consulted the results of this assessment.
At the moment there are agricultural sectors in the Mediterranean and also in the outermost regions of the Community, which could be threatened as a result of the very generous proposed concessions by the Commission.
This common position was sent to the European Parliament for second reading at the July 2000 part-session.
The Commission will present its proposal on the implementation of a single financial framework at a later date.
What I do recall is the European Council in Helsinki, as I took part in this discussion there, having just a short time before been on a brief diplomatic mission to Turkey and Greece, and the Helsinki conclusions are the ones which are binding upon us and upon everyone.
In order for Turkey to become a member of the European Union, it must respect its values and therefore make the necessary efforts.
At the same time, we must greet its efforts positively.
Moreover, I should point out that agricultural subsidies are among the subjects dealt with in the WTO negotiations which commenced in June 2000.
The implementation of the reduction commitments agreed at the time of the 1994 Marrakech Accord is also scheduled for examination in the course of these negotiations, which are based on the principles outlined in Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
I wish to raise the question with the President-in-Office of the change in American policy since we in the European Union changed the whole direction of the support we give to agriculture following the last round of GATT negotiations.
At the same time the European Union, in pursuit of its policies which were forced on us by the clearance group and the United States, has reduced its share of world markets in the dairy sector, in the cereal sector and in the meat sector.
Question No 9 by (H-0616/00): Subject: Change to the unanimity required for cultural issues in view of the Intergovernmental Conference Europe' s common cultural heritage, alongside the development of the Member States' cultures and respect for diversity, has been considered an important aspect of European integration and has been incorporated into the EU Treaties, in Article 151.
This article specifically provides for the encouragement of cooperation between Member States, in order to support and supplement actions in various particularly vulnerable areas.
In this context, Article 151 is one of the provisions likely to be converted to the rule of qualified majority voting.
Minister, everyone who knows that we urgently need a cultural policy in the European Union also knows - and I agree with you - that the Intergovernmental Conference represents a huge chance to change the unanimity rule.
The more economic policies progress, the more we need to study their cultural impact and develop a structural cultural policy.
Let me abandon my official role for a second to say that we would like to see qualified majority voting become the general rule and unanimous voting the exception, rather than the opposite, which is the case at present.
This is the spirit in which the Council will declare its opinion on the legislative proposals put forward by the Commission, when the time comes.
Moreover, the European Union' s Ministers for Agriculture, whose informal six-monthly meeting has been held from Saturday until today in Biarritz, have just stressed their determination, now more clearly than in the past, to focus in agricultural policies on boosting product quality and diversity.
The impact of enlargement on the budget was the subject of intense discussion at the European Council in Berlin in March 1999 when the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 were drawn up.
For each year in this period, and for each heading, the financial perspectives give the expenditure totals as commitment appropriations, and the commitment appropriations laid down under the various headings of the financial perspectives are not interchangeable.
There is hence no question of enlargement-related expenditure being funded at the expense of agricultural expenditure under heading 1 of the financial perspectives.
Question No 11 by (H-0619/00): Subject: Attack on Greek minority in the village of Dervitsani in Albania The Greek inhabitants of Dervitsani, a village in Albania, passed the night of 3 to 4 July 2000 in shelters after being attacked by anti-tank missiles from the neighbouring village of Lazarati.
The previous week the Council of Europe had recommended that the Albanian government take measures to protect the minorities living in Albania.
The European Union supports the efforts of the Albanian Government to restructure and modernise its police forces in order to increase the security of Albanian citizens and of the region.
The Multinational Advisory Police Element in Albania, formed under the authority of the WEU Council and deployed in Albania since 1997, has widened and developed the scope of its mission following the adoption, in March 1998, of a joint action on the European Union' s contribution to re-establishing a viable police force in Albania.
Following the adoption of the action programme for Albania and the neighbouring region, the Council is currently examining the proposed measures in order to identify those which can be implemented speedily.
The action programme is basically devoted to matters relating to problems of migration and asylum.
The proposed measures do, however, include projects in the field of human rights and the protection of minorities.
The European Union is, moreover, already active in these fields.
Since Albania is eligible for an association and stabilisation agreement, its performance in terms of respect for democratic principles and human and minority rights and in terms of public order and the rule of law, are closely monitored by the European Union, I can assure you.
However, the purpose of my question was to draw attention once again to the huge problems in the Balkans, problems caused by economic and social deprivation and, more importantly, the fact that there is no democratic infrastructure.
This is a general problem which must be dealt with as such.
Nonetheless, the suggested actions do include projects or programmes seeking to step up democracy and respect for human rights and minority rights in general.
The Council working groups are currently proceeding to examine the various measures proposed in order to identify which of them could be implemented in the near future.
Question No 12 by (H-0622/00): Subject: Reduction of TACIS aid to Russia The European Union has punished Russia for its military action in Chechnya by reducing aid paid under the TACIS programme.
The relevant management committee is scheduled to examine these proposals on 17 October this year.
A second tranche will be allocated to aid in support of the reform process initiated by the Russian authorities recently in order to establish a genuine rule of law, which will bring the TACIS appropriations allocated to Russia in 2000 to EUR 92 million at the most.
The only answer I can give you regarding the budget released in 2001 is that it will depend on the decisions the Council is induced to make at a later stage in the light of development of the situation in Russia.
This situation will be assessed in relation to the criteria for the progress to be achieved in terms of institutional reforms, democratisation, the strengthening of civil society and human rights protection throughout the territory of Russia.
However, unfortunate events such as those which took place on 22 June, caused by a small number of people, must not become the general rule.
It is therefore important to adopt measures which will prevent, in all events, their repetition and that the sanction adopted by the competent parties shall serve as an example.
Mr President, Mr Moscovici, very serious attacks have also taken place in Finland on one certain means of livelihood, namely fur farming.
The situation you mention may share some of the features of the previous situation, but it is not the result of the same regulation, which is to do with fisheries issues.
I am not going to respond ad hoc to a question on such a difficult subject.
Question No 14 by (H-0625/00): Subject: Public Council meetings One of the three goals of the French Presidency is to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
Moreover, Rule 8 of the Council's Rules of Procedure provides for the organisation of public debates.
One of the top priorities of the French Presidency was, therefore, to draw up a list of public debates, covering a wide range of subjects, which was adopted by the Permanent Representatives Committee (COREPER) on 5 July 2000.
Two debates were held in July, a debate on the presentation of the presidency' s programme at the General Affairs Council on 10 July 2000, and a second debate on the presidency programme at the ECOFIN Council on 17 July.
On 9 November 2000, there will be a public debate on young people and Europe as part of the Education and Youth Council.
Finally, on 20 November 2000, there will be a debate on food safety as part of the Agriculture Council.
Over 3000 detailed reports of the public debates have been delivered by post.
In addition, television channels have the opportunity to broadcast these debates, in total or in part, via the 'Europe by Satellite' channel.
Finally, the French Presidency strives to make as much information as possible on all Council proceedings available to the public on its Internet website, as well as subject indexes for the main topics under discussion.
The curious situation in the Council of Ministers is that the public only has access to certain debates.
I should just like to remind the honourable Member of the different roles of the various institutions of the European Union.
I am fortunate enough to be a member of the cabinet in the government of my country.
It is because of this concept of the separation of powers that debates are designated as either open or closed.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Question Nos 15 to 40 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, the Council common position whose aim you have just stated has been referred back to Parliament for a second reading, not because of its content, but because of its form.
With regard to content, Parliament has agreed to commit EUR 135 million over the next five years to measures aiming to compensate Turkey for the sacrifices it has agreed to make in order to enter into a customs union with the European Union, and on this point there is no divergence with the Council.
With regard to form, we wanted to specify a number of areas in which the corresponding measures should be agreed as a priority, and the Council did not want to accept three of our proposals regarding the wording of a precautionary principle on the development of nuclear energy, in particular in earthquake zones.
The protection and recognition of the cultural identity of minorities and support for measures seeking to abolish capital punishment and, finally, perhaps most importantly, the development of any form of cooperation seeking to resolve the Kurdish problem.
I say that these matters of form are not trivial in a debate that precedes the one which is due to take place on accession in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy in October, and following which, in November, I shall have to present the report on the state of progress of the work and any changes in attitudes within the European Union and Turkey.
I think I can say that there is a broad consensus for granting Turkey a privileged position for geographical, historical, economic and political reasons, but I would also say that this privileged position can and must be envisaged within the European Union itself just as much as in close cooperation with the Union.
I understand that this was probably your opinion, Commissioner Verheugen, and I think I can guarantee you the support of a large majority of my colleagues in this area.
The decision on Turkey' s accession is too important for the future of the European Union and Turkey for it to be made in veiled silence, or even in secrecy, behind closed doors.
As rapporteur on enlargement, I was convinced of this, not only by the richness and passion of the debates that have already taken place in Parliament, but also by observing the reactions in Turkey itself, both in government circles and in civil society.
I shall come back to these contrasting reactions in detail when I present my report.
The people of Turkey consider that entry into the European Union will require not only a painless revision of their legal arsenal and the partial loss of their sovereignty, to which they remain attached, but also a radical change in their habits and mentality, for which they do not seem prepared.
I shall repeat this proposal in my report and I think I can say that the Turkish Government is not hostile to this, but quite the opposite, it would seem.
There is a Kurdish problem in Turkey.
The Council must not forbid the European Parliament to propose its contribution to the solution.
If the text of this regulation is referred back for a second reading, it is not purely for a matter of form, but because Parliament refuses to accept this kind of political sleight of hand.
I am able to support him on behalf of my group, and I believe it must be possible to reach an agreement with the Council.
We are keen to use this instrument to promote economic and social development in Turkey.
Naturally, we hope that, parallel to this - and perhaps even as a result of it - political development in Turkey towards democracy and respect for human rights, in particular respect for its own Kurdish population, will also be strengthened, and the death penalty abolished.
Mr President, our relations with Turkey should promote democracy, stability and consistency.
The path to those goals is partly by way of social and economic development, and the way to social and economic development is partly by means of foreign investment.
The Union' s finance package will be an incentive to further investment in Turkey and, in the process, will also promote and consolidate democracy and human rights.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his recommendation for second reading.
It is no secret that Turkey cannot be democratic in our sense of the word until such time as the economic and social problems there have been solved.
It is also widely appreciated that Turkey will not be able to get on top of these problems alone and without our aid.
Mr President, just nine months - or perhaps I should say already nine months - have passed since the Helsinki resolution granting Turkey candidate status.
So do you want to use this money as bait so that you can penetrate the Turkish economy even further, so that you can plunder the Turkish people' s wealth even more?
The strange nature of relations between the European Union and Turkey, which we have experienced for many years, from the beginning and throughout, is due to the political problem which we call Turkey.
And I think that the main issue is precisely this process and this road.
From this viewpoint, the Morillon proposal is an encouraging prospect.
The report now proposes adding three points to the draft regulation.
A special importance attaches to this draft regulation for it constitutes the last of the three pillars of financial aid for Turkey, the others being the measures in favour of Turkey in the framework of the MEDA programme and the regulation issued by the Council in April.
Improvements in relations between the Union and Turkey following the European Council, meeting in Helsinki, have enabled us to speak openly and frankly with each other on all issues.
The strengthened political dialogue at all levels characteristic of the climate following Helsinki has made a decisive contribution to this state of affairs.
The report contains a host of proposed reforms for improving the human rights situation.
I also expressly insisted upon this in the course of the discussions in Turkey.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
There are risks - as there always are when innovation bursts forth - but the transition to digital technology will bring with it huge opportunities for pluralism and massive production possibilities for the system.
The Community therefore has to keep up with progress and endeavour to ensure that digital technology fulfils its potential as an opportunity for culture, pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity and for the European economy and technical innovation and research in Europe.
We consider that the instruments which have already been defined in the Commission's text will make it possible to achieve these goals.
However, the debate generated in Parliament, which has looked at different points of view and has pulled out all the stops, as did the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, in order to find a common point of agreement with the result that the report was adopted unanimously, proposes a limited number of nevertheless important supplements.
Firstly: the need for a rapid revision of the legal instruments governing the sector, in particular the "Television without Frontiers" Directive which has been in need of revision for a long time.
Secondly: in order to avert the risk of dependency of our cultural industry in the event of expansion, of growth of the number of channels, we would like to introduce the possibility of production investment in the audiovisual sector.
The free movement of information and freedom of expression serve now to safeguard rights and freedoms and will always do so.
The citizens' confidence in the audiovisual service must be won through compliance with the principles of the protection of human dignity and of minors.
Technology and content cannot be governed by the same legislation: technology must be neutral and content must be regulated.
The audiovisual sector basically faces the task of having to develop in two main fields.
Thirdly, television in Europe.
We therefore say a clear yes to the protocol of the Treaty of Amsterdam on public service broadcasting and to the Member States' responsibility for commissioning and for securing finance.
However, I want to confine my remarks this evening to public service broadcasting in the digital age because there are some very important public access issues that we need to address when defining the principles from the crossover in our current media to the development of digital broadcasting.
Defining the values and principles underlying public broadcasting gives us some difficulties anyway, as Member States, corporations, and broadcasters all have very different ideas of what public broadcasting constitutes.
However, this should not prevent us from defining it in the digital age, because these principles are very important to us all, and, as infrastructure has developed, so content is going to develop as well.
Overcoming that divide, to my mind, should be one of the key points that we emphasise in this report.
Secondly, we are a democratic society, and digital policy in the audiovisual sector can connect our local citizens to our citizens at the centres of power.
In terms of cultural richness and diversity, it is important both that we should have individual centres of cultural excellence and that we be bound as a European continent.
Mr President, Commissioner, the airwaves are buzzing.
You cannot open a newspaper or put the radio or television on without being confronted by new developments in the IT or digitalisation sectors.
As the rapporteur rightly points out, the AV sector is an extremely important sector in terms of employment, but also in terms of freedom of expression, democracy and cultural diversity in Europe.
Complementary measures and cooperation with the business community, and fiscal measures, these are the key words of a more effective policy intended to increase the financial resources and to improve the marketing and distribution.
On a final note: we attach a great deal of importance to the freedom of the user and therefore the same applies to parents.
The effect of the "Television without Frontiers" Directive has been that a large percentage of national works are still broadcast in each country, without managing to have these works circulated between countries.
In this context, we agree that the cultural diversity that is advocated today is not a simple addition of the respective identities of each Member State, but the exchange and circulation of these identities.
The issue of the work' s content concerns us all.
One of the goals of the public service, however, is the general interest, and for this reason it must be valued.
Public television channels are developing autonomously in each Member State, pursuant to Protocol 32 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but they are agreed on taking on similar tasks, such as information, innovation, room for exchange and integration etc.
Moreover, we must not be intimidated but take pride in the entire audiovisual sector in the digital age as a great vehicle of freedom, information and movement of ideas.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Veltroni, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I cannot support the positive view you have expressed of the report under discussion on the Communication from the Commission on the guidelines for the Community's audiovisual policy in the digital age.
I cannot support your view because the communication is a reproduction of the old European TV and cinema cliché: direct public intervention through State agencies, welfarism and disregard for the nature of the market, a cliché which is characterising the audiovisual sector more and more.
All this has been dredged up and 'modernised' to suit the new digital age of multimedia convergence and the extraordinary spread of the Internet.
Moving on to some specific points of the report under consideration.
With regard to intellectual property and copyright - another point covered by the report - I feel that it is pointless and damaging to the positive development of the Internet to strengthen the directive on copyright, as it is proposed to do.
Remember the Napster and the New Tell cases.
Lastly, on the subject of the privatisation of television, we call for a revision of the Amsterdam protocol which is referred to here as if it is set in stone.
The Financial Times has raised the issue of the privatisation of the jewel of European public television, the BBC.
It is clear that a great effort has been made to introduce new issues and to take new steps in European audiovisual policy.
However, I believe that we still have a lot to do on certain points, both in the Commission and in Parliament.
We are very much lagging behind in relation to the huge changes taking place in the audiovisual sector, particularly as a result of digitalisation.
We all know that digitalisation began about five years ago and therefore this work on audiovisual policy is timely to say the least.
There are five points I would like to highlight because I believe that sooner or later they will have to be reviewed: First is the definition of public service.
This is important if we want to have a public service in Europe in an environment which is truly competitive - and this can be seen from the audience for public services - and also for the good of the private audiovisual service.
The fourth point refers to the transfer from analogue TV to digital TV and its consequences for users in terms of the use and acquisition of new terminals.
The audiovisual policy should tackle these points and also go into more depth in the field of competition.
The Commission' s initiative in this is also very welcome, as is the clarification of roles in respect of the information society and the main areas of culture.
Amid this technological revolution it is vital to bear in mind the social and cultural importance of media communications.
In that connection we must honour the Additional Protocol of the Treaty of Amsterdam, according to which Member States decide how to organise public service finances.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the "Television without Frontiers" Directive.
Those of us who are interested in defining public service on a national basis must be watchful.
Not all languages are in fact equal in the EU in this respect.
As far as we are concerned, the problem is not whether information will be controlled by American or European monopolies.
The real problem is that the people need to develop their resistance and enforce their right to fundamental information.
That is why I am calling for a Digital Europe initiative with clear plans for the harmonised introduction of digital television and the digitalisation of content.
Thirdly, audiovisual policy concerns infrastructure and content.
Mr President, the document presented by the Commission in relation to its policy in the audiovisual sector in the digital era includes, amongst other things, two ideas which I consider to be fundamental.
Firstly, we must safeguard the future of the dual system of public and private television, and it is essential that European public operators can make full use of the possibilities offered by the new information technologies.
Secondly, cultural and linguistic diversity is a fundamental objective of Community policy in the audiovisual sector.
To this end, I wish to propose that the Commission, in its action and aid, prioritise positive discrimination in favour of the audiovisual sectors of the regional and minority cultures and languages of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a glance at German cable television, where some 30 channels are now already jostling for attention, is enough to show that multiplicity is not the same thing as diversity.
Mr O'Toole is right in saying that simulcasts would not make it possible to attract a group of substantial users and he therefore believes that a trial period for new audiovisual products on channels made available through digital transmission, possibly only over sections of territory, will enable operators and users to achieve the same objective.
The Commission is right to say that the system of funding adopted by the Member States must comply with the principle of proportionality and must not influence market conditions and competition in the Community in a way contrary to the interests of society.
As you know, the Council also supported the Commission's approach in the conclusions approved at its meeting of 16 May this year, which makes for pleasing unanimity.
In particular, the Commission welcomes Parliament's support on the regulatory principle described in the communication.
The Commission takes note of Parliament's comments on this directive and will take due account of them in carrying out the examination planned for the end of 2002.
It only said that it would carry out a study of this technology in order to verify whether or not a revision was necessary.
The Commission also agrees with Parliament that the principle of a clear demarcation between editorial content and advertising should be maintained in all forms of media.
With regard to the comments on the draft report concerning the pluralism of the media, it should be noted here that digital technology and in particular the Internet presents unprecedented possibilities for creating and developing a pluralist society.
For example, digital technology allows for a colossal increase in the number of channels, thereby reducing barriers to access for content producers.
The Internet also, at least potentially, allows each citizen to become a content producer themselves and creates the opportunity for a world-wide forum in which anyone can take part, with the advantages and dangers that that implies.
The obstacles to pluralism in the digital world include poverty and a lack of education and training.
This is something that is very dear to me, and also to Jacques Lang with whom I have already discussed the possibility of developing this approach.
Nonetheless, other measures could, obviously, also be adopted, in the light of experience of the digital age and in response to Parliament's questions, the Commission will carry out consultations on these issues during its examination of the "Television without Frontiers" Directive.
The digital revolution will open up many new ways of exploiting audiovisual works: video on demand via the Internet, for example.
Progress has already been made, however, in the past ten years.
At the same time, with regard to cinema, we can see a significant increase in the number of European successes.
So we must not stop, ladies and gentlemen, and I know that I have your support in this, but I need money to be able to carry out the new MEDIA plus programme.
This is the great danger that will affect the final decision on this project.
I hope that in the interests of European cinema in all our Member States, we will obtain good results in this area at the forthcoming 'Culture' Councils.
I would also like to draw the attention of those who are not here now but who have expressed criticism, saying that MEDIA and MEDIA plus only work at European level in addition to national systems that invest in production.
It is not, therefore, redundant, it is not something superfluous, but something that is absolutely necessary if we want our European films to circulate beyond the borders of their country of production.
Furthermore, this communication could also assess the need for intervention in this field at Community level and the opportunity to develop financial engineering mechanisms in favour of cinematographic productions.
But it must be clearly understood that we fully recognise the importance of public financing for audiovisual production and the need to provide for specific treatment in this area.
I would like to emphasise this last statement, as it is of primary importance for our whole political future.
Now, you all know that public service broadcasting is a very sensitive and highly complex issue, and the Commission has clearly explained its position many times, in particular in this communication.
The Commission does not intervene in this area and the text on transparency is clear on this point.
By virtue of the Treaty, nonetheless, the Commission has a duty to ensure that the financing system does not affect trading conditions and competition in the Community to the detriment of the common good.
For the Commission to be able to do its job and in order to assess whether the advantages granted to the businesses in question correspond to the public service goals which are their responsibility, these goals must be defined by the Member State and their financing must be transparent.
Any commercial activity practised by these businesses must not, directly or indirectly, benefit from funds intended for public service.
Certain ministers considered that a new additional stage of the Amsterdam Protocol was necessary, given the rapid technological development in this sector, and I have stated my readiness to discuss this issue with you and with those Ministers in the near future.
Therefore, the public services defined by the State, with public financing clearly contained in the definition of public service, are not affected by the directive on transparency.
Guaranteed access for citizens to certain broadcasting services and certain types of content is a question of defining the public service broadcasting mandate and, in accordance with the Amsterdam Protocol, is therefore the responsibility of the Member States.
It should be noted that, within the framework of the current directive, a contact committee has been created to examine all aspects of audiovisual policy linked to the directive.
The Commission has clarified its position many times.
It should retain its freedom, acquired during the Uruguay round, to draw up and implement financial and regulatory provisions in the audiovisual sector with a view in particular to safeguarding cultural diversity.
In its conclusions of 26 October 1999, the Council gave the Commission to undertake the forthcoming negotiations on services and I can frankly assure you that my colleague, Commissioner Lamy, is in full agreement with this direction.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I, as a British Conservative, often find fault - and it is very easy to find fault - with many of the programmes organised and paid for by the European Commission and the European Union.
Certainly of the people who took an Erasmus course in 1998 and bothered to reply to the questionnaire 98% found that the programme was extremely positive or at least very positive.
Fortunately two or three Members (and the Commission as well) did read them.
One helps with a bit of punctuation, a bit of grammar on the particular passage in point 4, the second in point 6.
On the subject of the Erasmus programme, which is, after all, a part of the Socrates programme, I should like to say that - given the need not only to set up the programme but also to evaluate it - it is quite important to examine the efficiency of what is being offered and to carry out an assessment of the resources, if new knowledge is to be obtained and, above all, the defects in the programme removed.
The report has shown that the reasons for this are both structural and cultural, as well as economic to quite a significant degree.
So, you see, these programmes also achieve the unanimity of the whole population and naturally, they can always be improved.
This year, 110 000 students are receiving the special attention that we give to all aspects of their Erasmus trip and to the smooth running of this section of the Socrates programme, and we thank Parliament for supporting this measure.
It is often said that only the children of fairly comfortably off families can travel as the others cannot live on this modest grant.
If we consult our statistics, however, 4 out of 5 Erasmus students were the first members of their family to study abroad, which does illustrate the role that this programme plays in the opportunities for mobility available in Europe to students of new social backgrounds.
Furthermore, even if the latter have more to live on because they receive additional help from their parents on top of their grant, in other respects it seems that these financial difficulties are the only criticism made.
I think that in future, I will once again have to request the help of all the national and regional authorities in this area.
I hope that the discussion on 'mobility' that the French presidency wanted will get this situation moving and that goodwill will be sought both at a private level and at regional, European and national levels so that the great success of Erasmus will encompass a growing number of students.
This is the price to pay for creating Europe, since students who have got to know another country within the framework of Erasmus, who have made friends in another country, at another university, are the true Europeans who will make European policy tomorrow.
A greater number of happy Erasmus students is in the interests of our society as a whole.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
However, at the end of the day, they are two important agreements which will add to the already significant network of international fisheries agreements between the European Union and third countries, the basic pillar of the common fisheries policy, since it is essential to cover our supply requirements, both for the European consumer and for our industry, and it is also essential to do so by means of our own fleet.
The fisheries agreements with third countries therefore fulfil a crucial objective of the common fisheries policy, and they also contribute to employment and, in most cases, in European regions which are very dependent on this activity.
Notable in both cases is the constant and worrying increase in the payments by shipowners while, curiously, these are not included in other agreements, as is notoriously the case with the agreement with Greenland.
For example, in the case of Mauritius, there is an increase in the amount that shipowners are to pay for licences, of EUR 5 per tonne of fish, that is to say, they are increased from EUR 20 to EUR 25, and there is also an equivalent increase in the case of catches by ship.
The European Union' s contribution is reduced by 29%, payable by shipowners which, in the case of complete exploitation of the fishing allowances, would mean a contribution of 23.5% of the total cost.
In this context we also wish to highlight the imbalances in the internal distribution of these fishing allowances by the European Commission amongst the Member States, as was the case with cephalopods in the agreement with Guinea.
Both agreements give significant support to the local authorities for the conservation of their own fishing resources and furthermore advocate agreements between states as opposed to private agreements - which is very important in agreements such as the one with Morocco, which we are trying to negotiate - as well as the contribution of the European Union to the establishment of modern control systems, which forms part of the conservationist position of the European Union in all of the world' s seas, in accordance with its internal approach to its own Community waters.
On the other hand, there is an important direct relationship between the financial compensation and the objectives and cooperation actions that have been agreed.
The Committee on Fisheries has voted in favour of these agreements, and this has become the norm, since it considers that they are both highly beneficial to both parties, that is to say, the European Union and the third countries.
The rapporteur is against this amendment, since, if only those who benefit directly from Community policies are to pay for them, that would quite simply be a way of breaking up the single market and dismantling the European Union itself.
We are therefore in favour of both fisheries agreements, which we hope may continue in the future, and we are anxious, Commissioner, to be able soon to hold a debate in our Fisheries Committee, and to repeat what we are saying now, in relation to the extremely important fisheries agreement with Morocco.
Mr President, Commissioner, in principle I approve the new protocols to the fisheries agreements with Mauritius and Guinea.
The Commission and the rapporteur have done some good work.
Yet, in the Committee on Fisheries, we are repeatedly confronted by the issue of whether the price paid by the European Union to third countries for its fishing rights is not too high.
Mr President, the Socialist Group supports the proposal for a Council Regulation on the European Community fisheries agreements with Mauritius and the Republic of Guinea.
Both agreements fall within a general European Community policy based on our presence in the rest of the world.
The fishing sector forms part of the Community' s economy and, in order for the Community fleet to be able to fish and carry out its activity, the Community must reach agreements with third countries and international organisations, so that our fishermen can enjoy adequate fishing allowances.
In the case of Guinea we have had an agreement since 1983 and in the case of Mauritius since 1989.
There can be no doubt about the cost-effectiveness of these agreements for the European Union, as demonstrated in the study commissioned by the Commission on their cost-benefit relationships.
Nor can we doubt the beneficial effects for the other contracting parties, in this case Mauritius and the Republic of Guinea.
These are agreements which benefit both parties and which have been amended over time, being adapted to the demands of the sustainable exploitation of resources and of actions supporting the efforts of the authorities in the third countries to develop their own fishing sector.
Therefore, the contrast with other agreements - I would like to highlight, for example, the agreement with Greenland, in which the shipowners do not contribute to its cost - is the all the more drastic.
In the case of Mauritius, it also reduces the volume of authorised catches and specifies the number of vessels authorised to fish.
The approval by the European Parliament of these two fisheries agreements sends a political message demonstrating our support for the signing and renewal of other fisheries agreements which are of much greater importance for our sector because of the number of ships and fishermen which depend on them.
I am referring in particular to the agreement with Morocco.
It now falls to the European Commission to negotiate hard in order to reach a reasonable agreement with Morocco.
In principle, those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party support the EU' s having fisheries agreements with third countries, but I should also like to point out that what we in the Liberal Group want - and this is why we have tabled a number of amendments - is for the fishermen or ship owners to make more of a contribution to financing the fisheries agreements.
The fisheries agreements are extremely important for certain regions in which, in addition to employment in the fisheries sector itself, there are a range of associated businesses wholly or partially dependent upon the fishing industry.
By means of the fisheries agreements, the EU is able to develop its activities in this sphere and exchange fishing rights with third countries.
The effect of the EU fleets upon fishing resources - in terms of structural policy and the financial situation - ought to be analysed much more than it is at present.
I want to conclude by asking the Commission to provide the Committee on Fisheries with a report on what for third countries are the positive and negative consequences of the EU' s fisheries agreements.
All the evidence shows that agreements between the EU and third world countries have been conservation disasters.
Not only will I vote against these proposals, but I shall urge my government to oppose them.
We see from this that, apart from the importance of fisheries agreements for the European Union, they can also be used as instruments for development in these countries.
As a Portuguese citizen, I am bound to regret the fact in this context that the Commission and the Council are so far behind in their negotiations on the agreement with Morocco.
It is nevertheless important that the requirements of supervision and control, as well as the programmes designed to control the reduction of the fishing effort are also imposed on the other countries that fish in the waters of these developing countries and not only on the Member States of the European Union.
Private contracts between European shipowners and the Guinean Government are often concluded without this form of assistance from the local fishing industry, and contribute to over-fishing due to a lack of controls.
These trawlers will fish in the coastal zone, where they are a direct threat to local fishermen.
All Member State ships should respect an economic twelve-mile exclusion zone.
The agreement takes more account of the developing countries themselves, in this case Guinea and Mauritius, than was formerly the case.
Mr President, it seems that the Commission is happy to ignore the requests of the Council and this Parliament - the former clearly expressed at the Council of Ministers of October 1997 - and delay the work on the guidelines for the negotiation of the fisheries agreements.
The protocol with Guinea-Conakry is a good example.
Furthermore, the Commission has been prepared to ignore the principle of relative stability by casually removing from the Community fleet fishing rights that have been acquired in accordance with that principle.
I have always argued for the total exploitation of the fishing rights granted, but in all waters, not just in relation to the agreements with the southern countries.
Mr President, all of this illustrates the mental and physical chaos of our Community fishing authorities, and it will only be resolved when the guidelines which I referred to earlier are established in a clear and agreed way.
Can I first of all welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur for his work in bringing forward this report?
There is little doubt that fisheries agreements are coming under much closer scrutiny to determine what they achieve and what they deliver, not only for people in the European Union, but also for the countries with which they were concluded in the first place.
The rapporteur rightly mentioned the agreement with Morocco several times.
We cannot overlook the concern about fisheries agreements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to say a warm thank you to the rapporteur, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, for the two reports he has submitted today when the new protocol for a fisheries agreement between the European Community and the Republics of Mauritius and Guinea is up for discussion.
This new protocol is the fourth since the Framework Agreement came into force in 1990.
Licence fees for ship owners have been considerably increased, from EUR 20 to EUR 25 per tonne.
That is in line with the Council' s 1997 decision in connection with the third country agreements, whereby costs are to be distributed in a balanced way.
I should like specifically to mention at this point that a premium is to be introduced for the purpose of supporting the Guinean authorities in improving fish stocks in Guinea' s exclusive economic zone.
Finally, the protocol provides for close cooperation between both parties in administering the measures.
Monitoring is to be facilitated by means of a detailed financial report and by the Community' s ability to review payments in the light of whether or not the measures have in practice been carried out.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I would like to thank you both for the courage and open-mindedness with which you have both accepted the invitation I made to you during my official visit to the Middle East in February this year.
It has been made possible because you are both men of peace, and it is as such that Parliament welcomes you here today.
I am mindful that your visit is also due in great part to the persuasive diplomatic efforts of our fellow Member, Luisa Morgantini, Chairman of the Delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council, whom I must thank particularly for this. (Applause) It is highly significant that, in your capacities as the speakers of the two assemblies which will be required to ratify the agreements which are being drawn up, and in which negotiations you are yourselves taking part, you have opted to come together to address the European Parliament.
There is not one of us who is unaware of the complexity of the situation in the Middle East, in this land which is home to what a large part of the human race considers to be the most sacred historic sites, which are hence the most disputed sites.
Mr Avraham Burg, Speaker of the Knesset, Mr Abu Ala, Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council, the debate which you have just heard has testified to the European Union' s and, in particular, the European Parliament' s interest in the progress of the current negotiations.
Allow me to hope, without denying the major obstacles, weighty as we know them to be, during this crucial phase of the negotiations, that you will be able to assure this House that the gateway to peace will remain open and that both your nations will go through it together.
Mrs Fontaine, President of the European Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my great pleasure at the dialogue we have had this morning on the peace process and Europe' s great interest in the success of this process and in establishing a climate favourable to this peace.
Let me also express my great pleasure at seeing a great number of European leaders who have distinguished themselves in working and in continuing to work in a serious way in order to find a solution to the problem of the Middle East.
It is my very great honour, as President of the Palestinian Legislative Council, to accept your invitations to this significant meeting with the elected representatives of the nations of the European Union.
Your great experience will prove invaluable in this.
Madam President, with great respect, let me mention your important visit to Palestine and to the Legislative Council.
However, despite the divine blessing, this land has undergone many conflicts throughout history.
The twentieth century, which saw the tragedy of the Jewish people in Europe, has also borne witness to the tragedy of the Palestinian people in their own country, when the rest of the world started to look for a solution to Europe' s Jewish problem in the land of Palestine.
The Jewish State was declared on 15 May 1948, and was immediately recognised by the countries of the West, led by the countries of Europe and the United States, who granted this State all the necessary support while the Palestinian people continued to endure every form of privation, emigration, the enforced displacement of persons, and the lack of their own country, their own identity or their own State.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conflicts and the wars in our region have wrought havoc, causing destruction, desolation and enormous losses in human and material terms.
Throughout the second half of the twentieth century, the region experienced many wars and confrontations which caused death and destruction everywhere, reducing the region' s economies to war economies, undermining development operations in many countries and causing scientific and cultural backwardness in others.
Following the major problems related to Israel' s isolation from its neighbours, the permanent state of alert related to the state of war in the region and the harsh suffering of the Palestinian people remaining on Palestinian territory or becoming refugees abroad or in the camps, it was essential to take the initiative of finding an alternative to war and bloody conflict.
The peace process was launched in Madrid in 1991.
We took part in this process, driven by our sincere determination to arrive at a just peace throughout the region in general and between Palestinians and Israelis in particular.
This process is based on Resolutions 242 and 338 of the United Nations Security Council, which stipulate the inadmissibility of acquiring alien territories by force.
It is also based on the search for a fair solution to the refugee problem and on the principle of territories in exchange for peace.
The Washington talks and, similarly, those which took place in Oslo, led to an agreement in the form of a Declaration of Principles, the Oslo accords.
The PLO exchanged mutual recognition documents with the Israeli Government, in what was in my view the most significant phase in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict in general and the Palestinian-Israeli conflict in particular.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Declaration of Principles for the transitional period and for the talks on Permanent Status was drawn up on the basis of a defined philosophy and clear political principles, particularly UN Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 and their implementation, the territories in exchange for peace and a timetable for the negotiations on the permanent status.
During this phase, presidential and legislative elections would take place in the West Bank, in the Gaza Strip and the Arabic city of Jerusalem, Al-Quds.
All this was to be achieved in less than five years, by 4 May 1999, and to be crowned by the creation of an independent Palestinian State.
We accepted these accords and complied with their implementation, but unfortunately we encountered serious problems, and faced continuous attempts to break the agreements and to reject what had been agreed, and also non-compliance with the agreed schedule, particularly the third-phase troop redeployment, the withdrawal from the occupied territories and the release of all prisoners and detainees, which was supposed to be completed by the end of the interim period, on 4 May 1999.
So many elements relating to the transitional period have still not been implemented, despite the long period of time which has elapsed, increasing the suffering of the Palestinian people and jeopardising the entire peace process.
I had the opportunity to lead negotiations with the Israeli Government over the last eight years, from the initial Oslo negotiations up to the Stockholm negotiations which prepared the way for the recent Camp David Summit, via the second Oslo negotiations, the economic negotiations in Paris and the negotiations preparatory to the Wye River agreement.
For several months we have been engaged in talks to establish permanent status, even before Israel has completed its commitments under the interim period.
I am also very regretful and sorry that the Camp David Summit did not have a successful outcome, especially since it came eight months after strenuous negotiations in the region, but also in Stockholm, in Sweden, and in Washington, and followed the considerable efforts made by President Clinton and his colleagues.
Fourthly, agreement on each of the key issues, either in a framework agreement or in the definitive agreement, must include these three important principles: firstly, recognition of the principle, secondly, recognition of the mechanisms implementing the principle, thirdly, agreement on the time limit for the execution thereof.
Although both parties, Palestinians and Israelis, made considerable efforts to reconcile their positions, both during the talks or during the Camp David Summit, I must regretfully inform you that there is still a great gulf and that it will still take a lot to bridge that gulf.
Israel must recognise Palestinian sovereignty of Jerusalem and, in return, we are willing to discuss any Israeli concerns about the city, whether regarding Jerusalem as an open city, or about freedom of worship and freedom of movement within Jerusalem, or any other Israeli concerns.
You will be aware that the United Nations Organisation, the Security Council, adopted Resolution 181 to make this holy city the city of the three monotheistic religions, the city of those that believe in one God, and decided that Jerusalem would be an international city which belonged to all the nations of the world.
Otherwise, any solution would be truncated or incomplete.
The Palestinian position in this respect is based on international resolutions on the right of Palestinian refugees to return to their homes and to their property, and their right to compensation in accordance with Resolution 194 of the General Assembly of the United Nations, and on the determination of procedures, obtained following agreements, enabling them to exercise their right to return.
In addition, these resolutions call for the withdrawal of the Israeli occupation forces from Palestinian territory occupied since the June 1967 war, for the 4 June border effective before the outbreak of hostilities to be respected.
This is a further factor in maintaining the division between the two parties on this subject.
I should like to address my friend and colleague, Avraham Burg, to say that Israel was created on the basis of a Security Council resolution and not on the basis of a precept in the Torah.
Consequently, if we do not respect international legitimacy, the international community will suffer from the failure of a solution to the Middle East conflict.
Ladies and gentlemen, the overwhelming majority of countries, including the European Union, have recognised the international resolutions that the Palestinian solution is based on.
That it the situation up to and after Camp David.
We do, however, want a peace that is just, and a peace that we can defend and safeguard, a lasting peace for our children, our grandchildren and all future generations.
At this time, speaking from the rostrum of the European Parliament, sharing our problems and our future prospects, we can only express our considerable appreciation for the Euro-Mediterranean cooperation which is starting to gain ground thanks to the consolidation of economic, social, political, cultural and parliamentary relations, with a view to responding to the interests of the nations of this region.
We consider this collaboration, which benefits from your contribution, to be one of the main pillars of peace, stability and prosperity.
It is also our pleasure to express our high regard for Europe' s political and economic support for the peace plan in the region in general, and for the Palestinian people in particular, and also our appreciation of Europe' s increasing role in consolidating world peace and pushing forward the peace process in our region and throughout the world.
We are very appreciative, for example, of the position which the countries of the European Union adopted at the time of the Berlin Declaration in March 1999.
Europe has always had an important role to play throughout the world.
We welcome its involvement in the Middle East peace process.
Having abandoned its colonial heritage, the unified Europe must now play a part which is in keeping with the tradition of its culture and civilisation, calling for the principles of freedom, emancipation and human rights in a free and independent country.
From this rostrum, I would also like to address my own people, the Palestinian people, to say that peace is a great battle which awaits us.
I would like to share with you a different kind of optimism, an optimism which says that tomorrow will be even better than today and today was a perfect morning.
On behalf of so many of us in the Middle East, especially so many of us in Israel, I should like to thank you for your efforts and the efforts of the entire distinguished gathering here this morning to push forward dialogue, understanding, and the process of listening to each other in the Middle East.
I have no problem with that, but would ask only one thing, namely that you should chair it.
A meeting such as the one we are having here on the very day that the leaders of our peoples are meeting each other again in the United States of America, trying to promote another step, one more centimetre towards a better future for our children, is a crucial moment.
Not only do the leaders of our nations have the responsibility of making peace, but we, as elected representatives of our people, also bear the burden of responsibility for trying to enhance the people-to-people relationship in such a way that eventually, when peace is signed between the two sides, the people will be ready to accept the message.
More than this, for many of us in Israel, Europe is not just a continent.
For many of us in Israel Europe is a value system.
For many of us in Israel Europe is something wider than its worldly presence.
Europe for us is responsibility for the environment.
So when we are negotiating peace in the Middle East, we feel every day that we are not just doing what is good for our people, but we try harder and double our efforts because we have a sense of responsibility to the extent that the stability of our region is the key to the stability of the rest of the world.
The Middle East is the key to the stability of the world.
Both of us, for all our disagreements, are fully committed to a peaceful Middle East for our own sake and the sake of our children and the rest of the world. (Applause)It is a very personal privilege for me to share this very important European podium this morning with Abu Ala.
He is the man to whom my children and the children of his people owe so much on account of his courage, creativity, devotion and commitment to change the strategy of the Middle East from a strategy of conflict to a strategy of dialogue, understanding and acceptance of the other.
I would like, Abu Ala, to tell you what I told you when you came as my guest to the Knesset, when I met you at my home - I hope that I shall not do you any political damage back home by mentioning these things - and in all other places where we have met, namely that the Middle East of our generation is privileged to have a great man like you leading your people. (Applause)I feel very pleased to be here with you this morning.
Coming to this House after you passed the resolution on the memory of the Holocaust, first mooted in Stockholm and eventually embraced by the majority in this House; the kind of help you are giving openly and secretly, to Jews in need in distressed areas around the world; and of course your unequivocal commitment to peace encompassing various interpretations and schools of thought: all these things make me feel happy to be here this morning.
In 1948 there were seven Arab parties engaged against the newly born state of Israel.
In 1967 only three out of the seven - Egypt, Jordan and Syria - fought against us.
In 1973 only two out of the three - Syria and Egypt - were against us.
The Palestinians did not fight against us as a nation in 1948 or join the struggle against us as a belligerent in 1963, but all of a sudden - and unbelievably - we now find ourselves in the middle of negotiations.
And this will happen because of this kind of partnership and because our people and their people in the Middle East understand where the modern world is going.
All of us come from the political arena, and you know as well as I do that in politics there is no such thing as good timing.
Because Abu Ala yes, international law is very important.
But this is what I have tried to do, in my commitment to this region of the world, to the monotheistic idea, to the dialogue between religions, all because sometime in history, the founding father of my nation, Abraham, after whom I am named, came up with the concept that there is one God.
Thank God, this one God is represented by five parties in our Knesset today, but that is a different story. (Laughter)Therefore, when we are seeking practical political solutions, we have to understand that these are solutions for historical problems and people's faith and beliefs.
Practically, we have never been so close to each other, but what do we know about the icons, the symbols, the things that have been there for so many years?
I would like to say something briefly about the way we see Jerusalem.
We need to find a political compromise but also a religious compromise. (Applause)I have a feeling that the challenge of Jerusalem is the biggest political challenge ever witnessed.
King Hussein's idea was presented to all our leaders and I am pleased to say that the sides have not rejected the idea.
I do not want peace in the Middle East to be a win-lose situation.
I would like to see a Palestinian state declared on a basis of understanding and mutual acceptance and consent between the two sides, with Israel the first to recognise it in the international community.
That is what I wanted for many years before it became the official policy, not policy, the official mood in my country.
I have no problem with the Palestinian state or Abu Ala.
On the contrary, as soon as we have a Palestinian state, the dialogue between us will be a dialogue between equals.
Any issues that are not resolved now, we can deal with later on and continue the dialogue between us.
I know that many of the issues were resolved at Camp David but there are other issues that I hope we can solve.
Personally, of course, I admire him, although he does not admire me and rightly so, but the two of us can play a role in the regions.
The Palestinians have not yet had the chance to develop their own independent economy.
We would like to see Europe and the rest of the world helping both of us to improve the economic level of the region so that there is a balance between the two economies.
This will prevent frustration in the relationship between the two states and the individuals within those societies will not despair and take refuge in religious fundamentalism.
My father, who at the time was 80 years old, was in the back seat.
In his 40 years as a member of the Knesset he served in every cabinet in Israel and he was the head of the Israeli-Egyptian team that negotiated autonomy for the Palestinians.
My father was born in Dresden and lost his entire family in the Holocaust.
It is with me day in and day out and I believe there will be peace, not in my son's generation but in the generation of Abu Ala and myself: a permanent, solid, good peace for the betterment of the world. (Loud and sustained applause) Ladies and gentlemen, it is my sincere opinion that we have just witnessed a very moving moment that will, perhaps, one day be seen as a historic moment.
When he met you, the Norwegian negotiators introduced you as 'enemy number one' , and yet after the very tough negotiations, you went to visit him in Tel Aviv, and you went for a walk on the sea front, he says, away from all the media pressure, and, ahead of the thinking of the time, discussed how, after the historic breakthrough in Oslo, you might establish a sustainable and equitable peace, as you have said.
You have clearly understood that you will have the European Parliament at your side, and that is why you are here today.
