Russia: attacks on human rights defenders, and the Anna Politkovskaya murder trial The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Russia.
We, in the European Parliament, are concerned by the current situation in that great country.
I also think that a clause on human rights should feature in fundamental agreements between the European Union and Russia.
This debate should remind us of our shared responsibility for the alarming regression in the field of democracy and human rights in Russia.
On 3 December 2008, 17 Russian human rights groups sent a joint statement to the EU.
The Russian people deserve to enjoy the same values and justice we do.
On 4 December, Russian public prosecutors organised a raid on the offices of the Memorial organisation, during which a database containing the details of thousands of victims of Stalin's regime was seized.
The trials concerning the murders of Anna Politkovskaya and Alexander Litvinienko indicate that the Russian authorities are trying to prevent a fair outcome and that they are trying to prevent the world from knowing who ordered the killings.
I strongly protest against violations of human rights in Russia.
One of the things that the raid on the Research and Information Centre 'Memorial' in Saint Petersburg on 4 December shows is that the current leadership is obviously seeking to throw off the burden of the country's Stalinist legacy and to gloss over Stalin's terror.
Madam President, Russia is too important for us not to be concerned about what is happening in that country.
The Resolution highlights the numerous and shocking assassinations of human rights activists, or people regarded as inconvenient by the national or local authorities for other reasons.
The people responsible for these killings are allowed to disappear from the country, as in the case of Anna Politkovskaya's killers, or are allowed to hide behind their parliamentary privilege, as in the case of Alexander Litvinyenko's murderers.
Mr Gasayev fled to Spain, where he sought asylum in 2005.
If Murat Gasayev is extradited, there is a very real danger that he will be subjected to torture and other forms of ill-treatment once he is in Russian custody.
What happens in Russia is very important to Europe for these reasons.
In our negotiations on an agreement, we owe this to the people - Anna Politkovskaya, Alexander Litvinenko and many others - who have died for daring to investigate these aberrations or call a spade a spade.
After all, that is the only language they understand, as Elena Bonner made clear in her moving speech yesterday.
I believe that we should communicate our appeal within the context of the relations and the meetings between the Russian Government and our European Commission. - (PL) Madam President, today we are discussing human rights violations, such as Mrs Politkovskaya's murder, as well as other incidents which have taken place in Russia, and which are indicative of the state's policy of terrorism against its own people.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, on 5 November, in his first annual speech to the Federation Council, President Medvedev made explicit reference to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
The reality of the last few weeks has reminded us once again of the major challenges faced by human rights defenders in Russia.
The search of 4 December is a worrying message for those who believe in the need for a debate, and an honest one at that, on the deep wounds of the past.
This debate is needed to ensure necessary reconciliations in the future.
The Commission is continuing its work in support of the initiatives of civil society, not least through the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
Support for judicial reform is also a priority in our cooperation programmes with Russia.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - Severe human rights violations persist in the ongoing Yukos affair.
Five years after Mikhail Khodorkovsky's arrest, he and other Yukos officials remain incarcerated under questionable circumstances.
Of gravest concern is the case of former Yukos lawyer Vasily Alexanyan, held in pre-trial detention since 2006.
Now near death suffering from AIDS, lymphatic cancer and tuberculosis, Alexanyan has stated that he refused to submit to blackmail to provide false testimony against Khodorkovsky in exchange for medical treatment.
The handling of these and several other cases exposes deep weaknesses in Russia's justice system.
in writing. - (FI) Russia is a member of the Council of Europe and of the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), and is, or at least it should be on the basis of its membership, fully committed to a respect for human rights.
The situation for human rights activists is a serious concern, as are the problems that NGOs that promote human rights have to face.
