Culture in a globalising world (debate) The next item is the report by Vasco Graça Moura, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on a European agenda for culture in a globalising world.
We therefore suggest that the year 2011 be considered 'European Year of the Greek and Latin Classics' in order to make the peoples of the Union and the rest of the world more aware of this essential aspect of cultural heritage now in danger of being forgotten.
We cannot measure it in kilos or tonnes but it is about the future of our unity, of our communities at local, regional and national, as well as European, level.
The three basic areas are important, and were also mentioned in the previous report: creative industries; cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue; and, equally important, the external dimension - external cooperation in culture and culture in the Union's external policy.
In the Year of Intercultural Dialogue it is worth pointing out that the European Union should, in putting into practice the values of intercultural dialogue, be open to other cultures.
Madam President, I was supposed to be making a further speech in just a moment, so I would like to request another 10 seconds this time round, if I may, and then I shall not get up a second time.
Thank you, too, to the Commission for presenting this communication on the European agenda for culture.
on behalf of the PSE. - (ET) Colleagues, our colleague Vasco Graça Moura has carried out some excellent work in compiling a report which refers both to cultural heritage and future needs, to common principles and specific initiatives.
In order for our diplomatic representatives to be able to represent our cultures properly, the cultural dimension should be consistently incorporated into our external policy.
Emphasising the significance of this event will make it easier to perceive the part played by all the outstanding European musicians - Mozart, Liszt, Handel, Haydn, Schumann, Verdi, Grieg, Berlioz, Paganini and many others - in the creation of European civilisation and in its contribution to world culture.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, the interesting thing in this paper on a European agenda for culture in a globalising world is that it really asserts the strategic claim not only to organise cultural policy as a sector, but that culture should be an integral part of various European policy fields, such as foreign policy, urban development policy and Structural Funds policy.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) A globalised world implies global culture.
Multinational companies have turned our cities into a common marketplace so that sometimes we do not know whether we are in Paris or in Prague.
Once again the central role of culture in European integration and in the worldwide image of the European Union is being highlighted.
We urgently need this cultural strategy in order, for example, not only to be continually referring to our cultural diversity with pride, but also to be able to cope with the challenge of dealing with this diversity and the problems that arise.
President Barroso announced a task force for culture back in November 2005 in Budapest, which could be an important signal to the outside world, but has not so far been implemented.
Creating a parallel with the European Union, in order to know and understand European culture in a globalized world, we should learn the history of European construction, especially since, as of 2009, the new Treaty of the European Union will become effective, we will all be European citizens and each citizen has the obligation to know his/her history.
Since the European Parliament has just celebrated half a century of existence, I believe it deserves to have a history that promotes cultural identity and European culture in the context of globalization. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly welcome this report because it shows that this Europe is growing together and that culture plays a very special role in this.
Many of the points in this report - paragraphs 10, 25, 26, and 46 about 2011 being the 'European Year of the Greek and Latin Classics' - are very interesting.
I am grateful for the report. (CS) The European Union has a duty to safeguard Europe's cultural wealth because our cultural heritage must be preserved, disseminated and shared both within and outside the Union.
The Community's existing cultural programmes do not fully reflect the scope of our common European cultural heritage.
Second, it is in the European Union's best interests to promote culture and intercultural dialogue at an adequate level in its foreign policy.
Member of the Commission. - (SK) Thank you for the debate and in particular for the positive, constructive atmosphere.
The second point was raised by Mrs Mikko, and concerns the cultural dimension that should be incorporated in Europe's external policy, not merely European Union culture but the culture of the Member States - it is absolutely essential.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I wish to use this opportunity to outline some major issues presented in the Graça Moura report on the 'European agenda for culture in a globalising world'.
The Culture Programme is good, but is not enough, and I support the idea that we should have other programmes alongside it, more focused on the preservation and promotion of European cultural heritage.
in writing. - (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the efforts of the Commission in proposing an agenda for culture enabling a European strategy to be pursued both within the European Union and in the EU's relations with third countries.
Furthermore, we must ensure that regulations governing commercial (Internet) relations are open and transparent to ensure fair market access, thereby allowing European cultural industries to develop all their potential, particularly in the audiovisual and musical sectors.
