The protection of critical infrastructure is, of course, a priority for the European Commission as well as for the Member States, not least because the need to protect critical infrastructure from the eventuality of a terrorist attack, for instance, derives from the very nature of such infrastructures and the interconnection and interdependence between them.
I also agree with the proposal to amend the list of critical infrastructure protection sectors given in Annex I to the proposal for a directive.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, back in June 2004, the Council tabled a request in which the Commission was asked to prepare a general strategy to protect critical infrastructure.
Common action can, in my view, only be justified if at least three Member States were to experience adverse effects, or at least two Member States other than those in which the critical infrastructure is located.
Existing criteria and mechanisms must therefore be taken into consideration.
I am therefore very grateful to the Commissioner for his observations on this matter and on the other amendments and for the fact that he has shown his satisfaction.
I would like to have a reaction, however, to the definition of two to three Member States, because this is the most important amendment in my view.
Crisis protection is not therefore only a national matter but requires European crisis management, as the Commission proposes.
The Directorate General for the Market must be guided by that and not by short-sighted wishes expressed by industry.
It is, however, extremely difficult to say where the European competence lies in this matter, what must be organised at European level and where particular devolved tasks must be dealt with.
It was important for us not to go for a comitology procedure, and I am grateful to the Commissioner for accommodating Parliament on this.
I also want to say that it was important for us that unnecessary bureaucracy should be avoided, that a contact point in the Member States should do the designating and identifying and that no new bureaucracies should be created, that administrative costs should be reined in and that there should be plenty of flexibility.
We hope that, with the proposal that will be put to the vote tomorrow, we will be able to continue moving forward and that with both what Parliament is proposing - and I am grateful for the great work by Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert and all of the honourable Members - and with what the Council is proposing, we will be able to achieve better protection of our critical European infrastructures.
However, I would like to say that this topic has to be highlighted from a security point of view, because it is hard to imagine what the lives of European citizens would be like without the Internet.
Whether the Internet is European or whether it belongs to one country we cannot say - it is a world-wide web, and of course, to define how to protect the web from an attack that could be carried out at any minute is rather complicated and the level of debate has to be quite different.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, no one in this House disputes that close cooperation between the Member States is very important and necessary for countering terrorist risks.
This committee is calling into question Article 308 of the EC Treaty, which focuses on the interim enhancement of powers, as a legal basis, and considers the protection of critical infrastructure to be first of all a national affair.
It is clear that responsibility for critical infrastructures must rest with the Member States.
In the military sphere, NATO has had such lists of critical infrastructures for 40 years and relevant scenarios have long been provided for in anticipation of military crises. (SV) I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a constructive report and an efficient piece of work.
The issue from the rapporteur's proposal that I wish to address is that of whether three or more Member States should have to be affected by disruption or destruction, or whether it is enough that two be so affected.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while I am grateful to all the speakers, including the rapporteur, I am afraid I have a few concerns about accepting the rather restrictive approach that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has tried to put across.
As certain Members have rightly pointed out - Mrs Segelström was the last, and there were others - restricting the minimum threshold for defining a European infrastructure to just three or more Member States would, in my view, have two drawbacks, the first of which would be to prevent the smaller European Member States from taking part in the critical infrastructure protection programme.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 11 July 2007.
