Development of the Community's railways - Certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the railway system in the Community - Rail passengers' rights and obligations (debate) The next item is a joint debate on the report by Georg Jarzembowski on behalf of the European Parliament Delegation to the Conciliation Committee on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 91/440/EEC on the development of the Community's railways and Directive 2001/14/EEC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure (PE-CONS 3635/2007 - -, and the report by Gilles Savary on behalf of the European Parliament Delegation to the Conciliation Committee on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the railway system in the Community (PE-CONS 3636/2007 - - and the report by Dirk Sterckx on behalf of the European Parliament Delegation to the Conciliation Committee on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on rail passengers' rights and obligations (PE-CONS 3637/2007 - -.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tonight we can all be satisfied with the overall result of the railways package.
As rapporteur on the progress of Community legislation on the development of the railways I may not be particularly happy, but when we look at the results we have achieved in regard to passenger rights, in particular compensation payments for train delays and the Europe-wide certification of train drivers, we can on the whole be satisfied.
The good news is that as of 1 January 2010 the national rail networks must be opened up for use by all railway undertakings providing international passenger services, without any discrimination, whether the undertakings are public or private.
One unsatisfactory result of the conciliation procedure is that because of the strong resistance by the Council it did not prove possible also to open up the national railway networks for national railway services, which means that the European internal market for railway services remains incomplete.
To be honest, however, the reason for that lies in the vote we ourselves held in this Parliament on 18 January this year.
The majority of Members voted in favour of the opening up of networks for national rail services too, but we did not reach the required qualified majority of 393 votes on that Thursday.
Nonetheless, in the conciliation procedure Parliament did manage to ensure that the new directive requires the European Commission to submit a report by 31 December 2012 in which it also proposes measures for further opening up the passenger rail market.
For the record, I would ask Vice-President Barrot to repeat his commitment to submit a report by 31 December 2012 and also to take further steps to open up the rail market.
We want European freight trains - here the networks have already been opened up - and now also international passenger trains to be able to operate regardless of national borders, because we want efficient rail services.
Here we and the rapporteur have jointly managed to persuade the Commission to undertake to submit a report, two and a half years after the directive enters into force, on the possibility of introducing uniform European certification of those employees too, to ensure that we do not have any safety deficit in this area of international rail services either.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, allow me to say at the outset that I share the general satisfaction with this Railway Package.
We started work in 2004 and here we are now in September 2007.
We are also indebted to the European Commission, and I should like to thank Commissioner Barrot and his colleagues for their cooperation at difficult stages, because the conciliation procedure was extremely tricky and the odds appeared to be against us.
In that regard, I would also pay tribute to the work done by Dirk Sterckx.
I am grateful to Mr Jarzembowki's group, which does not always take such an open approach on these matters but which, in this case, was particularly supportive.
Not all of us will achieve the same level of readiness and, moreover, even when we have our impressive directives in place, there will be entire countries that will still not open their networks.
All in all I think we reached an honourable compromise in our discussions with the Council.
These are guarantees that the railway companies are obliged to give everyone from the end of 2009.
I think Gilles Savary's report on train driver certification is an important step forward.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 and 20 June 2007, following long and tough negotiations, particularly on the question of passengers' rights, the conciliation committee finally reached agreement.
If necessary, Mr Jarzembowski, the Commission report will also propose complementary measures to facilitate the gradual opening up of the market.
The second focus of negotiation was the levying of a charge towards the financing of public services.
A number of Member States hoped that all rail services within their territory, whether national or international and irrespective of their providers, would contribute collectively to the financing of public passenger transport services, via the levying of a charge.
The compromise reached in the conciliation committee took on board several elements from Parliament's second reading.
That brings me, Mr Savary, to the certification of train staff.
With regard to the field of application, I think we have found the best solution.
I will move on now, Mr Sterckx, to rail passengers' rights and obligations.
However, a large number of Member States felt that this would pose major difficulties, particularly when it came to applying the regulation to local services, the characteristics of which are quite different from those of international or long-distance services.
Just because someone is wearing a uniform, that does not mean he can or should have or claim any powers.
In the Sterckx report the European Parliament set itself very ambitious objectives overall.
The compromise that was reached with difficulty during conciliation did not entirely achieve that aim, but it almost did.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner Barrot, perhaps I could start by saying that our objective in the European Parliament and in the European Union is to serve the people well and, as regards transport policy, to try to provide some genuine opportunities for growth, to give railways a new culture of growth and development, giving them an entrepreneurial nature and organisation and new opportunities for market growth.
The package that has been presented to us fulfils these two fundamental objectives.
The first fundamental issue is the field of application of the new regulation, which relates to international railway passenger services.
The third very important aspect is the report assessing the effects of this liberalisation in 2012.
This is very important.
The work relating to this legislation and Parliament's proposals concerning passenger rights has actually inspired the rail companies in my own country, Denmark, to voluntarily implement rules on passenger compensation.
This means that commuters are now also entitled to compensation when they are affected by delays, which does happen on occasion, of course.
Commuters are very important; we will secure good conditions and ensure that they experience rail transport as a good alternative to other, more energy-intensive forms of transport.
However, there are also some rail companies that are taking up the challenge and modernising and creating new organisational forms that secure effective door-to-door transport through the use of several modes of transport.
I feel that the result that we have achieved is a step forward, and I would like to thank all three rapporteurs for their efforts.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Barrot for his fundamental role in achieving a step along the path towards improving the efficiency of rail transport in Europe.
Certainly, nobody is completely satisfied - not the rapporteurs, businesses, Parliament or the Council - but the best compromises are always those in which none of the parties can consider themselves to be one hundred per cent victorious.
As a whole, the operation of the entire package in the European Union is, as a result, partially restricted: it does not operate across the whole of the enlarged European Union and some Member States are, overall, little affected.
Thank you. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Barrot, the report now before us is a third-reading compromise and can broadly be described as a victory for the European Parliament over the Council, over the Member States that are often over-protective of their national rail authorities and shield them off.
Since a short while ago, anybody caught without a ticket on an Italian train actually has to pay a EUR 50 fine.
In Switzerland the passenger really is treated like a favoured customer whom the railway administration serves, instead of being regarded as a nuisance and often merely as a disruptive factor for the railway.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, the three reports presented again at third reading as the third railway package are concerned with a variety of very different issues.
On passengers' rights in international rail transport, we have let an opportunity slip.
The European Commission put forward a good proposal to provide a good long-distance service, as before, in respect of ticket sales and information.
Because there is no better alternative at the moment, and because we approve other parts of these proposals, we shall vote in favour of this end result.
For my Group, the third part remains the most controversial.
This means that the poorer working conditions in freight transport by road and air also become the norm in rail transport.
We do not agree that competition is a better answer than good cooperation between national railway undertakings to the problems in international freight transport or even passenger transport.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, harmonisation of railways across 27 states has very little attraction to the UK.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that rail transport has always been the poor relation compared with road transport.
Of my colleague Dirck Sterckx's report concerning rail passengers' rights and obligations I would say that it is essentially sound, focusing as it does on the protection of passengers, with measures including compensation when trains are late, a right to transport for people with reduced mobility, and carrier liability for passengers and their baggage.
However, if we want to step up the development of passenger traffic on the railways, this measure, which is attractive not only financially but also in terms of savings on travel time in comparison with road transport, would undoubtedly give us a strong card in the rail-versus-road battle. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I do not know if the same sayings are used in other countries, but in Poland people say that the railways are a state within a state, or that no one has yet won a battle with the railways.
Speaking personally, I am especially glad that we have successfully approved an equally important proposal on the liberalisation of rail passenger transport.
We want to open up the market in international passenger transport and make it more attractive, but without fully liberalising domestic passenger transport.
It is also unfortunate that long-distance domestic transport can enjoy exemption from this Regulation for up to 15 years, but it is certain that within two years all passengers on international trains will have a number of basic rights and that some Member States will emerge as trendsetters by making good use of the lengthy transitional period.
It is similar to the change concerning passengers' rights to financial compensation for delayed trains.
Today the situation in the European Union from this point of view is certainly better than in India and Russia (I have personal experience of these), but the European taxpayer is still unable, in practice, to demand compensation if the railway works badly.
For railway passengers we are talking about 25% of the ticket price for a delay of less than two hours and 50% of the ticket price for delays of over two hours.
Several months down the road my conclusion is that the agreement reached with the Council represents a constructive step towards further completion of the European rail transport market, in several important respects.
The end-agreement between Council and Parliament reflects a good balance between efforts to resolve existing problems and a realistic scenario for the future as regards expanding the scope of the present agreements.
Thanks to their efforts we are a little closer to a common European rail market.
It should be noted that this process will now be followed up because the opening up of the railways market is to be the subject of a new Commission communication, scheduled for 2012.
All in all, it is extremely important that the final agreement reflected in the Jarzembowski report preserves the Commission's right to decide what proposal it will submit for the final stage.
In this sector, secure and sustainable as we know it and want it to be, it is essential that we proceed in a secure and sustainable manner.
Finally, there remains the great challenge of a European rail network for goods transport - the Commission's forthcoming proposals for a dedicated goods transport network - and all the logistical support required in order to make the European nodes that are being established today into a real transport network for the future. (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Jarzembowski for his work in preparing a text for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the development of the Community's railways and on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges.
It has been a great victory on the part of the European Parliament that this part of the rail package will apply not only to international but also to domestic services.
It means all travellers have a right to information about rail services both before and during the journey.
I thank the rapporteurs and all those who conducted the negotiations during the conciliation procedure and recommend endorsing this package. (PT) Mr President, Mr Barrot, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the certification of train drivers is an important step forward Community transport legislation, one which is capable of kick-starting the revitalisation of the Community rail network, and Gilles Savary has played a vital role in this process.
The revitalisation of rail transport in the European Union makes an important contribution towards a sustainable transport system and towards the creation of the single European market.
This legislation will therefore strengthen the railways component of the single market, especially as regards international passenger transport, an area which is covered by the proposal for a directive to open up the market for international passenger services by rail.
The report on a joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the rail network in the Community therefore establishes specific legal provisions recognising professional attainment with a view to ensuring the mobility of train drivers throughout Europe and at the same time improving the mobility of international rail travel in the European Union.
Finally I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs Dirk Stercks and Georg Jarzembowski and, last but not least, Gilles Savary, for all their hard work.
Some of the rapporteurs, Mr President, may feel they have to make the best of a bad job, having hoped to achieve far more, but I think the result we have is commendable in all respects.
Mr President, we have had a substantial debate on the liberalisation of rail transport.
Not only with the Council, but here in Parliament too.
I am happy with the outcome.
Mr President, the differences between Member States are too great to impose the national liberalisation of domestic rail links in a 'top-down' manner from Europe, because busy regional networks are fragile and there has to be scope for putting put these out to private tender.
I am happy with that outcome.
It is cautious competition, but appropriate to these complex networks, I think.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to welcome the fact that the inter-institutional Conciliation Committee has managed to reach agreement, and that the market in international rail passenger transport services within the European Union will therefore be opened up in 2010.
We therefore need to support their development efforts and we must allow them time to become competitive so that they are able to hold their own in the battle to win passengers.
In view of these issues, the implementation report due in 2012 will be especially important, as will the companies' annual reports.
For this stage, a distinction is still necessary and is an important step in creating an integrated railway network in the European Union.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank all the speakers, whose contributions illustrate the extent of this shared desire to develop the use of our railways significantly.
So I will submit a report towards the end of 2007 on the development of service quality and on suitable measures to tackle the problems.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 25 September 2007.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) I am very pleased that Parliament and the Council have managed to reach agreement on the third Railway Package.
The third Railway Package provides for liberalisation of international passenger services from 2010 onwards, with a viable mechanism for financing infrastructure.
Parliament has also secured a significant improvement in passengers' basic rights on both international and national lines: there are provisions for liability in the event of accidents, and rights for people with disabilities or reduced mobility.
in writing. - (HU) One hundred and sixty years ago, in 1846, the first Hungarian railway line was opened between the old city of Pest and the town of Vác.
At least half a million people commute to Budapest daily for work or study.
