Strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet (debate) - The next item is the report by Stavros Lambrinidis, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet.
This means that private companies can compile similar 'files', can create a profile for me, of the policies in which I believe, of my eating habits and even of my health.
Let me assure you that the Commission continues to be committed to strengthening citizens' fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular to ensuring a high level of protection of privacy and personal data, both on the Internet and in other contexts.
Amendment 4 restores the recommendation of the Committee on Culture for there to be a fair balance between the rights and the freedoms of all parties concerned and for all the fundamental rights of persons, based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, to be safeguarded and protected within the framework of the broad use of the Internet.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (RO) This report is the result of collaboration between the members of this Chamber.
However, the key issues in this context are, for example, the fact that the Swedish Conservative Government has adopted the so-called FRA law, a law that deals with the scrutiny of citizens who are not criminals and have not committed a crime, whereas it should instead be the citizens who scrutinise us.
The report is a strong criticism of the Swedish Conservative Government, which defied all criticism and introduced this FRA law in Sweden.
Otherwise they will be in opposition to the European Parliament and the elected representatives of the 27 countries of the EU.
This report, which addresses the important questions of the information society, is an important step towards creating an Internet which guarantees both security for our citizens and their fundamental freedoms.
He has tried to involve Europol and makes clear that the current laws of the physical world must also apply to the virtual world.
Some of us can be glad that the Internet did not exist when we were still 13, 14, 15 or 16 years old, when we committed the sins of youth which we would not now want to find on YouTube or Facebook.
I am well aware that for many Members the report does not go far enough in respect of the protection of intellectual property and copyright.
Let us work on that with the IP enforcement directive and highlight these points in that directive.
I am delighted that we have a balanced report here which takes account of the demands of an information society and I would be delighted if both my and other groups gave this report the broadest possible support tomorrow, so that we can develop an Internet in the interests of society.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, other Members have already said this, but I would like to reiterate that the Internet should not be criminalised or censored because it provides opportunities for communication, socialisation, information and knowledge, but there is nonetheless a need to develop a global strategy to combat cybercrime.
In particular, we must protect children and educate and inform parents and teachers about the new potential dangers of the web.
I assume that protection of our fundamental rights as per this report will also receive support when we take a decision on the telecom package.
The Internet is therefore an important factor in our democratic society today and so should it remain.
The sex industry today uses the Internet and the sexual violence that many women and children suffer.
The security services of various countries have traded the personal data that they have obtained by monitoring the Internet.
I firmly believe that it is the Member States that should decide what constitutes a crime and what, if any, consequences it may have.
Finally, I would like to say that any attempt to legislate in these areas is going to be difficult, as technology changes much more rapidly than politics. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking on my suggestion, encouraging computer software manufacturers to take additional measures blocking access to pornographic and violent websites.
It is a fact of life that our children are often more computer literate than we are.
If, by default, the filter was pre-installed in the 'on' position, it is probable that many more children - including the youngest, who increasingly use the Internet unsupervised - would be protected from unwittingly stumbling on sites which have a damaging influence on them.
I wish to extend my congratulations to Mr Lambrinidis and the whole team who contributed to producing this report. - (NL) Mr President, I should like to add my compliments to those already paid to the rapporteur, who has prepared a fantastic report.
The report raises the important issue of finding a balance between security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet.
The Internet cannot be a virtual space where an act that constitutes an offence in the real world is deemed permissible, and even protected simply by the effect of technology and the way in which it is used.
I therefore believe that the Lambrinidis report covers these concerns.
The right balance must be struck between freedom of access to the Internet, respect for privacy and protection of intellectual property.
I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to endorse my Amendments 2 to 6. - (EL) Mr President, it has almost become a habit for us to examine a report on the Internet in every plenary.
This is a good thing, because it gives the Member States and the European Union an opportunity at last to address effectively these topical issues relating to the use of the Internet.
The Internet is a world where facts appear which are not explicitly defined as violations of rights and freedoms or as crimes against them.
Firstly, I wish to refer to protection of personal data and protection of confidentiality in connection with e-voting, which enables people with disabilities to exercise their rights as citizens.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to thank all the speakers for their committed and interesting contributions.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 26 March 2009.
It has increased our ability to access knowledge, aided our understanding of the world around us and reinforced our social connections to other people.
It is well known that the Internet is increasingly difficult to control, but protecting the fundamental right to privacy on the Internet and ensuring the Internet is more secure must feature among the priorities of Member State governments.
This is why, in order to limit these abuses, it is our duty to define standards for data protection, security and freedom of expression at both European and Member State level.
I must finish by saying that the right to education and Internet access, as well as the security and the protection of the rights of those who use Internet services must be guaranteed.
