Facility providing mid-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments - Facility providing mid-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mrs Pervenche Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs, on a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balance of payments - C6-0134/2009 - and the statements by the Council and the Commission on a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balance of payments.
Madam President, the European Council has decided to double the 'balance of payments' facility for countries outside the euro zone, and on 8 April the Commission introduced the concrete provisions designed to turn this proposal into a reality.
Here at the European Parliament we wish to accept our responsibilities and to enable the Ecofin Council to act promptly for, as we see it, this proposal contains a sign of solidarity towards non-member countries of the euro zone that is of vital importance for tackling the root of this crisis.
We feel that this is necessary, and we have held a debate among ourselves, which I will not hide from you, to learn whether this assessment of countries outside the euro zone should be done exclusively on a case-by-case basis, or whether, in reality, there was basically a more global situation that was that of countries outside the euro zone.
Lastly, we identify in this mechanism evidence of the ability of the European Union and of the Commission to borrow on the international markets, and we therefore believe that we have here a useful foundation on which to base a debate that we are also conducting on European borrowing and on the capacity of the European Union to finance future strategies and investments through such borrowing.
Already earmarked financial assistance under the regulation thus adds up to around EUR 15 billion.
The European Council of 19 and 20 March therefore welcomed the announcement by President Barroso that the Commission intended to make a proposal for increasing the ceiling of the Community's balance of payments support to EUR 50 billion.
The extension of the total possible credit line to EUR 50 billion will provide a large buffer to cater for further possible needs for financial support.
The Commission adopted this proposal just before the Easter holidays on 8 April and only two weeks later you are now about to vote your legislative resolution and motion for resolution in plenary.
Thanks to your swift and efficient work, the ECOFIN Council will be able to adopt the amended regulation on 5 May.
I would like to conclude by saying that I agree with the statement in your draft motion for a resolution that the current international situation proves the relevance of the euro and that all Member States outside the euro area should be encouraged to fulfil the Maastricht criteria in order to join it.
After all, the EUR 25 billion available so far could comfortably cover the cost of the urgent assistance given to Romania.
On the other hand, we should also examine carefully - as we already requested the Commission to do in November, but without any success - what has led to this situation.
That is also why we welcomed the financial assistance ceiling being raised from EUR 12 billion to EUR 25 billion, and now to EUR 50 billion.
The increase in the European Union medium-term financial assistance mechanism to EUR 50 billion is the response that is needed to the current situation.
Commissioner Almunia explained to Mr Becsey that it was the Hungarian Government itself that had requested aid from the IMF, but not from the European Union, and that it was the European Union that said: 'But we too can help you'.
Thus, in the Berès report - which we shall, in any case, vote for - there are two things that bother us.
Firstly, what is the point of saying in paragraph 4 that we must commit ourselves to inter-country solidarity only to then point out in paragraph 11 that under no circumstances are we bound by a country's commitments?
We are in a crisis, and it is high time we were given a legal basis. (DE) Mr President, I should like to start by thanking Mrs Berès for the speed with which she produced a draft report.
At this stage, we in the committee were unanimous in our view that the increase from EUR 12 to 25 to 50 billion was the right step to take.
Therefore, our group will be supporting the proposal as a whole - both the proposal for a regulation and the motion for a resolution.
Therefore, the limit of EUR 50 billion is completely justifiable at present.
If new challenges should present themselves, we shall not be able to close our eyes to them. (PL) Mr President, I would like to express emphatic support for the Commission's proposal to double the amount of financial aid permissible for new Member States which are not in the euro zone.
I would like to thank the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council for their joint decision in favour of boosting solidarity and efficiency.
The use of Article 100 as the basis for a new instrument on EU balance of payment assistance has been considered by the Commission.
Commissioner, on the matter of Article 100, the problem is not one of knowing whether Article 100 is going to be used here, but of knowing whether we in the European Union are finally providing ourselves with all the tools to tackle the reality of this crisis and its potential future developments.
We believe that the Commission must implement the secondary legislation so that, in future, it may be able to use Article 100 in order to tackle problems within the euro zone for which the EUR 50 billion to be voted on today could not be used.
The vote will take place on Friday 24 April. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m.
