Recovery of cod stocks (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Busk, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 423/2004 as regards the recovery of cod stocks and amending Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 - C6-0183/2008 - rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has presented a good, constructive proposal for amending the existing recovery plan for cod in, for example, the North Sea, Skagerrak and Kattegat.
The Celtic Sea has been included in the recovery plan because new evaluations indicate that cod stocks are also being overexploited there and are in a poor state.
Now to specifics.
On Amendment 2, I agree with the principle, but the powers of the Commission and Council are already established in the EC Treaty, and the role of the regional advisory councils is set out in Article 31 of the basic regulation.
On Amendment 3 regarding discard reduction, I have been working on a separate initiative.
You will be aware of the Commission's communication of spring 2007 concerning discarding.
On Amendment 7, I accept that, for stocks in very high-risk situations, a limit of 15% on TAC increases should apply.
On Amendment 10, the chapter rightly refers to a limitation of fishing effort.
On Amendment 11, I can reconsider the base line for the calculation of kilowatt days.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, this evening, we are discussing the Busk report on the Commission proposals for a quicker recovery of cod stocks in European waters.
For more than 18 months, cod stocks in the North Sea have been enjoying a remarkable recovery.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Members for the interesting debate which demonstrates the commitment of Parliament to the recovery of cod.
Indeed, Parliament's report largely concurs with and supports the Commission proposal to make our current plan more flexible and effective and at the same time more comprehensive.
This has already happened twice in the last 15 years - once in the Irish Sea and once in the North Sea - where we took premature action rewarding a particular year class and ended up with a situation where we had to start again from scratch.
It is therefore crucial that we act in a way whereby responsible management will tell us that we should do our utmost in order to reduce effort by various measures and various means, and at the same time see to it that discards of cod are reduced.
Concerning the point made on cod in the Baltic Sea, although this is not part of this cod recovery plan we did introduce a cod recovery plan in the Baltic Sea in 2007.
rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and my fellow Members for their enormous effort and extremely constructive amendments, which were absolutely necessary to make this recovery plan as complete as possible.
Where cod is concerned, there is, for example, a lack of detailed statistics concerning catches from vessels less than 8 metres in length.
