Violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The EU has long made efforts to bring about peace and stability in the country.
It is important that this commitment continues, both politically and in terms of development.
At the same time, armed groups are re-emerging in other parts of the country.
The eastern part of the country remains an area in which international law and human rights are being infringed.
The Council recently condemned these acts in its conclusions and emphasised that the government of the Democratic Republic of Congo must ensure that all those responsible are brought to justice.
We will continue our wide-ranging commitment in the country and will continue to speak plainly wherever international law and human rights are infringed.
That being said, the solution to a large part of the problem must also be found in the DRC.
The problem is that things cannot be done in isolation.
Political will can play a crucial role here, and in this regard, we must welcome the commitment made by President Kabila to take a zero tolerance approach.
Mr President, practically every journalist who writes about Africa would like to be the next Joseph Conrad.
I, myself, was an observer during the elections, and we were all pleased because, after a gap of 40 years, democratic elections were taking place in that large and important country.
It is hard not to ask the question why this has happened, and why the elections did not result in a better life for Congo.
If we can put a stop to this, we will be closer to our goal.
In the conflict since 1998, over 5 000 400 people have lost their lives and, indirectly or directly, as many as 45 000 deaths occur every month.
It is reported that there are 1 460 000 internally displaced people, most of them facing violence, and let me give a voice to those who do not have a voice, those who suffer such violence.
The armed actors in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) have perpetrated gender-based violence through various forms, including sexual slavery, kidnapping, forced recruitment, forced prostitution and rape.
The Congolese victims of sexual violence include women, men and boys who have also suffered rape, sexual humiliation and genital mutilation.
The zero tolerance policy recently introduced by President Kabila clearly must be welcomed, but whether it is respected and implemented or not is another matter.
The Congolese authorities, too, have a big responsibility in this fight against impunity concerning acts of sexual violence, crimes which, I might add, should be brought before the International Criminal Court.
Two war criminals were recently brought before the war crimes tribunal in The Hague and development projects and elections were able to take place - a partial success, at least.
Essentially, we need a coordinated European security policy and peace-keeping operations, but above all, in the area surrounding Europe and not in far-off Africa, where the ethnic fronts are unclear.
The blame for this whole tragedy lies both with the Congolese army and Rwandan rebels.
This is why I believe that the European Union must discuss urgently how the UN forces in the Congo are going to achieve properly the mission objectives that have been assigned them.
It is my view, therefore, that there is now a most urgent need for us not only to take action, put an end to impunity, pay on the nail and provide the resources for the actions we have announced, but also to show that we are extending a hand to the people there, that we stand in solidarity with them and are not leaving them in the lurch; that we are shouldering our moral responsibility. (RO) At the present juncture, which also coincides with the moment when the United Nations is preparing to announce the extension of MONUC's mandate, I think we need to reflect on the international community's actions in light of the situation on the ground in the RDC, which is, unfortunately, continuing to deteriorate.
The European Parliament must strongly assert that acts of violence, particularly sexual violence, and human rights violations in general, as well as the abuses committed in Kivu, must stop immediately, along with the climate of impunity. (ES) Mr President, other Members have already spoken of the tragic situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
I welcome the recent determination shown by the Congolese authorities to put a stop to this impunity, but this zero tolerance policy must be ambitious - all perpetrators of violence, without exception, will have to answer for their actions - and truly effective.
The security situation of the civilian populations deteriorated following, among other things, the joint military operations conducted by the Congolese army and the Ugandan and Rwandan troops against all the rebel armed groups, operations which left countless massacres and human rights violations in their wake.
A rapid response by the European Union is therefore crucial. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all the speakers have rightly emphasised the terrible situation in which the Congolese people, and especially Congolese women, are living in the east of that country.
President Kabila's zero tolerance policy is today tentatively beginning to bear fruit, but everyone is aware that only a global strategy can combat this scourge in the long term.
Unfortunately, in the light of the constant acts of violence and the human rights violations in the east of the DRC, we are obliged once again to strongly condemn the massacres, the crimes against humanity and the acts of sexual violence committed against women and girls that are still taking place in the eastern province.
These are both signs of improvement in the situation in eastern Congo.
The situation is that we have a beautiful people, victims of European colonisation, victims of tribal conflict, victims of international blindness, and we cannot be blind any longer.
Nonetheless, there is a feeling - perhaps shared by many - that when it comes to the poorest of poor countries in sub-Saharan Africa, our commitment is not as strong or as specific as it should be.
Mr President, as this debate has shown, there are incredibly good reasons for continuing our commitment to the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The appalling sexual violence that many Members have borne testimony to here and that we unfortunately hear about in far too many reports is naturally entirely unacceptable.
As a result, EUPOL DR Congo is to send two multidisciplinary teams to the provinces of North Kivu and South Kivu, with a mandate covering the entire country.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 December 2009.
