EU/China summit - EU/China human rights dialogue (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the EU-China summit.
This is particularly true in the field of social and economic rights but also in some other areas.
Nevertheless - and now of course I also have to say a few negative things - the Commission remains concerned by the situation of human rights in China in general and more specifically in the field of civil and political rights.
All these issues are regularly addressed in the EU-China human rights dialogue.
I want to talk about the human rights dialogue, because that was what took me to Beijing last May when, jointly with Ms Flautre, I was preparing a report on the reform of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
But that movement is led by, among others, Gao Zhisheng, a Christian lawyer who has disappeared from his home in Beijing, where he was being held under house arrest following his conviction for 'subversion' this time last year.
That means only one thing: that China cannot be held to be an appropriate host for these Games, especially since nothing has fundamentally changed since 2001.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, to come straight to the point, I believe the Olympic Games should go ahead in China, because we have a good opportunity to use these very games to step up our dialogue with China.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, one of your former opposite numbers, Madeleine Albright, observed when she was US Secretary of State that it was naturally far more difficult to raise human rights issues in China than in Burma, because in China geopolitical factors were part of the equation.
I am very pleased that the Charter of Fundamental Rights has been signed today, because many speakers have made the point that we have no right to speak about human rights issues unless we ourselves have a very good record of respecting human rights.
And yet figures from Human Rights Watch suggest that abuses have increased in the last seven years.
But President Hu Jintao has to accept that a deal is a deal.
The Host City Contract, the human rights clause in the Chinese Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - these are promises made to China's citizens.
If China wants the Olympics to prove its legitimacy and credibility to the world, then in return it must prove that it is willing to honour its human rights commitments: by improving media freedom in line with the Olympic pledges, by suspending the death penalty in line with United Nations demands, by ceasing its support for military dictators from Burma to Darfur and by allowing elections by universal suffrage in Hong Kong.
A report by David Kilgour, the Canadian Government's former secretary of state for Asia, shows that one of the most persecuted groups since 1999 is Falun Gong, whose members have organs forcibly removed in Chinese work camps.
However, at the 10th EU-China summit in Beijing on 28 November, the European Union was represented by its President, by the Trade Commissioner and by the Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner.
It is true that, since 2000, trade between the European Union and China has increased by 150%; it is also true that it has become much harder to produce statistics on the deteriorating human rights situation in China.
All this may not be surprising, for the dissident Hu Jia informs us that the head of security in Beijing is also the person in charge of organising the Olympic Games there.
The arrest of two Agence France-Presse journalists on 12 September, for example, shows that the rules introduced in January 2007 are being applied only patchily and only insofar as the persons concerned cause no embarrassment to the regime.
There is currently a blacklist of 42 categories of people regarded as persona non grata during the Olympic Games, ranging from the Dalaï Lama to followers of Falun Gong and including dissidents.
However, 2007 was also the year that saw the cancellation of a legal seminar to prepare for the human rights dialogue because the Chinese authorities refused to allow two particular NGOs to participate - one of them the well-known organisation represented by human rights campaigner Sharon Hom.
Last year Amnesty International reported that Beijing was lagging behind on crucial issues such as the death penalty, judicial procedures, press freedom and freedom of movement for human rights activists.
It is enough to make you sick. (LT) It is impossible to deny that since 1998, when we saw the start of the summit meetings between China and Europe, relations between the EU and China - at political, economic, trade and scientific research level - have been developing intensely and have grown into a strategic partnership.
In recent years, with the approaching Olympic Games in Beijing, we have learned of other 'developments' such as the fact that people's accommodation is being demolished without compensation being awarded, in order to make way for the construction of Olympic structures, and the existence of a list of 42 categories of people not to be allowed to attend the Olympic games, including the Dalai Lama, his followers and human rights defenders.
The human rights situation in China in my view, although far from adequate, is far better than it was back in the days of Tiananmen Square.
My own experience is that in China now there is a large degree of freedom of thought but not freedom to organise, because that still is the sine qua non in terms of what China and the Chinese authorities actually forbid.
I am pleased that Mr Michel is shortly going to Beijing to discuss that and other matters.
I believe it was absolutely right - and I say this advisedly as a Green German MEP - for Angela Merkel to meet the Dalai Lama, because it shows that we mean what we say about respect for human rights.
In addition, more people are being executed in China than in the rest of the world combined - up to 10 000 a year.
The only way to make the Communist dictators in China respect their citizens more is to send a signal that we take our own values of solidarity and human dignity seriously enough to make dictators feel real pain for their abuses and arrogance. (PL) Madam President, the European Parliament has stressed the infringement of human rights in China, and the lack of democracy in that country, on many occasions.
In particular, the coming year of the Olympic Games should be used by the European Union to pressurise the Chinese authorities towards liberalisation, democratisation, the rule of law and the release of all political prisoners.
On 20 November a delegation of the European Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights to the United Nations Organisation in New York met with Liu Zhenmin, China's representative to the UN.
The Chinese side showed signs of openness and sensitivity to pressure on human rights and democracy - a fact that was also emphasised by representatives of Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International in talks with the Subcommittee's delegation. (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, billions of people are awaiting 8 August 2008, the opening of the Olympic Games, with great interest.
The European Union-China dialogue on human rights has been going on for 24 years.
In order for us to be able to bring about change, we must also bring about change in the dialogue on human rights.
The second message, endorsing the opinion of my colleague Mrs Trüpel, is that it is unacceptable for certain European countries to submit, and sometimes succumb, to pressure from the Chinese authorities aimed at preventing them from holding official meetings with important Chinese personalities, in some cases dissidents, or representatives such as the Dalai Lama, in return for assured trade relations with China.
Because there was not time, President José Sócrates told Portuguese journalists, sometimes these things are discussed over dinner.
The death penalty and the release of prisoners held since the Tiananmen Square massacre: these are among the reasons why this Parliament is in favour of maintaining the embargo on arms to China.
If the International Olympic Committee mediates about the quality of the air, why not judge Beijing on respect for the Olympic ideal in its relations with its own citizens and those of other countries?
I am also one of those who care about the high-level product safety that affects 550 million European citizens; who care about trade imbalance, effective market access, intellectual property rights and international competition policies that affect thousands of European companies and millions of European employees; and who care about cooperation on environment protection, international environment governance and climate change that affects the whole population of the Earth.
However, I think we need to be determined but also realistic.
I would also like to say that there are a few concrete points that were highlighted in this discussion on which we want to see progress, such as the Falun Gong.
The situation of Falun Gong followers who have been subject to repression because of their beliefs remains a matter of concern for us.
Concerning the death penalty, I have said before that this issue is high on our agenda, and in this framework we have been urging China - and will continue along these lines - to reduce the scope of capital crimes, with a view to ultimately abolishing the death penalty.
I think the Olympic Games will be a good opportunity for China to show that more progress has been made by then.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 December 2007.
