rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, health services constitute one of the pillars of the European social model.
The Commission consultation cannot be reduced to patient mobility alone, but should be an opportunity to define what the role and the added value of the European Union might be when it comes to guaranteeing every citizen not only equal access to health care, but also a high level of health protection, in accordance with the powers of the Member States and with the principle of subsidiarity.
European health policy cannot be limited to the mobility of patients and health professionals and cannot aim solely at the implementation of an internal market in health services, as this would lead to a two-speed system, from which only the most well-off patients would benefit and where health care institutions would seek to attract the wealthiest patients.
Furthermore, due to the disparity in professionals' income, medical demography problems will undermine access to health care in the Member States in which service providers do not earn as much, with these people being tempted to settle abroad.
Patients must have the right to receive health care in another Member State, in accordance with freedom of movement, but there is no question of promoting medical tourism.
Furthermore, the Member States remain responsible for organising, planning and funding their health care systems.
Patient mobility must not in fact serve as an excuse for the Member States to neglect their own systems.
Therefore I should like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on a very thorough and comprehensive report and I should also like to thank the other committees for contributing to it.
We had more than 300 contributions from Member States, regional authorities, organisations representing patients and professionals as well as healthcare providers - even hospitals and individual citizens.
The debate goes beyond patient mobility and covers many other areas, such as information for patients, patients' rights, the movement of professionals, cooperation of healthcare assistants, centres of excellence, exchange of best practice in all areas that could contribute to effective cross-border healthcare for the benefit of patients, the citizens - our foremost concern - without creating any unnecessary burden on the healthcare systems in the Member States.
We recognise that health services have a specificity - they are distinct from other services in the European Union - and therefore the challenge is how to make a choice between the internal market and social values and put in place a framework that can bring both the benefits of freedom of movement on the one hand and respect for health objectives and social values on the other, especially as this was recently confirmed by the health ministers at the informal Council meeting in Aachen.
It will be a package with various measures, but the first one will comprise, as called for in the report, specific legislative proposals in this area.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SV) We are not concerned in this case with the Services Directive, even though anyone listening to the debate might think we were.
Mr President, Commissioner, we in this House acted with deliberation when excluding health services from the services directive, for these are particular services that needed a particular quality, a high standard of health provision, one, moreover, organised in such a way that everyone, irrespective of where they live or of how much is in their wallets, can actually have access to these health services.
I call on the Conservatives and the Liberals to ensure that paragraph 71 is once more deleted from this resolution, which is in all other respects a very good one.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Vergnaud on her report, for the broad outlines incorporated in it make of it a positive and forward-looking work showing one way in which we can address these issues, and I am very glad that the Commission, in the person of Commissioner Kyprianou, as well as the Ministers on the Council of Ministers have expressed their wholehearted willingness to go down that road, so let us go forward and address these issues in a specifically sectoral directive, thereby completing a good work for the public.
The proposal that comprises the current article is the product of compromises that have been concluded, and due account has therefore been given to the condition on which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe all insist, that being that health services should be included in the Services Directive as a lex specialis.
This is where the new amendment comes in, and I hope that the PSE Group and the PPE-DE Group can accept this, that we can adopt the amendment jointly, and that we will eventually end up with a fresh proposal which provides for equal treatment and solidarity for all Europeans, and I mean all Europeans, and all European patients.
I therefore hope that the amendment that has been tabled by the Liberal Group by way of replacement of Article 71 will meet with wide support, so that a separate directive for health services can be drawn up, and that all compromise amendments can be endorsed, which, in any event, they are by us, as the package is excellent.
I invite the Commissioner and our fellow Members to read the explanatory statement, which has not been amended and which I feel is much clearer than the 72 paragraphs that we have now.
I believe that, in this debate, we can clearly see that the difficulty in this matter, as in others, is the advantage to be gained not only by the national governments, but also by those operating in the health care systems in each of the countries, on the one hand, in keeping control of the organisation and funding of health care generally, and, on the other hand, in not allowing the Court of Justice judgments alone to provide unwanted guidelines.
On the other hand - and, on this point, too, I would draw your attention not only to our own amendments, but also to the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left - I believe that we must reaffirm very, very clearly the responsibility that each of the Member States has to guarantee access to high-quality health care to its citizens and to all those residing on its territory.
I do not think that it is a good thing to have to travel 300 km, 500 km or 2 000 km in order to go, for example, and receive proper dental care, as is the case at present.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DA) Mr President, when it comes to health, our position is clear.
We therefore also wish to state that every single government in every single one of the 27 EU Member States is responsible for ensuring that its citizens receive proper health care.
We are therefore also opposed to the report that we are debating in this House today, which would transfer responsibility from the individual governments to market forces.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, health is a human right recognised by the United Nations.
It would make it correspondingly more difficult for most people in the poor countries and for many poor people in the rich countries to pay for health services.
Instead, we should allow the Member States themselves to determine the balance they want to see in the health system between private and public provision and we should respect the Danish model with its tax-funded social and health-care rights for all, as well as our agreement model in the labour market. (SK) In her report the rapporteur deals with several very serious issues currently facing the European Union, including medical services reimbursement policy, the mobility of patients or health professionals and liability for errors.
There can be no free movement of persons without access to healthcare services.
The objective of enabling everyone - everyone in Europe - to receive adequate health care when they move around Europe, for professional and private reasons, simply falls within the realm of freedom of movement.
However, patients' right to mobility can be guaranteed only if the EU Member States retain the power to regulate these health services, so that they can control the funding of them, because, while health has no price, it has a cost, and a growing cost at that.
This cost is becoming more and more substantial, and there is the risk that it will become impossible to manage the funding of social protection and health services for all in all of our Member States.
I suspect also that Commissioner Kyprianou shares these somewhat ultraliberal views.
He said to the Figaro that competition between European health services is inevitable and, to the Financial Times, that people can shop around.
It is in favour of the right to health care for all throughout Europe, but is against a market that will enable the wealthiest people to have the best possible treatment, while the poorest and least mobile people will have the right only to a minimum level of treatment.
Article 152 of the Treaty stipulates that health care is a matter for the Member States and this is how, as I see it, in the interests of the patient and employees in health care, it should certainly stay.
The Court found in her favour and that is something that the Commissioner will reflect on.
I hope not only that the compromise will make it possible to clarify the fact that health services are not in the directive on services in the internal market, but also that we will actually demand a specific directive on health services. (SV) It is not long since the two large political groups reached a compromise on the Services Directive, and some people described it as a great success that health care and medical services had been exempted.
Cooperation is good, but legislation is not, in this instance.
I hope that those who thought that the removal of medical and health care services from the Services Directive was to be applauded will make sure that they consolidate that success by supporting the amendments by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left when we vote. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all those who, in the committee, voted in favour of paragraph 71, now at least realise what a disservice they have done to the debate, for we are now talking less about the substantive issue than about the methodology involved.
For the fact is that this is not about the free market versus the national interest, but about our understanding of the vulnerability of the health sector and social services, and about our willingness to regulate these sectors in very specific ways rather than evaluating them solely in terms of the workings of the market.
The issue of how to regulate the freedom of entrepreneurs to provide services demands a nuanced regulation and careful handling, and the Member States must not be discharged from their responsibilities in that respect, for it is they - and not those who make Europe's laws - who have to ensure the highest quality standards. (HU) I welcome the fact that when numerous European Union Member States are working on reforming their health care systems, the European Parliament should also examine the question in a separate report, and I congratulate my fellow Member, Mrs Vergnaud, on her work.
Although we are only now looking for solutions to the above challenges, what is certain is that a precondition of every solution is that the burden be borne jointly, as something that is the responsibility of all 485 million inhabitants.
The appropriate framework for addressing the mobility of patients exists in Regulations (EC) Nos 1408 and 883/2004.
The effort to integrate health services into the Bolkenstein Directive 'through the back door' with the famous Manders Directive and/or with the amended directive waiting in the wings must be rejected categorically.
I trust that we will not change our tune again this time. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the Member States must respect European Court of Justice rulings and the Commission must integrate them into social security regulations.
The Commission and the Member States must reach agreement on what is considered non-urgent care for which the patient has to request this prior consent.
Consequently, this right has yet to be implemented in law, since Regulation 1408 from 1971 has not been updated.
The idea that mobility would lead to a deterioration in care is nonsense.
I am sure that this House will not fail under any circumstances in allowing those criteria to prevail. (SK) I would like to thank Mrs Vergnaud and the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
First of all, I would like to speak about the different types of mobility possible in healthcare.
For example, the cross-border provision of medical services, meaning that a service is provided from one country to another without patients and health professionals leaving their home territory.
That is why I should like to explain myself, because I believe that the statement that I made to the Figaro and also to the Financial Times has not been understood correctly.
A lot has been said about the subsidiarity in Article 152 and I would like to remind you of what the Court said on that.
That is why we are faced with the challenge of how can we make these principles established by the Court work both for citizens and Member States.
There are also scientific reasons: sometimes specialised treatments may be better provided in another Member State.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 23 May.
