&#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Council and Commission statements regarding the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy.
As the Commission has proposed, we must give this strategy a new start, by concentrating our action on achieving stronger and more sustainable growth and on creating more better-quality jobs.
The objectives of growth and employment must be pursued via a process of synergy which must be developed between the three dimensions of the strategy, namely the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
In this context the European Council will also set the priorities which should guide the Union’s action in the social sphere.
A re-examination of the social agenda must, in fact, supplement and support the mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy, particularly as regards the promotion of the social dimension of economic growth.
As far as the environment is concerned, the European Council should emphasise the contribution to growth and employment made by environmental policy, and should confirm the need to integrate environmental considerations into the Lisbon process.
The European Council will also be examining the question of how to improve the governance of the strategy, both Union-wide and at the level of the Member States.
As far as the Presidency is concerned, this complex issue can be boiled down to a few essential points.
Secondly, there is the introduction of the three-year national action programmes.
This gives Member States greater flexibility in choosing the priorities and methods of action which they use in order to implement the strategy, within the framework laid down by the integrated guidelines to which I have just referred.
It is proposed that, on the basis of these integrated guidelines, Member States should work out in detail their national action programmes, following the broadest possible consultation between all those involved.
In order to facilitate consultation and coordination, and the implementation of what is decided upon, each Member State would be able to appoint one public figure who would be responsible for the implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
The idea is that, each autumn with effect from 2006, Member States should submit a single report on the implementation of their national action programme.
The Council, in its various formations, is continuing its work on all the issues linked to the review of the Lisbon strategy, and the General Affairs Council will return to this matter on 16 March, just before the European Council meeting.
These, then, are the major proposals which are currently being discussed and prepared with a view to the European Council meeting on 22 March. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, honourable Members, a month ago, at the Conference of Presidents, I put forward our ideas for a partnership for sustainable growth and employment, thus giving new impetus to the Lisbon Strategy.
Our objective for this partnership is simple: we have to modernise and invigorate our economy and our social model, and we must improve our quality of life through truly ambitious reforms.
That success depends on presenting a vision that mobilises popular support, gives a real sense of ownership and, above all, leads to real action at a national, regional and local level.
However, to mobilise support it must be clear why these reforms matter and that they are part of our wider vision.
They are about people and the issues that matter most to them: the chance to work, a decent start for their children, security in retirement or ill-health, and quality public services.
This goal of sustainable development underpins the Lisbon Strategy as it does the action of the Union in every area.
These are broad economic, social and environmental objectives.
The first five years of the Lisbon Strategy have not delivered the desired results.
A dynamic and innovative Europe offers us the best chance to do this.
Vice-President Verheugen will set out in more detail how this new focus translates into concrete action and results.
Our new social agenda, our review of sustainable development and our action on climate change show the Commission’s commitment to moving ahead across a wide range of areas.
The first is the balance within the Lisbon Strategy.
This is not at all in contradiction with our social and environmental policy.
Growth is a necessary precondition for an effective and more ambitious programme in terms of solidarity, just as fighting unemployment is the best protection against exclusion and poverty.
With regard to the services directive, we need an open and thriving internal market for services in the Union, as well as high-quality, accessible public services.
In particular we need to ensure a framework that removes the risk of social dumping, has a broad coverage – but does not necessarily cover healthcare or services of general interest – and addresses genuine concerns about the operation of the country of origin principle.
We proposed that a European Institute of Technology should be created, that greater priority should be given to improving the regulations, particularly in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, that there should be a greater emphasis on re-examining existing proposals, that the rules on State aid and taxation should be used in a way that would encourage the spirit of enterprise, innovation and research, that employment market reforms should concentrate on measures to help women, young people and older workers to find and keep jobs, and that a European Pact for Youth should be concluded.
In reality, I think we can say that people have a pretty clear idea of what needs to be done.
It is primarily because Member States – and society in general – have not made the structural reforms their own that a number of those reforms have produced disappointing results over the past five years.
Of course, the initiative will lie with Member States, but we have already prepared, at the same time, a European Union programme on the Lisbon strategy, which offers initiatives at Community level and thus explains in detail what needs to be done at Community level and what needs to be done at national level.
Thirdly, we are proposing the simplification of the compulsory provision of information, at both Community and national level, so that Member States can devote more time to implementing the reforms and less time to writing reports about them which most people will ignore.
It is our ambition to develop active participation in these reforms, and to put them at the heart of national political debates.
The European Council taking place this spring will not be the end of the road: on the contrary, it will give political impetus to the new approach.
However, in order to be entirely consistent, the broad policy guidelines defined in March will have to guide the financial decisions to be taken in June.
At the same time, the European Council will also be opening the way for debates at national and regional level on the action programmes which Member States have been asked to submit this autumn.
The Lisbon strategy must take its inspiration from the partnerships and dialogues which the cohesion policy has put in place in recent years between the various people involved at national, local and social level.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say that, following my meetings with the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, I find it very encouraging that those institutions have, generally speaking, warmly welcomed our review of the Lisbon strategy.
I am also particularly pleased to see the joint declaration issued recently by the two major European trade-union and employers’ organisations.
It is, therefore, possible to reach a balanced consensus on ambitious reforms.
It goes without saying that within this partnership the Members of the European Parliament will play a major role if we really want to implement these reforms.
This is why I am asking you to make your contribution each year to the work of the spring European Council which, in accordance with the Treaty, lays down the guidelines which will direct the process, and also, of course, to take the lead in the political discussions which will mobilise support at national, regional and local level.
This is our conception of the partnership which this Commission wishes to establish with you.
All European institutions will be judged by whether or not this growth and employment initiative is a success, for the people of Europe expect us to really reverse a trend and keep Europe up to the mark in global, and ever more acute, competition at a high level – and I emphasise ‘at a high level’.
I am firmly convinced that, in the long term, such a European philosophy of economic policy gains us a competitive advantage, for the other dynamic regions of the world cannot get away from the fact that people want higher environmental and social standards.
People may well think, ‘right, let that lot in Strasbourg and Brussels get on with it, and we’ll watch them fail yet again’, but it can only work if the European institutions and the Member States regard this project as a shared responsibility.
The President has just had something to say about the doubts expressed by some Member States about the way we intend to implement this strategy, and it is they whom I am addressing when I say that we have no intention of building up a ponderous mechanism of reporting, recommendations and sanctions; what we want is a model in which we, together, set out and analyse the policy’s outcomes.
We do, however, need to have these summarised in a progress report, and that has to be based on progress reports from the Member States.
These are nothing for anyone to be afraid of, for, even now, the Member States have to submit detailed reports; indeed, what we are now proposing reduces the burden on them.
Secondly, the Commission is pressing hard for the governments of the Member States to appoint members – ministers – who will have responsibility for coordinating the Lisbon strategy in their countries.
The most natural solution would be for this function to be taken on by the ministers who sit on the Competitiveness Council, whose remit includes the Lisbon Strategy in any case.
That would also enable this Council, which is currently looking for a new role, to find one and be much more effective in playing it.
The last point I want to make is that I will, in the course of this year, be producing a series of important initiatives to flesh out the project’s European dimension.
Everything that the Commission presents will be subject to prior approval, judged in terms of what contribution a particular project or initiative makes to growth and employment in Europe.
That is the question that must be answered in all cases, and answer it we will.
Parliament has a great part to play in this, as does the Council, as do the Member States and the Commission.
It is not just about future lawmaking and how we ensure that it improves competitiveness; it is also about the as it stands at present and examining it to see whether we really do still need all the things we have enacted over the past decades or whether a considerable degree of simplification is possible in this area.
I am talking about the 25 million small and medium-sized businesses in Europe, which provide two-thirds of our total workforce.
It can no longer be what it was in the past, with protective fences being put up around certain industries; here, too, the only thing to do is to maintain competitiveness and enhance it, but we need to be aware that Europe needs a strong and long-term industrial base, and so it will be necessary to consider European industry sector by sector and to discuss with all the stakeholders – companies, trade unions, legislatures and governments – which framework conditions are the best for the sector under consideration, enabling it to make the maximum use of its potential for growth.
The last topic I want to mention is that of innovation.
The Americans, among others, are much better at it.
The present Commission is firmly convinced that Europe is strong enough to face up to the challenges of global competition.
We can support each other making use of the potential that exists in our societies, but we will need to give the European institutions the capacities to implement a policy along these lines, and so, before I conclude my speech, I cannot do other than observe that growth and employment policy is a powerful instrument for achieving these long-term policy goals of ours, but the figures in the next Financial Perspective must reflect it.
I think the only thing I can say on this is that it would do serious damage to the success of our growth and employment policy if the uncertainty about the next Financial Perspective were to persist for some time.
While extending thanks to the chairman of the steering committee, Mr Daul, and our group’s coordinator, Mrs&#160;Thyssen, whose work has been outstanding, I also would like to thank those, not all of whom I can name, have played their part in enabling us – it is to be hoped – to get a broad majority in a good cause when we vote at midday.
Our group is very definitely behind them in this, and we are also glad to see the Commission represented here not only by such important members, but also in such numbers.
What is at stake is the European Union’s ability to compete.
Let us just look at a few figures and compare ourselves with our main competitors, our partners and friends in the United States.
If we take the standard in the fifteen-Member State EU as 100, the enlargement to 25 Member States reduced our productivity per worker to 93, while work productivity in the USA stands at 121.
Vice-President Verheugen was right to stress the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, the need for us to create a culture of risk-taking, the need for us to encourage personal initiative and personal responsibility, and, above all, for economic legislation that is unbureaucratic and that businesses, particularly small and medium-sized ones, can comprehend, with a simple and fair tax system and the predictability that we need in economic policy.
It is crucial that we should develop a growth-oriented macro-economic environment, that we should have a stable currency and dynamic development in our economy and labour market, and that we should reduce state debt.
I cannot therefore do other than encourage all the actors to reform the Stability Pact in such a way that – assuming they succeed in this – the Pact ends up being at the heart of our shared efforts.
What we demand of the Member States is that they should make their contribution to a Europe that is capable of development and that fosters growth, a Europe with a growing economy.
I also share the view – taken not only by the Commission, but also by all the European institutions and all the Member States of the European Union – that the project is complete in itself, and that, in order for it to succeed, all alike must play their parts in it.
I want to join in thanking the members of the ad hoc committee – my colleagues Mr Désir and Mr Goebbels, as well as Mr Klaus-Heiner Lehne – and of my own group, for all of them did very intensive work and made a very constructive contribution to the broad and consensual text that we have before us today.
I agree that Lisbon will fail if people come to feel that it aims to recast the European social model, and if possible to downgrade it, but if, as a project, it enhances Europe’s prosperity by making it a more competitive continent, while at the same time maintaining the social framework conditions that can make it possible for every person in this Union to live decently, by creating jobs and social security for young and old: if that is what Lisbon leads them to feel, then it is a project that the people will accept.
I am very much in agreement with Commissioner Verheugen’s view, and would like to make that clear on behalf of my group.
I was also delighted to see the President of the Commission smile with pleasure when Commissioner Verheugen pointed out the connection between the Financial Perspective and the Lisbon process.
If this project is going to succeed, it will not do so on the basis of ever more tasks with ever fewer financial resources; that will not work.
Those who want this project to succeed while leaving the resources unchanged must not be left without an answer when they want to reallocate them for the benefit of the Lisbon goals.
This connection is, in our view, important, as are their three points: better regulation, the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises and a pro-active industrial policy to secure both industrial jobs and the environmental standards and quality of our products, thereby making us better able to compete in export markets.
Yes, we, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, are all in favour of that, for all these things, above all else, create one thing, and that is work, which, in its turn, creates social security.
I am grateful to all those on the ad hoc committee who helped to bring about a broad majority in this House on this crucial issue.
Moreover, President Barroso, you will need political will in the Council and support in this House for your reforms, neither of which is yet fully evident.
Europe’s right-wing parties have still not yet embraced the central fact of globalisation that the nation-state and the free market are no longer compatible.
Free movement of goods and capital without similarly free movement of services and labour is economic nonsense.
And the left is still riven by dissent over the role of the state in managing the economy.
President Barroso, Europe’s Liberals and Democrats will remain steadfast and united in support of your agenda, provided you recognise that the forces which spur growth and create new jobs lie in entrepreneurship and in the determination to make a great product or provide a great new service.
The real competition in the global economy is to attract investment capital to back new ideas and create new jobs.
Government too has a role in protecting citizens from fraud or market failure and levelling the playing field not only between businesses, but also between business and the citizen.
To us, getting the balance of economic policy right seems fundamental.
To improve the economic vitality and the social and environmental health of our continent simultaneously, the Lisbon Agenda must combine flexibility, fairness and farsightedness.
Just as Henry the Navigator guided Europe’s pioneers in the discovery of new lands and great wealth, so you can guide us in the discovery of similar economic success. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare this morning’s speeches and the resolution on the review of the Lisbon Strategy, which we are about to put to the vote, with Mr&#160;Barroso’s speech of a few weeks ago, we cannot help feeling pleased that there is now broad agreement, at least in principle, on the fact that relaunching the Lisbon and Gothenburg Strategy depends on finding an essential new balance among the three dimensions of the strategy, that is to say its environmental, economic and social dimensions.
We are obviously pleased that some of our proposals have been included in the joint resolution, but we believe there are still gaps in the text.
It lacks a clear choice as to the instruments that we should have at our disposal to achieve our goals, and it lacks guarantees that the Commission – and Parliament as well – will be willing and able to stand up to those who do not believe in the need for European control of the economy and are pressing for renationalisation of the cohesion policies, a backward reform of the labour market and a further cut in the Union’s budget.
Because of the concern to reach a compromise, contradictory elements have been included in the resolution, leaving the message confused instead of more convincing.
Europe needs a tax reform that reduces labour costs and taxes other sectors.
Jacques Delors said as much very many years ago, but nothing has been done since then and instead the subject has dropped out of the European debate.
Secondly, the resolution retains a remarkably moderate and even ambiguous stance on three extremely important topics, which are going to be the subject of some hard legislative wrangling over the coming months; they are the services directive, the REACH regulation and the software patents directive.
It is a compromise that the Commission and Parliament too should defend tooth and nail against the aggressive lobbying of the chemical industry, which does not understand that organising an efficient and credible control system is the best way to ensure its competitiveness.
Mr&#160;President, we shall be on your side in making these choices when that is possible, but we shall be against you and on the side of the people of Europe when it is not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in March 2000 the Heads of State or Government of the Union, as well as the Commission, wanted to prove that social action was possible via liberal means.
This is hard to imagine at a time when the European Central Bank has just revised its growth forecast for the euro zone, reducing it to 1.6% for this year, and when countries such as Italy and the Netherlands are on the verge of recession.
The workers, it explains, are the major losers.
Yet what are the messages from Brussels which our fellow citizens are hearing day after day?
For her part, Mrs Nellie Kroes, Commissioner for Competition, has declared that she wants to do away with State aids of a regional nature in the 15 older Member States of the Union.
As for Mr Mandelson, Commissioner for Trade, he has reminded Member States of their duty to continue to reform their labour markets and their welfare systems.
My group is campaigning precisely in order to help this opinion to be expressed, not against Europe – and there is a danger of that happening – but in favour of its profound transformation.
EU projects may, then, reduce the need for state appropriations to the individual Member States.
In the case of large projects such as space initiatives and those involving nuclear power, there may be economies of scale to be gained from carrying on projects at EU level.
The Lisbon Process must not be allowed to become the jumping-off point for a large number of new projects at EU level that require funding by the Member States.
In general, I think that the issue of whether national initiatives can be replaced by EU projects is an important one.
For each new official in Brussels, the total number of officials in the Member States increases by a factor of five, ten or twenty-five.
The more the EU takes over power from the bureaucracies in the Member States, the more these bureaucracies expand.
Moreover, the politicians who have lost their right of initiative seek out new areas in which to act and tell us that more resources are needed in order to strengthen their negotiating position in Brussels.
Through our ambitions to harmonise, legislate and become involved in every conceivable issue, we run the risk of putting a brake on growth.
The EU should, therefore, instead make more use of the institutional competition that resides in diversity. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it will be impossible to achieve the objectives laid down by the Lisbon Strategy unless the European Union radically changes the way it addresses the economic and social problems that characterise contemporary society in Europe and the rest of the world.
It is essential to think in terms of social economics in parallel with development economics.
To achieve this aim, Europe has to change its relations with those countries where workers do not enjoy social security or legal protection and where children cannot play but are forced to work.
Environmental protection and the creation of a European social model are goals that must be pursued. &#160;&#160; &#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Lisbon strategy is to safeguard the prosperity and cohesion of European society, and to ensure it continues to develop.
It is essential to establish sources of funding that make it possible to achieve these goals, yet at the same time it is crucial that the cost of living be as low as possible.
Cheap services and products are particularly important for the poorest groups in society.
Developments in research allowing wider access to modern technologies, and production methods enabling us to compete with countries outside the EU, are examples of ways in which it will be possible to achieve the Lisbon goals.
Implementation of the Lisbon strategy entails the analysis of a number of areas of activity involving both the European Union and its Member States.
One of the main problems we face as far as the Lisbon strategy is concerned is ensuring that the appropriateness of the goals set for research and for implementation programmes.
Over the past few decades, leading research and development centres have been established in Europe, for example in Finland or Saxony.
Over the next five years, a great many new centres of this kind should be set up, in order to close the gap between the EU and the global leaders in this field.
We must increase expenditure on research to at least 3% of GDP, as well as employing at least one million more people in science and research and putting in place procedures to guarantee funds are spent effectively.
In addition to research, both the local units and the research centres should carry out teaching and take on talented young PhD students, thus creating a new cadre of researchers.
An action plan of this kind would help to fill the gap left by those researchers who have been poached by countries outside the EU.
The primary aim of science and technology as a whole should be to promote small and medium-sized enterprises.
The development of the latter would eliminate unemployment, yet they cannot afford to carry out research or to implement progressive and modern production methods.
Three programmes should be set up relating to research, the employment of researchers and the cohesion of such measures in the EU Member States.
These should comprise a programme laying down guidelines for regional development and the specialisation of production in European countries, a programme aimed at setting up a European system for research and the training of researchers, plus a programme designed to provide information, facilitate the introduction of new technologies and products and ensure that they are applied in production.
The aim of these programmes should be to reduce any negative economic impact caused by the planned introduction of the REACH programme to a minimum.
The system according to which research measures are carried out ought to be simple, easy-to-understand and based on the principle of competitiveness, which will ensure it is effective and encourage investment by the private sector.
In order to gain public and political support, the system must promote cohesion … &#160;&#160; Mr President, we in Europe are facing a historic challenge, one to which the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is prepared to rise, because we want future generations to prosper and be enabled to enjoy our social model, have jobs and claim a reasonable pension afterwards.
This is impossible without economic growth or jobs.
We appreciate the fact that the Barroso Commission has taken the brave decision to revive and breathe new life into the Lisbon strategy and, on the recommendation of the Kok working party, has opted to give priority to growth and jobs in a balanced social and ecological context.
We must opt in favour of competitiveness, a positive business climate – definitely also including SMEs – and economic growth and jobs.
The three initiatives announced by the Commission will certainly have a place in those.
We must provide the means in order to achieve these ends.
This once again throws open the possibility of a constructive dialogue, which will benefit Parliament’s work and responsibilities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr Vice-President, first of all I should like to thank my co-rapporteur, Mr&#160;Klaus-Heiner&#160;Lehne, for the work which we did together on the preparation of the motion for a resolution on which Parliament will be voting today.
That is why it has to concentrate on growth, on employment, on social and territorial cohesion, not only because these are the very objectives of this process of building Europe – now that peace is assured – but also because they are the prerequisites for the public’s support for the political plans for the construction of Europe, as Mr Martin Schulz has reminded us.
That is why we believe that it is important to state that the Lisbon strategy must be the Union’s priority over the next five years.
We believe that this strategy is the right one, provided that it is taken seriously, in other words provided that it is effectively implemented in the Member States in the three dimensions defined at the 2000 Summit under the Portuguese Presidency.
These are advantages which will ensure that investors back the European Union.
It is because we are relaunching growth on that basis that we shall have the resources to finance effectively a high level of training, distribution and social cohesion within the Union and in particular the enlarged Union.
Europe needs reforms, and we are all agreed on that.
It needs to adapt and to have a more dynamic economy, but it also needs investment, it needs to restimulate internal demand, and it needs to coordinate its efforts and to concentrate them on what can, in future, constitute its wealth and its opportunity in international competition.
That is why our resolution puts the emphasis on a financial perspective which is consistent with the Lisbon strategy, in other words the doubling of the European research budget and constant effort as regards the major trans-European networks, social cohesion and regional policy.
At the moment we have the feeling that there is still a lack of balance, that most of the specific proposals concentrate on competitiveness, the economy and structural reforms, and that there is a lack of incentives, information and legislative initiatives in the area of social cohesion and on environmental issues.
For example, we now want to see a real draft framework directive on services of general interest.
We would like to see a reform of the European Works Councils, in order to enable us to say that the quality of employer-employee relations in Europe is part of our development strategy.
In the area of eco-innovations, we should like to see more specific initiatives, and we are pleased to note that, finally, industrial policy linked to innovation and aid for small and medium-sized enterprises has been included in the Commission’s programme.
I am delighted that we have achieved very broad agreement once again thanks to the work of Mr Daul, Mr Lehne and Mrs Thyssen.
I can understand that there are still differences, but I can quite honestly say that I believe we have managed to come up with a clear, strong message which is in line with a Lisbon strategy which contributes to the European social model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, five years after the launch of the Lisbon Strategy it is clear that we need to give it a fresh start.
Separating economic growth from social and environmental development must be a mistake since these three areas are linked.
New technologies for saving energy are another example of business interests being in tune with environmental concerns.
There is a saying that competition brings out the best in products and the worst in people.
The EU has a great potential to be the world’s leading knowledge-based economy.
The proposals from the Commission are good, but to reduce the Lisbon Strategy only to a matter of economic growth would be to take steps in the wrong direction while time is running out.
The major groups have negotiated this resolution and the clear message is that economic growth, social cohesion and environmental development have to be seen as a whole.
This we have set out in our second amendment. &#160;&#160; I should like to welcome to Parliament Mr Hrusovsky, President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, who is now present in the distinguished visitors’ gallery.
His visit demonstrates the great value that Parliament attaches to dialogue with national parliaments.
I wish Mr&#160;Hrusovsky and his delegation an enjoyable and successful visit. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the continuation of the debate on the mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, this debate is taking place at a particularly difficult moment for the social situation in the European Union.
If that does not happen, we will have a rise in social tensions among the people in our countries in protest at the policies we are implementing.
They want greater social protection and better social policy, and that, Mr&#160;President, is the challenge. &#160;&#160; Just five years ago, the EU set out to make itself a rival to the United States of America within ten years.
Now we hear the half-time whistle, but I suspect Mr Barroso is not a man to listen to whistle-blowers.
We are asked to consider a mid-term review, but there seems little to review.
Mrs Figueiredo said in her report yesterday that 22&#160;million jobs need to be created in the EU in the next five years.
The main task also remains the same — to convince the Member States’ social partners and all European citizens to accept change.
The risk is — it so happens that at the same time as we are relaunching the implementation of the Lisbon strategy we are also discussing the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact — that we have a reform that will not promote convergence between the Eurozone states and will pass greater economic and financial risk on to the Member States.
Among the advantages of this period is that the European Union’s enlargement by ten new Member States is a propitious moment.
Fears about jobs moving to the new Member States, cheap labour forces and tax competition within the European Union itself are forcing politicians to consider reforms and are making society more open to change.
With the enlargement of the European Union the time for active competition and change has arrived.
This is the right moment to relaunch the Lisbon strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Commission, your review of the Lisbon strategy contains statements that are gravely misleading, not only for this House, but also for the leaders of the 25 Member States.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can justifiably describe the text of the resolution before the House as balanced and as containing everything relevant to the Lisbon strategy.
I refer to the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement of December 2003 on better lawmaking, which – as I have been observing for a year now – is not operating adequately.
It is particularly unsatisfactory when it comes to scrutinising the impact of laws and to involving interested parties in the production of drafts within the Commission.
Let me conclude with a couple of observations on the role played by the other groups in this House.
I am grateful to the Socialist Group in the European Parliament for following the Liberals in now deciding to support this draft.
It is vitally important that the Lisbon process should be supported by all.
Of course our draft resolution could be improved still further.
There are certain deafening silences, such as the lack of any reference to the need to adjust the Stability and Growth Pact.
Happily, the governments, whatever their political colour, have a more realistic approach than some Conservative or Liberal MEPs.
Thus, the Ecofin Council, in spite of some difficult debates, is moving towards an adjustment of the pact.
I am willing to bet that the spring summit will succeed in transforming a somewhat ineffectual budgetary monitoring tool into a political-economy tool in the service of growth.
With limited inflation, interest rates which are low compared with the past, a savings surplus and businesses that are more than profitable, Europe – and above all the euro zone – is currently lacking, not in stability, but in growth.
As a matter of priority we should stimulate internal demand, particularly in the larger countries within the euro zone, Germany, France and Italy.
The mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy will have to result in the concentration of resources on the priority objectives, that is, investment in education, training, research and infrastructures.
In a world in which capital is becoming increasingly mobile, Europe’s most precious competitive advantage remains its well-educated and trained labour force, which also has the independence necessary to enable it to react to constant change.
It is no accident that the Scandinavian countries, which showed the greatest determination in adopting the Lisbon strategy with regard to social and environmental excellence, are now among the best performing European countries in economic terms.
Policies on the employment market and on industrial relations systems must be reoriented towards the anticipation and management of change, so as to create a dynamic European economy and persuade the European labour force that change is an opportunity rather than a threat.
The same logic applies to social protection policies which play a crucial role and which call for the strengthening of policies to combat poverty and social exclusion.
Seen from the outside, the Union is the world political entity which has the highest standard of living, not only in economic terms but also in social and environmental terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank Mr Lehne and Mr Goebbels particularly, and also the other Members for their constructive cooperation.
Five years after the inception of the Lisbon strategy, we have now reached a fork in the road, and I would like to take this as an opportunity to reiterate something fundamental about the situation in Europe.
The last time Europe suffered from this sort of structural mass unemployment was in the 1930s.
In Germany, from which I come, the number of unemployed is higher than at any time in the history of the Federal Republic, having gone over the million mark in North Rhine-Westphalia, which both Commissioner Verheugen and I call home.
At the same time, many Member States are getting deeper and deeper into debt, and science and research are going elsewhere as the intellectual, moral and political consequences of mass unemployment spread – lower turnouts at elections, general dissatisfaction with politics, burgeoning racism, and extremism from both the Right and the Left.
None of us can any more be ignorant of the fact that the European internal market has created two million jobs since 1993.
There is enormous potential for growth in the reduction of obstacles to the provision of services across borders.
In this debate, let me add, those rabble-rousers who know nothing except how to stoke people’s fears have had a free run for far too long, and I am at present primarily referring to the unholy alliance that has been forged this week in Westphalia, on the other bank of the Rhine.
I also believe that we should be having this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell Mr Lehne, as he made explicit reference to it, that we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance did not find this text an easy one to deal with.
Let me remind you that, when we in the steering committee began to debate this text, we agreed that it would profit us nothing to have only general agreement, but that this House would have to make of the Lisbon process something more concrete.
If, for example, you do not want the Poles, Czechs and Slovaks to be disappointed in their hopes that this Europe would actually bring them social progress, or if you do not want Europe to be associated, in the West, only with social decline, then you cannot vote in favour of the Bolkestein directive as it stands.
For us, that is a breaking point in this text.
I do, though, refuse to accept that these blocks of text are fit only for pious platitudes on Lisbon and that everything will be forgotten again when, for example, we vote in the Committee on Agriculture on such things as REACH, the research Framework Programme or genetically modified organisms.
I therefore believe that the Greens’ rejection is well founded, and we will continue, in the months to come, to debate with you on the future of social justice, a proper approach to the environment, and innovations, with reference to the actual projects concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, where the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy and the conclusions to be drawn from it are concerned, the difference between the majority in this House and the group to which I belong is that the former, in principle, wants to carry on down the road we have already taken, that of supply-oriented economic policy with increased competition, whilst we say that that road is the wrong one.
The main task is to create jobs, and that is something I can do only if demand for products increases and business is obliged to invest in expansion and thereby meet the increased need.
The facts ought to prompt even those whose economic thinking is of the most neoliberal kind to accept that, in the absence of demand, cutting taxes does nothing to create new jobs, but that, on the contrary, either the consequent rationalisation wipes them out or the increase in revenue is not reinvested, or alternatively, it finds its way, via taxation, into the state’s budget.
The Lisbon strategy must not be about competing for the biggest returns, but rather competing for highly skilled jobs, excellence in education and training, product quality, high environmental standards and a high level of consumer protection.
I might add that this is also reflected in the favourable foreign trade balance enjoyed by most of the European Union’s Member States, who, despite high social transfers, were able to offer products acceptable in global markets.
If we want to become the world’s strongest economic region by 2010, we must devote our attention primarily to welfare and the environment in the European Union, for that is the best way in which we can promote our economy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the forthcoming spring summit is being overshadowed by what the referendums on the European Constitution might bring in the coming months.
That is detrimental to good decision-making on economic reforms.
I would therefore call on the Commission, together with the Member States, to work on the necessary structural reforms.
Growth is needed to maintain Europe’s social model, which, at the same time, needs to be reformed.
Whoever claims today that structural reforms are unnecessary is a dangerous demagogue. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we support Mr&#160;Barroso’s initiative, and we are delighted that the Commission is taking steps to achieve the Lisbon goals in full.
We find it incomprehensible that Mr&#160;Barroso has been criticised over the Lisbon strategy, as after all it is not the European Commission’s fault that the Lisbon strategy has not yet been implemented.
It is the Member States who are to blame for the fact that the Lisbon strategy continues to be a paper construct rather than a feature of Europe’s real economic life, as it is they who lacked the courage to reform the European Union’s economies.
I come from a country in which for over 45&#160;years attempts were made to cast a verbal spell over the economy.
Reality is knocking at our door, and Europe is not alone in the world.
We are all fully aware that Asia is experiencing very rapid growth, and that the United States is also experiencing growth.
Sooner or later, this economic reality will come knocking at our door.
The European Council determined the objectives, whose fulfilment it had only to coordinate and facilitate, because in the majority of cases these objectives are subject to the national states within the framework of subsidiarity.
I therefore call upon the national states and, the citizens of these states directly, to assume an increased responsibility in adopting the ideas of the Lisbon Strategy.
The European Union would have to provide continuous monitoring and more consistently ensure the role of a flexible and effective centre, as it has, for example, in the verification and fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria.
Individual Member States have not undergone the social reforms required to resolve the issue of social inclusion.
But here we lag behind in the recognition of qualifications and skills, and particularly in the streamlining of this procedure.
The movement of the work force appears to be in an East-West direction, mainly the highly sophisticated work force, which intensifies the differences in the less developed regions even more.
The ageing of the population: the national states have failed to pay attention to this phenomenon and, through their social reforms, have not managed to ensure the social inclusion of these citizens, that is, an entire generation.
The Lisbon Strategy launched in 2000 has not brought the progress we hoped for.
The first reason seems obvious: the strategy was too confused, too fragmented and looked like a battle plan without an army.
Europe must therefore leverage on its ability to create added value while preserving its social model; the way to do this is through priority action plans with precise timetables.
We know that in terms of conventional competitiveness our companies are no longer a match for countries like China or India.
Our advantages are innovation, the quality of our training, our environment and making the most of our know-how.
Our trump card is eco-innovation and cutting-edge technologies that meet a demand for very high added-value products that our competitors are unable to satisfy.
Reviving the economy and boosting employment means backing entrepreneurial activity by helping our large companies to become world champions and giving our SMEs the means to expand, developing a dynamic society for our fellow-citizens.
For that, we want a simple and fair tax system that causes as little hindrance as possible, public-private partnerships, an internal market with no social dumping, a high level of commitment to young people with the recognition of qualifications and greater use made of exchanges, the appointment of a ‘Mr or Mrs Lisbon’ in every capital and commitment by the Member States to the financial perspectives.
Lisbon ought to be Europe’s winning number, but we must always keep in mind what Churchill said, and make it our motto: ‘However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President Barroso, Commissioner Verheugen, I would like to say how pleased I am today at the positive reception given to our draft resolution on the Lisbon Process.
I regard it, in fact, as a hand outstretched in cooperation and I see it as a manifestation of the fact that people have been listening.
Although we have had fierce discussions along the way, after each fierce discussion a conclusion must be drawn, and the conclusion being drawn today is that now is the time for action.
I would like to say that I was delighted to hear Mr&#160;Juncker’s recent comments, when he said that we should now end the debate concerning what comes first and establish that in Europe things happen at the same time; that we improve our competitiveness, carry out social reforms – including in the labour market – and implement environmental reforms all at the same time.
I should like to say that we in Scandinavia have shown that it can be done, and that is indeed partly what we understand by the European dimension.
In other words, we shall say that we are here to create new jobs that can take the place of the old ones, and we shall ensure that people are able to take those new jobs.
May I end by urgently saying to the Luxembourg Presidency and to the Commission that we need greater demand in Europe and that we need macroeconomic coordination of investments, for I can assure you that, without major economic growth, there will be no popular understanding for reforms, and without reforms we can have no sustainable economic growth.
I think great efforts are being made to secure balance, and we want to be there all the time, as Mr&#160;Schulz said today, to secure that balance that is the European identity. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us is built on the necessary balance between the three facets of the Lisbon Strategy: the economic facet, of course, but also the social and environmental ones.
That is how we will demonstrate to our fellow citizens our determination to give substance to a Europe that is, of course, competitive, but is also based on social cohesion and the restoration and preservation of a healthy environment.
The second message confirms the role of SMEs as job creators and innovators in a proactive and balanced industrial policy, one focused on the leading corporations, but also – and perhaps primarily – on those small companies which, again, are the key to job creation in Europe.
The third message stresses the obvious need for a major boost to research in the EU as a whole.
The Lisbon Strategy’s success depends on the Member States’ ability to steer their policies in the required direction and to involve Europe’s population as widely as possible.
It will only be possible to involve people in this way if public opinion is generally well-disposed towards the work of the European Union and its institutions.
Secondly, we have to make the internal market a domestic market for all.
Without an internal market in services, then, the new Lisbon strategy will remain unrealised.
The same social model applies also to the Lisbon strategy.
I call on the ETUC to call off the demonstration against growth, competitiveness and employment and do as the Socialist Group has earned our gratitude by doing – get back into the boat of growth, employment and competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the Council, in the year 2000, set itself the ambitious objective of Europe becoming, by 2010, the strongest – in economic terms – knowledge-based society.
The results from the mid-term review are, alas, something other than favourable, and so we must, as a matter of urgency, implement in a consistent manner the strategies that have already been devised.
There is a need for more investment in education, science and research, although this needs to go hand in hand with reforms in response to the changes in technology and society.
In my view, deregulation, a reduction in the administrative burden and cutting right down on red tape must therefore be central in the Lisbon strategy if we really want to achieve this desperately needed reinforcement of Europe’s competitiveness.
Thirdly, I do, of course, agree completely with the Members who believe that Europe should take pride in its unique model, but we should also realise that this social model can be enforced only when we generate more economic growth.
All too often, my fellow MEPs on my left have preserved the myth that social policy and economic growth are mutually exclusive, whether the subject is the Lisbon strategy or the services directive.
Time and again, they intimate a false contradiction between a free, innovative, dynamic knowledge economy and social policy.
I am therefore delighted that the spokespersons of that group now say that the text before us deserves broad support.
In some of the new Member States today there are still major budgetary and bureaucratic obstacles blocking small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers from successfully competing with larger businesses, or simply from being able to get what is theirs by law.
Today, because of lack of funds in the new Member States, they are not able to prevent the loss of their best researchers.
Members of Parliament, of the PPE-DE Group, and of the new Member States, are your allies in this struggle.After words, we must follow up with deeds. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if I were asked for the two main reasons why I consider the convergence in the positions of the Council Presidency, the Commission and Parliament that we see today to be important, I would reply that my first reason is that the social and environmental aspects of development are being sincerely acknowledged not as constraints and obstacles but as factors in our competitiveness.
My second reason is that we all agree that in order to properly relaunch the Lisbon Strategy it is essential to create a sense of ownership of the strategy that filters down to local levels, so that responsibility lies first and foremost with national governments and parliaments as well as with the public.
Madam&#160;President, you know very well how much I value that regulation and I would never risk jeopardising it by supporting the proposal for a resolution.
I should, however, like to call on my fellow Members not to regard the regulation as a symbol of good or evil any longer, as polarisation of that kind implies that in the end there will be winners and losers.
I believe, instead, that reaching agreement on that regulation would be a victory for us all. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr&#160;Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the two co-rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Lehne and Mr&#160;Harlem&#160;Désir, and above all the group of 33, including, too, those colleagues who will probably not take part in the vote.
I am rather sorry about that, but I can tell you that the working atmosphere was excellent, that we worked in extraordinarily good conditions and that I was highly satisfied as chairman.
It is important that the revitalisation of the Lisbon Strategy should be an indisputable priority and, for that to be the case, we must mobilise all the parties concerned.
Parliament has therefore set up its coordinating working group, with the sole aim of helping to improve the strategy’s implementation by making Parliament a clearer and more influential partner in the process than has previously been the case.
So far as this draft resolution is concerned, I therefore hope there will be a very large majority today in the vote.
That is why we also need to identify key measures like the importance of the service sector, special support for private businesses and also the need for a new regulation on chemical substances and the modernisation of the labour market.
Another important stage will begin next week with the holding in our Parliament in Brussels, under Mr&#160;Borrell’s presidency, of the first parliamentary meeting on the Lisbon Strategy with the national parliaments.
Our meeting will mark the opening of a parliamentary dialogue on this Lisbon Strategy.
The aim is to coordinate initiatives at parliamentary level so as to send a strong and consistent message to the Heads of State or Government on the eve of each European Council.
We will also be continuing our work on the other aspects of the mandate we have been given, namely to work at interinstitutional level for better legislative programming and to improve the transposition and implementation at national level of the measures taken within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
Indeed, as the Kok Report suggests, we want Parliament to play a proactive role in monitoring the results obtained from this strategy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner Verheugen, objectively speaking, the enlargement of the European Union brings us into a new era of new beginnings.
The President of the Commission and Commissioner Verheugen have presented us with very bold visions.
Commissioner Verheugen has spoken of values – values in the way businesses are run, values in social standards, values of social participation both in enterprise and in the life of society, describing these as vehicles with which the process of modernisation travels forwards.
While that is something I would underline, I do believe that the reality of life for many people is somewhat different.
If we want to bridge this gap, our instruments must be reformed first, and then the gap must be bridged in the broad outlines of economic policy and elsewhere, where I want to hear no more of stale ideologies, but more of how people really live in society.
If what we are working on together in this House is to become reality, it is our own instruments that must be reformed. &#160;&#160; Madam President, what was pompously called the Lisbon Strategy is turning into a farce.
As for prosperity, for our fellow citizens this is at present more synonymous with insecurity, loss of purchasing power and unemployment, the latter exemplified by the 8 million unemployed in the Franco-German nucleus.
For our contemporaries it is more a factor of inflation.
As for the Stability Pact, it is clearly in the process of breaking up.
Moreover, I fail to understand how anyone can support the euro without supporting the Stability Pact.
That point, at least, is a contradiction in terms, and I should like to draw the Commission’s attention to it.
All these are obviously arguments which will be used by the supporters of a ‘no’ vote, and we would be quite happy with that, were it not for the sad fact that what is at stake is the very notion of Europe, an idea that has unfortunately been compromised in the minds of our citizens, perhaps for a long time to come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of my first speeches when I became a Member of this Parliament five years ago was on the first Lisbon Strategy in April 2000.
I can assure you that this side of the House will work with you to get the measure through, because it is the most important measure for the internal market since the 1992 programme and it is crucial for jobs and employment.
I was delighted to hear that Commissioner Verheugen is going to bring forward a comprehensive programme for modernising and enhancing the conditions for small businesses.
That willonly be achieved when we have business-friendly policies and an environment in which people want to go out and start businesses, whether in services or in manufacturing and technical innovation.
That is the key to delivery of this Lisbon Agenda.
We stand ready, President Barroso, to work with you to achieve those goals. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the essential point of Parliament’s resolution is the definition of European competitiveness.
We include social and environmental sustainability in competitiveness.
For example, my country is just as competitive as the United States of America, to which we are frequently compared.
At the same time we have been able to maintain social and environmental sustainability, unlike the United States.
As a member of the Lisbon Committee, I was disappointed that the report is not insisting that the names of those Member States that have not implemented the Lisbon legislation should be repeatedly published.
If we want to achieve this united cooperation, but also this involvement, then we have already negotiated the most important hurdle to succeed.
It is impossible to drive a wedge between the EU’s competitiveness, social policy and ecology, because without growth, we cannot meet the ecological obligations.
More people in jobs is the best guarantee for social security’s affordability and for cushioning the rising cost of care, as well as the reform of affordable and lasting pensions.
This is independent of one’s political orientation, whether one is religious or atheist, woman or man.
We must forge an alliance to push ourselves and our national governments, and strive to convert public opinion to accept these changes, to subordinate their four-year electoral propaganda machines and their individual interests to Europe, and to the millions living in Europe.
We must be able to do so: we decide the future of our children and our grandchildren.
The question is not who says what, but who does what. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, growth is not a game where the sum total is zero.
In March 2000, we decided at Lisbon to maximise the competitiveness of Europe, subject to the limitations imposed by the maintenance of cohesion and environmental protection.
It is a strategy of hierarchical priorities.
Thus, the mid-term review summarises the Lisbon strategy in a simple equation: Emphasis on research and technology programmes + support for small and medium-sized enterprises + construction of crucial infrastructures + improved human resources + promotion of structural changes = maintainable long-term growth and sustainable development.
We must distinguish these objectives in the budget and we must not deny these objectives financing.
We must also remember that we cannot achieve more growth with less money, just as we cannot achieve financial stability with less growth. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, this is our first opportunity to acknowledge the importance of this debate on the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament's agreement to relaunch, and above all, to take the necessary practical measures in order to create, at long last, a Europe which is genuinely more competitive and innovative, while at the same time continuing to strengthen its best and most valuable asset: the European social model, with the quality of life and social rights that it guarantees the European citizens.
I particularly welcome Commissioner Verheugen's emphasis on innovation and funding, because efforts to give young Europeans better training, to improve training and skills among workers and employers, to increase the number of women at work with equal professional opportunities while maintaining a commitment to family life: all of these activities we are advocating today as MEPs will not be enough if we are unable to promote the public and private investment required to establish infrastructures in Europe that underpin economic development, and to make free circulation of goods, services and people a reality throughout the European Union.
This is currently being worked out in practice through the thirty trans-European network projects, which, like the Lisbon Strategy, have until now suffered from a certain degree of apathy and from funding problems on the Member States' side.
The Lisbon strategy could be this Commission’s vision.
One difference, though, is that Jacques Delors was dealing with Heads of Government like Chancellor Kohl and President Mitterrand, who had their own visions and goals for Europe.
That is what is crucial, and the Commission can contribute in various ways.
When handling the Lisbon strategy in future, we will have to take care that the economy, ecology and social objectives do not act against each other, but are instead all subordinated to the goals of the Lisbon strategy.
This House is right behind you. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the core of the Lisbon Strategy has to be jobs.
For that, we need active labour market policies to ensure that work is rewarded, the unemployed are helped to get work, and that training and retraining are central to everything we do.
The three institutions must develop laws that are easy to understand and enforce and achieve their stated objectives without detrimental side effects.
The starting point of the Services Directive is the screening of Member States’ laws hindering the establishment of services.
That is the key to the debate on the Lisbon Strategy: are Member States prepared to deliver on their promises?
In your relations with Member States, are you going to be a man or a mouse?
The answer to that will determine the success of your Commission and of the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the text of the recommendation trots out general principles that have already been accepted, precisely when a structured outline of specific measures to be adopted would be more desirable.
One might say that everyone agrees on the goals but few know what to do to achieve them.
On another point, the text emphasises the need to mobilise European public opinion so as to convince it of the benefits of the Lisbon Strategy and to make it accept them, but there is not a single word on cultural policies at either a European or a national level.
It talks of a culture of dialogue, but it does not even mention a dialogue of cultures.
Culture is not only an essential aspect of democracy; it is also the yardstick with which we can measure the gap between failure and success in a strategy like Lisbon, particularly if we want to preserve the European social model.
A knowledge-based economy implies a world view that only culture can provide.
Without them, the Lisbon Strategy will remain little more than a nice list of good intentions. &#160;&#160; Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Barroso, I believe the Lisbon Strategy is really something that can embody the added value of the European Union, namely a long-term vision, a goal.
However, we also have what is sometimes the cause of all the European Union’s failings: great ambitions but not the resources to match the targets we set ourselves.
Where, however, have we seen leadership being recreated or confidence restored by telling the citizens that nothing must change except their ability to make their employment more flexible?
If we really want to implement this strategy, a thorough reform of the Stability Pact will also be needed. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to the question 'is it possible to create six million new jobs in Europe by 2010?', is yes.
We cannot follow the example of those countries which have abandoned structural reforms and increased public spending.
A broad majority is the only way for Parliament to have political influence.
I feel that our influence consists of our having succeeded in our resolution in maintaining what is fundamental to the Lisbon Process, namely the balance between the three pillars of growth, social cohesion and environmental sustainability.
That is true, but it also applies the other way around; in other words, we need social cohesion and must make long-term sustainable investments if we are to achieve long-term growth.
If we in Parliament can effectively make this point to the Council and if it becomes policy in the future, then we shall have succeeded. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, at a time when the European Union has just undergone enlargement and we are confronted each and every day with huge differences in the development of countries and regions, it is impossible to view the Community’s tasks in isolation from the measures and efforts undertaken by the individual EU Member States.
The whole point of integration and the opportunities afforded by the Lisbon strategy is to act in solidarity to support less-advanced regions and to help them catch up.
The original premise of the Lisbon strategy was to provide an answer to the internal and external challenges we currently face.
Over the past year, however, we have not seen any evidence of new ideas or debates on how to reinvigorate the Lisbon process.
I believe that the fundamental reason why the Lisbon strategy has not yet been a success is that both the European Commission and the Member States, which signed up to the strategy in 2000, have lacked the political ability to make changes.
The latter are a prerequisite for the implementation of the strategy, and include in particular far-reaching liberalisation of the labour market, a lower level of welfare protection, an exhaustive review of regulatory barriers and major cuts in the amount of public money that is redistributed.
The Lisbon strategy has fallen foul to bureaucracy, and the latter has become the greatest obstacle to the development of innovation.
In order to achieve the goals it has set itself, Europe must forge new visions and develop common actions that unite all its Member States.
Priority should be given to linking up the principles of the Lisbon strategy with cohesion policy instruments and the funding earmarked for these instruments.
The new Member States have brought to the EU of 25 the vitality of a liberalised market, a strong spirit of entrepreneurship, a critical approach to over-regulation, a high level of compliance with Community legislation and rapid increases in productivity, as well as the synergy and similarities that exist between the Lisbon goals and the structural changes we have undergone in recent years.
It is difficult to achieve the second without having achieved the first. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I will be backing the resolution on which we are due to vote because I agree with what President Barroso said to the effect that the three children are now being treated on an equal footing.
I wholeheartedly support the policy outlined by Commissioner Verheugen to have the economy compete in terms of quality and not in terms of costs, for that would be a dead-end.
I would underline to Commissioner Potočnik that it is absolutely imperative that Community funding for research be substantially increased under the Seventh Framework Programme.
Fundamental research is essential, but equally we must facilitate the application of research and development in European businesses and foster innovation.
I would say to Commissioner McCreevy that facilitating the free movement of services is the missing key needed to unlock the potential of the European workforce and galvanise the European economy.
It is particularly important for our new Member States, which have been denied the advantage of free movement of people, goods and services for so long.
Please single out health services, consider the benchmark of good regulation, and deal with this specific area in a more appropriate way.
It is not a question of others being better in various areas, but of why they are better.
We also have to ask ourselves why, and what decisions we must take to change this state of affairs.
In each area in which our actions hinder competition, the result is a deterioration in competitiveness.
Those who are currently fighting the Services Directive with its free and open market for services are actually opposing new jobs and European growth in the future.
There is no conflict between the internal market and people’s social security, since nothing is as crucial for social security as a job and an income.
There is nothing so crucial to social cohesion as opportunities for new businesses and new jobs.
The most important integration process in the European Union is happening right now while we are sitting here.
We must therefore ask ourselves whether, in this process, we want to make it possible for every single Member State to exploit its particular competitive advantages.
The old Member States have had the advantage of developing their social economies and their competitiveness in peace and freedom for over fifty years.
The internal market must be characterised by everyone’s being able to exploit their competitiveness.
The Lisbon Strategy has set us a&#160;task which is not an easy one – to create new and higher quality jobs and, at the same time, to provide for the citizens of the European Union a&#160;similar or higher level of social security.
Most countries allocate substantial resources to pay for an army of unemployed.
In this day and age we can no longer ask women to have more children for the good of society and devote themselves to motherhood, and also expect them to bear all the financial consequences on their shoulders.
For this reason the countries of the European Union need to formulate systematically the kind of employment policy, including financial incentives and benefits, that will encourage employers to create jobs suitable for mothers, without either the employer or the mother herself suffering any negative consequences as a&#160;result.
Economising at the expense of motherhood is a&#160;poor investment for the future of society. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a practical observation to help resolve what I think is one of the essential aspects of our problem, which is to go beyond the statements of principle and somehow get down to more concrete evaluations of our strategy.
In view of that, I ask that the Commission should be able to assign responsibility to those in power and to promote action in the area of human capital.
As the Union budget quite rightly obliges us to provide for agriculture to the tune of 50%, this step would prevent Europe from remaining just a guardian of animal capital rather than the promoter of human capital. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in early February the Commission presented a revised version of the Lisbon strategy, which was approved one month later by the Member States.
This is a good thing in itself, yet unfortunately this does not provide an answer to the contradiction inherent in the project, namely that the problems with which the European Union is struggling are due to the over-regulation of every area of economic activity.
The impact of this over-regulation is quite simply devastating, and it leads to low – or, in some Member States, zero – GDP growth and high unemployment.
Liberalisation in the sense of the four freedoms has always acted as the foundation of the Community, and care must therefore be taken to ensure that any legislation that is adopted serves to promote effective liberalisation and freedom instead of over-regulation.
The Lisbon strategy also fails to mention a number of obvious problems that have arisen as a result of the EU’s enlargement to include ten new Member States.
Such problems relate primarily to discrimination against workers from the new Member States on the labour markets of 12 of the old Member States.
In aeronautics and space technologies, with Galileo for example, European industry has demonstrated its ability to make up lost ground.
The gap between the old and the new members of the European Union is closing: 5% growth for the new, around 2% for the old.
This shows that Europe has tremendous creative ability.
However, the US is producing growth, it is producing research, it is producing jobs.
The revival of economic growth is certainly not synonymous with dismantling the European social model.
That is why the presidency advocates growth as a way of fostering social cohesion, because social cohesion and economic growth are closely linked and in a way enrich one another.
In this respect, I think the European Parliament’s resolution is an important contribution to the great reform project which the relaunch of the Lisbon Strategy represents.
Your messages have been heard: more research, a better translation of research and innovation into new products and new services, better access to, and wider dissemination of, new technologies and innovation, enabling new knowledge to be better anchored in the economy and in society&#160;–&#160;a project for a knowledge-based economy that is the opposite of a society which marginalises large sections of the population&#160;– and accelerated development of the eco-technologies that can allow Europe to affirm its leadership in its future activities.
It is unfortunately often too difficult to find the financial resources to establish a business.
However, social innovation, investment in human capital and lifelong training are also ways of ensuring that flexibility, a term on which there is broad agreement, does not preclude a necessary amount of security.
We do not want a multi-speed society, we want everyone to share in growth, economic development and the expansion of knowledge.
Knowing that these are crucial days for the EU’s economy and for its economic development, we would be deceiving ourselves if we thought we could relaunch the Lisbon Strategy successfully without being able to agree on a serious reform of the Stability and Growth Pact.
We cannot face the media saying ‘yes, we succeeded in relaunching the Lisbon Strategy but we failed to come to any agreement over the Stability Pact’.
Europe needs structural reforms just as it needs a macroeconomic framework that will create a proper balance between stability on the one hand and growth and employment on the other.
At the same time, however, future investments cannot be used to pay the price for a purely accounting approach that has nothing to do with good economic policy.
People will be watching the European Union very closely over the next two weeks.
It may also fail, putting at risk its future development, the confidence people have in its economy and also, perhaps even more seriously – as a number of speakers have pointed out – putting at risk the strong support it will need from its citizens if it is to succeed.
In close cooperation with the Commission and attentive to your Parliament, the presidency wishes to make a success of this great partnership project that we are in the process of getting off the ground.
We are counting on Parliament’s support as next week it organises a big meeting on the Lisbon Strategy with the national parliaments.
The Lisbon Strategy is also an issue of democracy, it needs the backing and support of our societies.
From it I conclude that Parliament is broadly in support of the new Lisbon Strategy.
Our very positive exchange of views shows that the Commission can consider the European Parliament a genuine partner for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy.
It is also a revolution in the sense of our partnership: we are going to work together and we are all –&#160;Parliament, Commission, Council&#160;– capable of reaching a dynamic consensus, not a consensus of inaction or paralysis, but a dynamic consensus for the changes that are needed in our Europe.
I was then working with the Commission and the Member States, and it was Europe that led the debate on sustainable development at the Rio conference.
I believe that is an obvious conclusion from our debate.
Having said that, we are all now aware that Europe urgently needs to raise its level of growth.
Growth and job creation are particularly urgent objectives.
I am of course very pleased with the debate because we have shown that consensus was possible.
The Commission, for its part, will do all it can to make the new Lisbon Strategy a success.
The Commission now knows that it can count on the European Parliament for the achievement of this objective.
However, Parliament will have to be an active partner, taking account of the Commission’s demands.
Services account for 70% of our economy.
We have an internal market for goods, but still have 25 different markets for services.
I also want to stress our support for all that Commissioner McCreevy said about the services directive yesterday.
We are also very attentive to what has been said about human capital and the priority of human capital.
Indeed, our concept of human capital is not a technocratic view.
Culture is also a part of our objectives for the knowledge economy.
We have definite programmes to encourage a growth economy, but also a knowledge-based economy, at European level.
In this context, I would like to answer a specific question put to me by Mr&#160;Daul&#160;– whom I would like to congratulate as chairman of the Committee of 33, together with all the rapporteurs who have made a broad consensus on your resolution possible.
For our part, we agree to the holding of a tripartite summit of the presidents of the three institutions to discuss the Lisbon Strategy.
As you know, our medium-term objective is that the three institutions should work together.
Now we are looking to the European Council in the expectation and, if I may say so, the certainty that it will, in turn, give the necessary political impetus to the relaunch of Lisbon and the preparation of a European strategy for growth and employment.
Many of you -&#160;Mr&#160;Karas, Mr&#160;Radwan, Mr&#160;Watson, Mr&#160;Titley, Mr&#160;Harbour&#160;– have stressed how important it now is that the Member States should be committed.
Of course, the Commission now feels stronger due to the support which the European Parliament is giving to the new Lisbon Strategy.
The proposals made by ourselves and the European Parliament must not now be weakened when they come to be implemented, the Member States must also be able to commit themselves and national public opinion must understand that the new Lisbon Strategy is not purely decorative but is really at the heart of the programmes for economic reform, social cohesion and sustainable development in Europe.
In conclusion I must say that, for me, the great result of this debate is this willingness to work together, the possibility of reaching a dynamic consensus and also the broad support for the new Lisbon Strategy and, beyond that support, the fact that, for the next five years, it will be at the centre of the work done by our institutions and at the core of the reforms that will have to be undertaken by our Member States. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.30 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have an oral amendment.
I would like the second half of paragraph 11 to read as follows: ‘stresses that inclusion of the EDF in the budget of the European Union should be accompanied by reinforcement of the political role of the JPA in monitoring the funds committed to the framework of the ACP-EU partnership’. &#160;&#160; .
I will therefore do as you ask. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to alert you to an error in some of the language versions of Amendment&#160;29.
The original version, or in other words the English version, is the authentic text, which reads as follows; ‘Urges the Commission to come forward with an initiative to ensure … ’ and not ‘come forward with an initiative on liberalisation’, as stated in the French version, because one of the aims of this amendment, which was tabled by mutual agreement, was to delete these words. &#160;&#160; I agree with you entirely, Mr Désir, that the words ‘on liberalisation’ have been included in the French version by mistake.
Although the texts will in any case be checked later, the amendment falls because one of the two parts of Amendment&#160;5 has been adopted. &#160;&#160; In my opinion, the fact that the first part of Amendment&#160;5 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been adopted does not mean that Amendment&#160;29 should fall. &#160;&#160; The amendments relate to the same words, Mr&#160;Désir, ‘new initiative’ and ‘initiative’.
These countries have a special significance and importance for the great majority of the Member States in particular and for the whole European Union in general, both for historical reasons and also simply out of a sense of international responsibility.
Because this is an important and useful relationship, as reflected in the activities of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, it must be both honest and consistent with the principles upheld and regularly demanded by the European Union.
Good relations between the two sides are not just desirable but essential, but they are only possible – and only useful – if based on a philosophy of upholding the values in which we believe and, consequently, if the European Union does not hesitate to criticise – and to act accordingly – in cases where the countries in question do not fulfil their duties towards the international community or towards their own citizens.
These relations are fundamental in a Europe that wants to be open to the world and is committed to strengthening dialogue with its strategic partners, along the lines of its historical ties.
I voted for the report. &#160;&#160; We have voted in favour of the report in its entirety because, in many areas, it contains important improvements on the Commission’s original proposal (for example, the elimination of the requirement of a double transformation process etc.).
The GSP guarantees preferential access for products from about 178 countries.
The current proposal brings forward the scheme’s entry into force and opens up the GSP to particularly sensitive products for Portugal (tuna preserves, tomato concentrate, textiles and clothing).
When looked at more closely, the GSP has something in common with the entire GATT and WTO system; it owes its existence to a redundant theory, namely that customs duties should be reduced with the aim of ultimately abolishing them.
A more innovative idea would be to introduce a system for deducting customs duties.
In that context, and as the rapporteur explicitly mentions in his explanatory statement, ‘the GSP therefore needs to be consistent with development policy objectives and compatible with the Doha Programme’.
The Doha Round is, indeed, an important ongoing step towards a more open and fairer world economy and, as the rapporteur proposes, that understanding must be present in the GSP.
I also realise that one of the areas where sustainable development is promoted is in improving the economic situation of developing countries, especially those countries that are least integrated into the international trading system.
Lastly, I wish to highlight the simplification achieved by cutting the number of arrangements from five to three, so that now there is a general arrangement, a special arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, and a special arrangement for the least developed countries (‘Everything but Arms’ – EBA).
I voted for the report. &#160;&#160; . ‘I and my British Conservative colleagues have supported the report by Mr.
This is, indeed, one of the things that I often fight for in each budget, given that it strikes me as essential that we bring Europe – its projects, its designs and its actions – ever closer to the citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to draw the attention of the House to two matters being considered by the Committee on Petitions at the moment.
The first concerns Mike and Ann Radford, two constituents of mine from Chipping Barnet, who bought a property in Cyprus in the 1980s and for 14 years have been trying to get redress from their builder for a faulty retaining wall.
This practice, which might at times appear to be of little use, is above all a sign of democratic humility and readiness to listen to the citizens, which are characteristics of prime importance in a democratic society.
As I have always advocated: - It provides for greater involvement in the process of decision-making and implementation for Parliament (‘a real culture of dialogue should be developed with the Parliament’), alongside the Commission (with which a ‘strong partnership’ should be established) and the Council (it is proposed that tripartite meetings should be held between the three Institutions), and the national parliaments (with which Parliament should also establish a ‘strong partnership’), as well as ‘increased involvement of regional and local authorities’; and - It calls for budgetary resources at national and Community level to be commensurate with the objectives set within the scope of the Lisbon Agenda; this must be reflected in the financial perspectives for 2007-2013 and in the Structural Funds, as reworked within the framework of the cohesion policy.
Its proposals for solving these problems consist of even more Europeanisation – more market liberalisation, more regulatory constraints on firms, fewer public services, more European and global competition, less public funding and less welfare protection.
The social and environmental goals of the Lisbon Strategy mark one have been done away with, and all-encompassing competition and productivity put in their place.
Nonetheless, the principle of subsidiarity – which is supposed to be a guiding principle of EU cooperation – means that the Member States should have the right to weigh up differently the conflicting objectives that democratic government has to deal with.
The underlying purpose of this draft is to shift even more political decisions from the Member States to the institutions of the EU.
The June List has been mandated by its electorate to oppose such centralisation of power in Europe and therefore rejects the draft in its entirety.
Moreover, we have opposed several amendments that we would in principle support in the Swedish Parliament, but which we oppose at EU level out of concern for democracy in the Member States.
We have voted against a number of amendments that would undermine the market and enterprise driven policies that we believe a revised Lisbon agenda should champion.’ &#160;&#160; I fully subscribe to the Lisbon goals of strengthening employment, economic reform, enhancing competitiveness, completing the internal market, Social Cohesion and environmental protection as engines of a sustainable growth-orientated economy.
I therefore believe that the resolution before us articulates a vision that I share: sustainable growth and employment must be the EU’s most pressing objectives and achieving those objectives will promote environmental and social progress.
Otherwise, apart from asking for greater determination on the part of the Commission, the proposed text confines itself to reiterating principles laid down in the original strategy.
Our orientations are, and have always been, sustainable development, social cohesion, improved working conditions, more jobs, continuing or dynamic training and economic competitiveness.
While we are all aware that their use protects the environment and helps with compliance with the Kyoto Protocol, the positive effects of their use include, among many others, increased competitiveness, added regional value and the creation of jobs in rural areas.
The priorities set in 2000 have been redefined on the basis of the ongoing concerns of European citizens, namely growth and jobs.
The next step is a single national programme and the appointment of a ‘Lisbon Czar’ for each Member State, who will be responsible for monitoring the actions of the Lisbon Strategy and for simplifying methods of assessment.
In the name of the competitiveness of the economy of united Europe (in other words of its monopolies), an unprecedented attack has been unleashed on the employment and social rights of the grass-roots classes.
The aim is to use so-called active forms of employment in order to extend flexible forms of work and push back the retirement age; in other words, to create cheap, flexible manpower which will be easy prey for exploitation by the monopolies with impunity.
The organised resistance, disobedience and fight of the majority of the grass-roots classes in the ΕU against the Lisbon anti-labour strategy is the only way out. &#160;&#160; The resolution concerning the Lisbon Strategy contains much that is commendable.
These three dimensions of development must be mutually supportive.
The idea of ‘growth first – we can deal with the rest afterwards’ is wrong and represents an unfortunate return to the debate that took place prior to the EU’s adoption of its sustainability strategy in Gothenburg in 2001.
The EU faces a number of difficult challenges in the area of the environment.
The risk of irreversible climate change is particularly serious.
To address this problem we need to rethink our energy and transport systems in Europe, and this is something that must primarily take place through substantial investment in innovation and the development of new technology.
At the same time, European countries would develop top-level expertise in an area in which the entire world is crying out for new solutions.
Neither the Commission’s proposal nor Parliament’s resolution puts sufficient emphasis on these aspects.
The Council will also discuss the sustainable development strategy and the Kyoto Protocol.
Instead, I will focus on the other two or three topics.
The first of these is the Stability and Growth Pact.
It was discussed on several occasions during the Dutch Presidency, and every Ecofin meeting under the Luxembourg Presidency has taken the issue as its central focus.
As the Ecofin Council was unable to reach an agreement on a report to the European Council during its meeting of 8&#160;March, the Presidency will continue talks with the aim of finding a solution that is acceptable to everyone and that can be presented to the Heads of State or Government.
Another meeting of the Ecofin Council has been called for 20&#160;March, or in other words two days before the European Council meets.
At the same time, however, a compromise at all costs – a cut-price compromise, one could say – would be an equally poor solution.
I will now move on to sustainable development and the Kyoto Protocol, both of which are obviously also closely linked to the Lisbon Strategy, given that this morning we came to the conclusion that the environmental aspect of the Lisbon Strategy should be&#160;retained or even given extra weight.
It is therefore quite natural that the European Council should also deal with issues relating to sustainable development and the Kyoto Protocol.
The Presidency believes that sustainable development should be an overarching concept, and one of the aims of the European Council will be to clarify how changes to the sustainable development strategy should be tackled in future.
For example, the guiding principles of sustainable development could be enshrined in a charter, one of the main components of which would be a series of relevant indicators to be used in the various policies in the future.
The Commission could submit a proposal to this effect to the European Council to be held in June.
We all agree that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, and that it has a major impact in environmental, economic and social terms.
It should be plain to everyone that the European Council has a very full agenda; it will deal with issues that are of major significance for the future of the European Union, yet at the same time it will also reassure Europeans that this Europe of ours is concerned about their present and future problems. &#160;&#160; .
Let me single out the two main deliverables for this European Council.
First, there is the need to relaunch the Lisbon Strategy and to re-focus it on growth and jobs in order to bring our wider economic, social and environmental objectives within reach.
People need to see a real commitment from Member States.
That is why our new approach to working to support Members States in delivering on the Lisbon objectives is critical.
Second, we must ensure that a stronger Stability and Growth Pact emerges from the summit with its credibility reinforced.
Both these goals are well within our grasp, and I would like to comment on each one in turn.
In relation to Lisbon, I would simply emphasise the importance of giving fresh momentum to the process of reform.
That is why the European Council should make a clear commitment to the new governance mechanisms, the new integrated guidelines and the national and EU Lisbon programmes, with simple reporting and better coordination of reforms at a national level.
The launch and follow-up to the renewed Lisbon approach must be prepared via close cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
The Presidency has opted to hold a further meeting of ministers prior to the European Council.
The Commission will continue to fight for the principles it submitted, in particular for reform of the pact.
The preventive aspect of the pact can be improved, in particular by defining medium-term budgetary targets specific to each country.
As for the Commission, it will continue to make all possible efforts with the Presidency and Member States to reach an agreement – but not an agreement at any price.
On some of them, such as sustainable development and climate change, it is also vital to reach agreement if we are to use the Lisbon reforms to underpin sustainable growth.
It must set the tone for future reforms by relaunching Lisbon and reinforcing the credibility of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Any fine distinctions we may wish to introduce in areas such as which institution does what, or whether the new Lisbon strategy is more to the left, right or centre, will be irrelevant to the majority of our citizens.
It is therefore extremely important to send a consistent message and to show that we are really working together in the interests of our Europe.
Projecting an image of disharmony between institutions or conveying a tentative or pessimistic message on the future of Europe would inevitably have a negative effect on public opinion, something particularly dangerous at a time when the constitutional treaty is going through the ratification process.
It is therefore vital to show the European Council that we can assist Europe in moving up to a higher gear.
We can launch the reform process and begin to mobilise opinion in favour of a European renewal.
For my own part, I remain convinced that the foundations of the Stability and Growth Pact must not be tampered with.
A single, integral budget cannot be evaluated both with and without whole categories of expenditure.
After all, the Pact – containing as it does also a substantial growth component – does make provision for the possible nuanced valuation of a national budget in the light of the country’s current position in the economic cycle.
The ECOFIN Council has listed possible approaches to a more finely-honed evaluation of the nation states’ efforts at achieving stability.
I very much hope that some of these will prove the key to bringing about a final agreement prior to the summit on 22 and 23 March.
The disappointing results at the end of its first half are, in essence, attributable to a too widely-dispersed range of goals.
If I consider it as an economist – which is what I was trained to be – then there are many countries that make a success of things without stability rules; the USA is often quoted as an example.
There are countries that strictly observe stability rules and achieve but little success, and the reverse also occurs.
In any case – and I am speaking on my group’s behalf when I say this – we wish the Luxembourg Presidency much success.
It has brought with it all that is needed to resolve this issue with, not least, a new and rational reform of the Stability and Growth Pact. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, with the Lisbon strategy and the Stability and Growth Pact, the prime focus of the forthcoming spring meeting of the European Council will be issues of economic policy.
With unemployment at 9% in Europe and a growth forecast of only 1.6% in the euro zone, it is perfectly clear that the time for talking is over and we need to take fundamental action in order to relaunch growth and employment.
It is only when we have agreed on these basic, common-sense principles that we can open the debate on possible changes in the pact.
Moreover, these changes must take account of the nature of economic cycles and the necessary distinction between an operating deficit and an investment deficit.
There is another and even more important question facing us: can we live in the longer term with common budgetary discipline while at the same time operating different economic policies?
I believe we must urgently decide to coordinate our economic policies, failing which we shall never be able to generate our own growth.
If we want to create growth and employment, if we want to continue to implement an innovative social model, the only solution is to do more at European level. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Madam Vice-President, on the issue of the Stability and Growth Pact, our group unequivocally backs the efforts of the Luxembourg Presidency and, in particular, supports the idea of a list of relevant factors, as indicated by Mr&#160;Juncker.
From this point of view, the triangle to which Mr Juncker referred at the start of the Luxembourg Presidency when discussing the Lisbon strategy, the Stability Pact and the financial perspective, makes a lot of sense.
I believe that interpretation of the Stability Pact should echo the readiness of Member States to make extra budgetary efforts in order to obtain a financial perspective and a European Union budget fit for purpose and able to deliver the objectives we should like it to achieve.
From this point of view, the political timing is not particularly good, since we are asking the spring meeting of the European Council to reach agreement on Lisbon and on the Stability Pact, while possibly postponing the debate on the financial perspective until June.
However, I believe that this danger of a rift between the new Member States, in particular, and the old Member States is a political risk which should not be underestimated in this whole debate.
The European Commission has issued a report on the Community strategy for sustainable development which therefore concerns the Union’s sectoral policies.
We want successful policies and we want the Commission and Council to abide seriously by the Gothenburg commitments. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel, quite frankly, that the debate in this Chamber is rather paradoxical, since we are taking a fragmented approach to issues such as the Lisbon Strategy, the Financial Perspectives, the forthcoming European Council and the possible ways to reform the Stability and Growth Pact.
Indeed, social cohesion and growth in the number and quality of jobs have certainly not been facilitated by policies focusing on competitiveness, nor by monetarist policies.
To achieve that, it is necessary on the left to break out of the Stability Pact straitjacket so as to invest within individual countries – but also directly as the European Union – in research, innovation and whatever else is needed to promote development.
For the first time, we can now see the list of the groups.
It can be found on the Commission’s website or, even easier, can be downloaded from my website at bonde.com.
I would also like to thank the Commission for agreeing that in future we can find out about all the contributions from the Commission to the Council of Ministers and its working groups.
Eighty-five per cent of all legislation is finally completed in 300 working groups and in Coreper.
It is almost too good to be true.
Likewise, there cannot be a simple free-market area, where everyone can do whatever they wish, without any restrictions.
That is why the Stability and Growth Pact is a good thing, in spite of the faults and mistakes in its operation that have recently been highlighted.
However, I would warn against making widespread changes or reducing the powers contained within the Stability and Growth Pact.
Let us not forget that the Growth Pact itself cannot be seen in isolation: it must also be seen in coordination with the broad economic policy guidelines that are laid down.
It will ensure that we in Europe can give the very highest standard of jobs, training and, most importantly of all, social protection to all our citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw the Council’s attention to the fact that the brutal action taken on the part of the Turkish police against demonstrators a few days ago has resulted in quite justified protests across Europe and even – or should I say at long last – in it being asked somewhat more overtly whether a country such as Turkey could be a Member or candidate country of the European Union at all.
I would like to repeat that Turkey is not a European country politically, culturally, economically or historically speaking, and I have not even mentioned the problem of Islam, although no one would deny that the possible enlargement to include a country of 70 to 100 million Islamists threatens to fundamentally change the nature of our society.
I would urge the Council to revisit the Turkey issue as a matter of urgency, and also for internal and democratic reasons.
I consider the way in which in the past few months, in all European countries, debate on Turkey’s accession has been made impossible and the way in which the verdict of the voters and citizens on this subject has been avoided, to be totalitarian and undemocratic.
Our citizens are intelligent enough to decide for themselves on Turkey’s membership in a referendum.
Anyone who denies them and us the right – and indeed, anyone who denies us in this House the right, let me say now – to address the Council at any time about this fundamental problem, does the European Union a disservice and brings us a step closer to a totalitarian European regime, something that we cannot tolerate under any circumstances.
It is the Council’s duty to discuss this as a matter of high priority. &#160;&#160; &#160;I regret to say that despite my request, Mr&#160;Vanhecke, what you said did not relate to the subject of our debate.
We need to be defining Europe now in line with the mandate of the current Commission and of this House.
We discussed the Lisbon reforms this morning, so I am going to return to the importance of the Stability Pact.
Since it is the larger Member States who are forcing us to revise the Pact, we need to know what they are willing to do – which is what we have just heard.
How much you are willing to concede will determine our future credibility, our economic strength, and will affect whether or not we avoid the economic crisis I anticipate in the coming years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the forthcoming summit is doubly interesting from the point of view of sustainable development.
Sustainable growth and competitiveness cannot be achieved without the highest possible levels of environmental and social protection.
The mid-term review of the sustainable development programme undertaken this year must see the creation of an ambitious strategy that reaches far into the future.
It should be directly linked to the Lisbon strategy and it should also serve to guide different policy areas within the European Union.
The spirit of Cardiff needs to be revived and we should examine the sustainability of the European Union’s various policies more closely, confronting those factors that are leading in the direction of unsustainable development.
The European Union must continue to be the organisation that shows the way globally in environmental policy.
One cannot claim rights, justice or different standards of morality when in Europe and, on the other hand, insist on a pragmatic approach based on financial practicality when in Spain or Italy.
The President of Parliament and also the main political groups are to blame for that.
We owe it above all to the younger generation to make a practical commitment to the future of our economy.
The young need to be able to look forward to a future of stability, security and social cohesion, thanks to measures helping them to enter the workforce and to have access to credit, as well as measures directed towards the right to a home and a family.
To conclude, I believe that the European Union needs to make a strong commitment to guarantee effective opportunities for Europe’s younger generations.
That is what we are calling for, and that is what young people above all are expecting. &#160;&#160; Mr President, right now, it is not difficult to feel some sympathy with the Commission and the Council as they try to find a sensible solution to the problem of the Stability Pact.
The whole thing is a virtual ruin and has precipitated another crisis of confidence in Europe.
For the sake of the young and of all those who still, with a certain euphoria, believe in Europe, I really do hope you will manage to cut this particular Gordian knot.
So, quite seriously, I wish you every success at the forthcoming Council, and at it, may you succeed in getting this stumbling-block out of the European Union’s way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Spring Council will no doubt be dominated by the mid-term review of the Lisbon Agenda.
We want to see a stronger commitment by national governments to real and enduring economic reform.
The Council will be considering other matters too, including the international situation.
The visit of the President of the United States to Europe last month heralded a new chapter in the world's most important geopolitical partnership.
If Europe wants to be a serious partner alongside the United States in the fight against terrorism and the spread of WMD, then it must work more closely with our American friends. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to say something about the Stability and Growth Pact, because it is regrettable that the ECOFIN Council failed to reach agreement on it earlier this week.
This was borne out this morning during the discussion of the Lisbon strategy.
It seems that the leaders at the summit predominantly want to create a catalogue of excuses which will help them escape discipline and which they can use for all possible kinds of policy.
My group favours a strong role for the Commission and considers that the rules of the game and the assessments should be drafted jointly, from a European perspective. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to ask the Council what happened to Gothenburg and what now remains of Gothenburg, because in my view the answer is: very little.
At the same time, they will take decisions which will speed up the political and military presence of the European Union in more countries and they will seal the joint front of the United States and the European Union in the war against the peoples.
However, there are also sacrifices with the prospect of a better life, by which I mean the organised fight against the barbarity and exploitation of the European Union and the governments. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the forthcoming Spring European Council has two main topics: the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact and the review of the Lisbon Strategy.
Looking beyond the current compromises, inevitable hypocrisies and tiresome tactical manoeuvring between those who want rigour and those who want flexibility, between grasshoppers and ants, the essence of the debate on the Stability and Growth Pact still remains the golden rule, or how to introduce flexibility into the budget rules honourably, without resorting to opportunistic or artful means.
A golden rule applied will do little for development, while it is liable to lose us our credibility and reputation.
A clear strategy of deficit spending on objectives at a European level would be more useful, but we are probably not yet mature enough to make that kind of choice.
The same may be said for the review of the Lisbon Strategy.
What is needed are direct-action instruments, such as European action plans, but we are not yet mature enough for those either.
The challenges of globalisation really do not leave us much time any more. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the stalemate that has been created in recent days over the review of the Stability and Growth Pact shows that we have to learn how to manage flexibility.
Instead, we need to follow the obvious path of having a single important exception, allowing the possibility of derogation only for precise, circumscribed European initiatives in the areas of training, research and major physical and intangible infrastructure networks.
We also need to enhance the credibility of this Union for entrepreneurs as well as citizens at large.
If we really intend to enhance efficiency and motivation, then we must open up without further delay.
I hope that the European Council will show enough political will to make our citizens believe that Member States are serious about creating the conditions for dynamic growth.
This will also be a test for the EU’s solidarity. &#160;&#160; I would like to contribute to this debate as a Member representing a newly acceded country, and for whom the question of a social Europe is especially important.
We all of us know how great the difference in the standard of living is between the newly acceded and the older Member States.
Social questions belong among the responsibilities of Member States, but appropriate coordination among institutions at Union level is vital.
Let us admit, though, that in the background of this discussion, there will also be the question related to the financial perspectives that is linked to Lisbon and the Stability Pact – because in the end it is the financial means that the European Union will have for the coming years, which will determine whether and to what degree, we will be able to put into practice the vision of Europe to which Mr Barroso referred.
This is where we have to remember that the new Member States still have a low standard of living when compared to the European average and, despite this, are still expected to implement the reforms required by the Lisbon strategy as well as by the Stability Pact.
As Mr Barroso himself said, you cannot have more Europe with less money. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, any German in this House will find it particularly difficult to talk about the forthcoming Council and the Stability and Growth Pact, for you know how hard the Germans found it to abandon the Deutschmark.
Of course, it is particularly problematic when, out of all the Member States, it is the larger ones, such as Germany and France, who, having compelled the smaller countries – including those in southern Europe – to accept this Pact, themselves breach it, breaking its rules and even altering it when they get into difficulties.
Our position on this issue is that the Commission’s hand must be strengthened, and it must continue to be a player.
What the European Council should bear in mind, when coming to its conclusions on 22 and 23 March, is that the Commission must be put in a stronger position, and that there are several changes we can talk about.
It would be extremely serious if the European Union, on an issue like the Stability and Growth Pact, should see divisions, for instance, between old and new members.
We must not weaken the Commission or the Commission's role in managing the Stability Pact, and there is no question as far as the Presidency is concerned of somehow withdrawing the Commission from its role in the area of budgetary surveillance.
Thus, this aspect appears particularly important.
The Presidency’s proposals, on which agreement has still to be reached, clearly tend to introduce greater flexibility, because in some quarters greater flexibility is required.
However, at the same time, they aim to create a more precise framework specifically to enable the deficit to be assessed.
I believe we are all sufficiently familiar with economic rules and laws to know that no two deficits are necessarily identical in nature.
Next, I believe the pact has to be more closely related to economic cycles, and that it should still be possible to modify any instrument of economic policy in the light of experience.
We have also discussed the Lisbon strategy at length this morning – a strategy based, inter alia, on investment.
Without wishing to refer to any one country in particular, although one has already been mentioned, we have to acknowledge that some countries have experienced fairly exceptional events, and it would not be acceptable for such exceptional factors not to be taken into account, to some degree.
Turning to sustainable development, I can say to Mrs&#160;Isler-Béguin that we have firmly insisted on maintaining the environmental dimension in the Lisbon strategy – not only on maintaining it but also genuinely incorporating it in all policies right across the board.
We continue to regard the strategy of sustainable development as fully valid.
This debate has shown the need for a coherent and consistent approach.
We must ensure that the policies on the Stability Pact, the Lisbon Strategy and the Sustainable Development Strategy go hand in hand.
During the debate this morning on the Lisbon Strategy you also made the point that the very concrete proposals we have been discussing for some time must uphold this balance.
We must ensure that our policies include all three of those elements and that they reinforce one another.
I wish to thank all those who have raised issues concerning the Lisbon Strategy and assure them that the Commission will take due note of all these issues.
I would remind you that we have enhanced transparency as regards expert groups in the context of negotiations on the framework agreement.
Unfortunately, while some members of that Group put difficult questions, they have not stayed long enough to hear the responses as regards, for example, the Stability Pact, which is another important issue.
We sometimes seem to lose sight of what has been achieved through the Stability Pact.
The Pact has helped us to re-establish financial stability in Europe and enabled us to cooperate rather than to drive our currencies against each other.
At the same time, if we are prepared to increase the flexibility of our rules, we also need to take steps to improve the quality of our cooperation at European Union level.
The euro has brought our economies closer together, and national economic policies have become a common concern.
If we want to maintain a meaningful fiscal surveillance system then we should also strengthen our institutional settings and provide greater incentives for cooperation and sound fiscal policies in Europe.
The Commission will continue to work in a constructive way with the Luxembourg Presidency to ensure it is possible for the necessary changes to be made, to modernise and to harness the progress made to reinforce our other policies.
Thank you for the contributions to the debate on the Stability Pact, which the Commission considers does not need re-writing, but to be interpreted in a way that guarantees its effectiveness and credibility.
The Commission will look into the details of creating a charter for sustainable development, which must include very concrete policies and actions.
Indeed, nothing of what has been said about the Stability Pact, the Lisbon Strategy or sustainable development will lead anywhere unless we start to take action.
The overall challenge for us is one of implementation: to maintain consensus, ensure best use of governance and secure the support of European citizens for what we are doing.
It has intervened on a number of occasions with the Libyan authorities at the highest level, to ensure, in particular, that they were given a fair and equitable trial, especially in view of the fact that Professors Montanier and Collezzi in their final report on the HIV virus infection in Benghazi hospital had concluded that the five nurses and the doctor were innocent.
In all its actions, the Council has always worked in close cooperation with the Bulgarian authorities and has had the support of other international partners.
Irrespective of the question of responsibility for the contamination in Benghazi hospital, it is clear that the issue has aroused strong feelings, particularly among the victims’ families, but also among the population generally.
This is why the Council has expressed its profound sympathy with the people infected with the virus at Benghazi hospital.
The Council now awaits a gesture from Libya.
At its meeting on 11 October 2004, the Council invited Libya to make a positive response to the European Union’s proposed policy of engagement.
In this context, the Council insisted that Libya should meet the European Union’s concerns, particularly on the question of the Bulgarian and Palestinian medical personnel.
The Council feels that a review of the evidence will lead Libya to conclude that a rapid release of the five Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor would be in the best interests of justice.
In order to fully address this issue, it is necessary to widen the scope of the discussion to also address the issue of the families in Benghazi affected by the mass HIV infection.
The Commission considers these to be two separate dramas, but they have been linked by the verdict pronounced in May 2004 against the Bulgarian and Palestinian medical staff currently detained in Libya.
We can use this extensive experience to help the Libyan authorities deal with this situation and contribute to alleviating the plight of the stricken families in Benghazi.
On numerous occasions the Commission and the EU have expressed their utmost compassion and solidarity as regards the situation in Benghazi.
On the basis of a technical assessment carried out by the Commission in August 2004 and endorsed by the Council, the EU is now implementing an action plan aimed at addressing some of the issues faced by the Bengahzi families and also at enhancing capacities in the health sector in Libya.
The implementation of this action plan is an act of solidarity aimed at expressing EU compassion by addressing specific identified needs in Libya.
In November 2004, the Commission organised an international meeting to launch the action plan and it is working closely with the Gaddafi Foundation to implement it.
I shall now address the issue of the five Bulgarian and Palestinian medical staff detained in Libya since 1999.
It therefore came as a great disappointment and a source of concern when last May they were condemned to death on grounds that remain, in the Commission's view, unclear and unsatisfactory.
The Commission has remained involved in working with the Libyan authorities to reach a satisfactory outcome to this issue.
The EU made two formal approaches, at Prime Ministerial level, on 12 June and 27 June 2004.
On 3 October 2004, a Commission official visited the Bulgarian and Palestinian medical staff to express its support for the detainees and to convey its concerns to the Libyan authorities.
On 11 October 2004, the Council again expressed its grave concern over the plight of the medical workers and asked Libya to consider the release of the medical staff on the basis of a re-examination of the existing evidence.
The Commission will continue to attach high priority to this dramatic issue and is constantly seeking ways to contribute to a positive outcome.
It will remain in contact with the Libyan authorities, the Gaddafi Foundation and the Bulgarian authorities.
The EU has decided to embark upon a policy of engagement with Libya and has already given considerable recognition to the significant steps taken by Libya to secure reintegration into the international community.
Libya has been invited to move towards formal relations with the EU as a Mediterranean partner and as a close neighbour.
I very much welcome the decision of the European Union's General Affairs and External Relations Council on 11 October 2004 to provide assistance to the Libyan health services.
This situation was dramatically worsened on 6 May last year when a Libyan court sentenced the Bulgarian nurses to death by firing squad.
The most reputable international experts have testified that the problem of HIV infection was due to an in-hospital infection, which began over a year before the Bulgarians were hired by the Benghazi hospital.
This is what the declaration of this Parliament, already signed by over 100 Members, is calling for.
This has come about because of a number of very sensible decisions taken by the Libyan authorities to dismantle the Libyan WMD programme and to compensate victims of terrorist attacks in which Libya had been implicated.
This will not happen without further action on the part of Libya to meet our concerns.
We ask President Gaddafi to release them now. &#160;&#160; , .
Rather than simply facing up to the facts, the Libyans have turned tragedy into a further tragedy and into a farce.
I very much support what the Council has said and would ask it to continue to pressurise the Libyan Government to come to its senses, to release these people and to become a normal part of the international community. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am pleased that we are having this debate, which was instigated by the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
The situation of the Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor is truly a nightmare.
The situation is Kafkaesque.
On 29 March, a court is finally to make a pronouncement on the death sentences against these six people, and this date is therefore incredibly critical.
At the same time, it is, of course, a terrible tragedy for the children who have been infected with AIDS and their families.
The EU can do more.
I am very pleased that the Commissioner supports the action plan and sees opportunities for the EU to support Libya in this way so that better care might be obtained in future for those infected with HIV.
We expect the Council and the Commission to give it priority and to follow events extremely carefully in the period up to 29 March when the court once again pronounces on the case. &#160;&#160; We support the European Union’s agreements with Libya, concerning the HIV epidemic, and we urge the immediate implementation of the action plans which sparked our solidarity with sufferers from the epidemic in the Benghazi hospital [and I thank the Commission for this package of intervention plans].
Before anything else I would like to express our concerns in connection with the situation of the Bulgarian and Palestinian health workers.
But again we must emphasise that the death penalty falls outside the values and fundamental principles of the European Union, and carrying out these death penalties would nullify the normalisation of relations between the European Union and Libya.
Because of this we call on Libya to respond to our concerns at the earliest possible date, and we ask the Council that they initiate a re-examination of the affair. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the standards of medical practice and care in Libya leave a lot to be desired.
The Libyan Government needed a scapegoat, which was found in the form of five nurses from Bulgaria and one doctor from Palestine.
While the international community stood back and watched, these six medical workers, who went to Libya in order to offer their services for the benefit of the Libyan people, were sentenced to death in 2004.
Firstly, the President of the European Parliament should request the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety to send a small delegation immediately to visit the imprisoned medical workers in Libya and to see Colonel Gaddafi and convey to him the strong wish of Parliament that these medical workers are pardoned and released immediately.
Secondly, the EU, in collaboration with the World Health Organisation, should immediately send a team of medical experts to Libya to assess the situation in relation to the HIV epidemic in the country and offer expert advice and help to deal with the problem.
Thirdly, the EU should take further drastic initiatives in order quickly to lead Libya out of the isolation imposed by the western world from 1992 to 2003.
I pronounce it as a clear statement – I am against any death penalty, be it in Libya, in the United States or in any other country of the world.
That means these people have already experienced the death of a relative, in many cases their son or daughter, they have experienced a big shock, and believe, and I say unfairly, that it is these five persons that killed their children and are experiencing this stigma.
The problem of the infection of children with the AIDS virus, particularly in a country like Libya where AIDS is even more of a taboo subject than in most of our own countries, affects both individual families and the entire population.
I believe we also need to make efforts in this area.
We have to offer our help to Libya – this is now being prepared and implemented – in its fight against AIDS, and in order to improve its healthcare system so that it can, at least, cope with this tragedy which is affecting the people concerned.
Beyond that, we also need to send a very strong and clear signal to Libya and bring a degree of pressure to bear for justice to be done and for the health workers concerned to be released.
The European Union has very clearly held out the prospect of a Mediterranean partnership to Libya.
We have put forward a number of objectives, some of which have already been achieved, such as the ending of the embargo, while others are still to happen, such as full adoption of the .
Bulgaria is about to sign the treaty of accession to the EU, and Libya is well aware that the case of the six Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor is politically highly sensitive in Europe.
What is the Council Presidency’s judgment as to the state of play of preparations for clarifying the question of Kosovo's status, and what action can be expected under the Luxembourg Council Presidency? &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Council agrees with Mr&#160;Posselt that the development of the situation in Kosovo, under the auspices of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, will be of particular importance during 2005.
The Luxembourg Presidency will give full support to the UN’s efforts and to the actions of the Secretary-General’s special representative, Mr Jensen Petersen, with a view to stabilising Kosovo.
The Council was able to review the situation in that country in the presence of Mr Jensen Petersen during its meeting on 21 February.
The Mid-2005 review will be the first opportunity to fully assess progress on effective compliance with United Nations standards.
The European Union has been closely involved in this process, with absolute respect for the role of the United Nations in determining the future status of Kosovo.
The Thessaloniki Summit clearly affirmed that the Western Balkans, including Kosovo, without prejudice to their future status, are destined to become future members of the European Union.
Consequently, the Union will have an important role in examining the status of Kosovo, in order to ensure it is fully compatible with the process of European integration.
The Council, in its conclusions of 21 February, stressed that Kosovo must not revert to the pre-1999 situation.
Its future can only be envisaged as a multi-ethnic and democratic state, guaranteeing effective protection for minorities, preserving the cultural and religious heritage of all communities and respecting the rights of refugees and displaced persons to return, thereby contributing to the stability of the region and adhering to the European Union’s values and principles.
The Council has invited the Secretary-General and High Representative, and the Commission, in close cooperation with the Presidency, and in conjunction with the United Nations and other relevant bodies, to examine the possible future contribution of the European Union to the efforts of the international community in Kosovo aimed at implementing Resolution 1244, and to assess its potential contribution to the overall assessment of the implementation of standards and to later phases of the process, and subsequently reporting back to it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, UN Resolution 1244 has absolutely nothing to say about the future status of Kosovo.
This resolution is already five years old.
Now that the Americans have announced their intention of resolving the status issue this year, the question arises as to whether the EU wants to take an independent initiative on this or passively await what others will come up with.
Unemployment in Kosovo is running at 70%, and people will invest in the place only as and when its long-term future is sorted out.
The European Union is also in contact with all partners with an interest in seeing a political solution to the Kosovo situation.
We remain in contact with our partners, but I believe that a risky and precipitate solution that failed to take sufficient account of a certain number of problems still unresolved in that country, would ultimately run the risk of threatening the still very fragile stability in Kosovo. &#160;&#160; Would the President-in-Office agree with me that the decision by the now ex-Prime Minister of Kosovo, Mr Ramush Haradinaj, to resign and to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia is a welcome sign of the growing political maturity in the country.
If Kosovo can overcome this problem in the next day or two, I think that will augur well for a final political solution to the Kosovan crisis and allow the UN administration to withdraw.
It will also have the effect of giving the Albanian inhabitants of Kosovo the right message, namely that the process is normal and that it is now a time for cool heads.
There can be no political solution for Kosovo without the protection of minorities and without all refugees having the right to return home.
With regard to the issue of sovereignty, I believe that it is on this issue that a political solution has to be found, although without predicting what such a solution will be.
On this issue, the common approach of the United States and the European Union, reaffirmed at the meeting of Heads of State or Government with the US President on 22 February in Brussels, are a source of satisfaction.
The EU and USA share the same position on the Middle East peace process and on the need to implement United Nations Security Council Resolution 1559 in its entirety.
The Council has called upon the Lebanese authorities to cooperate fully to that end with the investigating teams, in particular the United Nations representatives.
The Council has also called upon all countries in the region to fulfil their international obligations, particularly in combating terrorism.
The United Nations Secretary-General has announced that, in the next few weeks, he will be presenting a report on implementation of the resolution, on the basis of which the Security Council will take a decision on future steps.
As I have just explained, the agreed approach of the European Union and United States favours the United Nations and a UN resolution.
With regard to the regularisation process implemented by the Spanish Government and to which the question refers, the Council has not debated it formally and is not therefore in a position to respond.
In more general terms, the Council invites the honourable Member to refer to developments in the Hague Programme, the multiannual programme adopted by the European Council at its meeting on 4 and 5 November 2004.
By adopting that programme, the European Council, on the issue we are discussing here, based its conclusions in particular on the idea that the informal economy and unofficial employment may provide a stimulus to clandestine immigration and give rise to exploitation.
The examination progress which has begun should provide a basis for the Commission to establish, at the end of 2005, a programme for legal immigration. &#160;&#160; – Whether or not this has been formally discussed, the fact remains that Otto Schily and Rita Verdonk have raised an objection.
I think the best solution is for there to be less illegal immigration and less undeclared labour. &#160;&#160; (We must not forget that the last Spanish Government undeniably made some very serious mistakes which resulted in a million illegal immigrants in Spain.
All I can say is that, indeed, all countries with particularly exposed borders must make every effort to control those borders, in order to limit illegal immigration and combat this phenomenon effectively.
They will pay particular attention to the expected developments in this field: the continuing internationalisation of football; troublemakers developing counter-strategies to deal with measures taken to combat hooliganism; solutions aimed at reducing, or even eliminating, internal border controls, in connection with the growth of the EU; the emergence of forms of extremism in violence surrounding sporting events; the progressive and continuing commercialisation of football; and the gathering of hooligans in groups that act as a unit rather than as individuals. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, I discovered this report and was keen that during your presidency you put further pressure on UEFA in particular and, if necessary, FIFA, to move us towards a position where football is truly a family sport.
It seems to me that racism and hooliganism in football are combining.
Those involved in such expressions of racism need to know that they will be punished, but also that they are putting at risk the continuation of sporting events.
The conflict has caused immense human suffering, massive displacement of populations, a breakdown of social and economic structures and gross human rights violations.
It has on several occasions condemned the serious violations of human rights and atrocities committed against the civilian population, especially by the Lord's Resistance Army.
The conflict in northern Uganda is one of the main points in the political dialogue between the European Union and the Ugandan Government.
A significant proportion of the humanitarian aid that the EU provides to Uganda is intended to help the most vulnerable population groups in that part of the country.
It is also prepared to investigate what means it could use to increase the pressure on the two parties, in order to reach a lasting solution to this conflict in Uganda. &#160;&#160; I thank the President for this response and should like, at the same time, to give expression to a certain level of astonishment about the fact that there is talk of a war between two factions.
I wonder whether it would not be opportune to include in the political dialogue with Sudan, and not only in the political dialogue with Uganda, the issue of the Lord's Resistance Army and the massive scale on which human rights are being violated.
The change in the administration may seem to have happened at lightning speed, but in reality the tone began to change several months back.
With regard to the crucial issues currently occupying the international scene, we can see a very broad convergence of opinions between the United States and the EU.
The United States is in close contact with the European Union to find a peaceful solution to these problems.
Thus, without wishing to paint an idyllic picture of our relations they are a long way from that and without ignoring the subjects on which it will be the EU's duty to return to the attack, it nevertheless seems possible to take the view that this summit made it possible to demonstrate more effectively the important points of convergence that are providing a structure for transatlantic dialogue. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your reply.
There is continuous contact on all subjects, at all levels, not only between the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, but also between the Ministers for Justice, focussing on the fight against crime and terrorism.
There cannot be a political solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict without the participation of the European Union and the United States.
The file has not been submitted to the Council itself.
The Council invites the honourable Member to put this question directly to the Commission. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your answer is very diplomatic, I have to say.
We all know that this agreement exists; we know that there are already funds in a Luxembourg account and we know that these funds have to be shared out.
We know that the budgetary authority is made up of two branches, namely the Council and Parliament.
Indeed, no provision in Title&#160;VI of the Treaty on European Union requires the Member States to provide the Council with such data. &#160;&#160; I hope that the Council is very shocked by its own reply.
You are well aware that there is coordination between the services, amongst other things for combating terrorism and organised crime, against which the networks are also joined.
The Council is not in the habit of commenting on public statements made by its members.
I hope that my statement has also been sufficiently transparent.
My two other questions do not relate to the legal position, of which I am well aware, but to the steps you intend to take in response to accusations that you are a secret society.
The Council would also draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that it is the Commission's responsibility to ensure that Council Regulation No&#160;1260/99 of 21&#160;June&#160;1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, as amended by the Council on 24&#160;January&#160;2005 to extend the duration of the Peace programme, is properly implemented, in view of the fact that responsibility for managing these funds is split between the European Commission and the governments of the Member States, on the basis of a close partnership. &#160;&#160; Surely it is a matter of concern to the Council when two Member States combine to exclude an EU monitoring body from their indigenous freedom of information legislation and so exempt it from provisions on providing the public with information that is available from all internal governmental bodies in those states.
In the same vein, it would remind the honourable Member that it recognises and shares his desire for the establishment of cooperation in civil protection in the Mediterranean, in particular by the possible creation of an early warning system in the Mediterranean as part of the Barcelona process.
In addition, the Council welcomes the fact that this issue is to be raised during the first session of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly from 12 to 15&#160;March&#160;2005 in Cairo.
The Luxembourg Presidency attaches considerable importance to this initiative, which it launched and in which it has participated. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your answer, which is satisfactory.
Unfortunately, disasters always surprise us and the expected needs are not always those that really need to be met.
At its meeting in Brussels on 16 and 17&#160;December&#160;2004, the European Council reaffirmed its commitment to the full implementation of the Thessaloniki agenda, which underlines that the future of the countries of the Balkans is within the European Union.
The European Council restated, in particular, that in this process regional cooperation would remain an essential element of EU policy.
With regard to the financial aspects of the accession of a candidate State, it also stated that these aspects must be allowed for in the applicable Financial Framework.
Hence, accession negotiations yet to be opened with candidates whose accession could have substantial financial consequences can only be concluded after the establishment of the Financial Framework for the period from 2014 together with possible consequential financial reforms. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks, Mr&#160;President.
My question related to three other countries.
Although my party and I voted in favour of Turkey’s entry into the European Union, we believe it would be absurd for Turkey to enter into the EU before other countries that are clearly European.
That is why I also believe that cooperation with the countries in question should involve the drafting of a more accurate timetable for their integration into European structures, covering the next dozen or so years.
The path will then be politically open, in other words they will actually become candidates. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said yourself that Croatia should seek to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal.
The Prodi Commission project – developed particularly by Commissioner Busquin but even prior to that by the Italian commissioner, Professor Ruberti – to create the European Research Area by means of a number of measures was confirmed at Lisbon.
That is a fundamental step if Europe is to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
We are all aware of the current gap between Europe and its major competitors in this field, that is, the United States and Japan.
The percentage of GDP devoted to research spending is 3.12% in Japan, 2.76% in the United States, 1.99% in the EU of 15 and 1.93% in the EU of 25.
The importance of the European Research Area is underlined by the new powers that the Constitutional Treaty attributes to the Union in this field, and we therefore call on the Commission to act in line with the new legal framework.
The seventh Framework Programme presents yet another novelty, which is to set up the European Research Council.
I am also speaking on this subject on behalf of our fellow Member Erika Mann, who could not be present at this debate.
It is essential to foster mobility among researchers and to make that a widespread practice at all career stages.
Still on the subject of human resources, I should like to point to the need to promote women’s access to the research sector, as well as their careers.
The future of research and of Europe also depends on our ability to make science more attractive to young people.
Another chapter in the report concerns technology transfer.
The seventh Framework Programme should devote special attention to technology transfer, thus coordinating Europe’s research policy with its industrial policy.
At the same time, funding needs to be increased for instruments aimed specifically at small and medium-sized enterprises, which also require the streamlining of project selection criteria and of bureaucracy in general, which has often been an obstacle preventing SMEs from taking part in research programmes.
On this last point, I believe the recommendations included in the Marimon and Ormala reports should be adopted, and not only in relation to SMEs.
We must move on from a model of diffuse provision of aid – what in Italy is called ‘’ – to a model that prioritises spending on investments that have a multiplying effect, that is, an effect of reinforcing growth.
Let me thank Mrs Locatelli, the rapporteur, in particular, and all the committee members for the fruitful and intense cooperation demonstrated during this first month of our work together.
I would also like to thank everyone present at this late hour for their real interest in and commitment to future European research policy.
The Commission attaches a great deal of importance to the adoption of the Locatelli report.
It constitutes the European Parliament’s formal position on our June communication and, what is more, will pave the way for preparing the Commission’s proposal on the new framework programme to be adopted on 6 April 2005.
Before highlighting what I consider to be the key elements of the Locatelli report, I would like to share with you some thoughts about the general context of European research and our plans for the Seventh Framework Programme.
We want and need to relaunch the Lisbon Strategy.
The intensive discussion this morning on the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy has allowed us to take the measure of the challenges ahead.
Europe cannot compete on the basis of cheap labour or low social standards.
Knowledge, in the broader sense, is our strongest factor of competitiveness in the global, fiercely competitive market place.
In Europe, we need to become much better at producing knowledge through research, diffusing knowledge through education, and using and applying knowledge through innovation.
The Commission is already working hard to develop such framework conditions for knowledge and innovation.
For example, we will come forward later this year with a revision of the state aid regime, work on fiscal incentives for research and development and innovation, guidelines on cooperation between industry and universities, re-evaluation of the profession of European researchers, and other actions.
Building the knowledge society is thus probably the best and maybe the only way to sustain the European model of society, without having to make a trade-off between economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection.
It is in this same Lisbon context that I will present our proposals for the Seventh Framework Programme.
As some of you rightly stated during our debate on the oral question on the research budget in Strasbourg two weeks ago, FP7 needs to be the framework programme for the Lisbon Strategy.
I hope that you will all appreciate this new approach.
There will be a strong focus on ideas, with actions concerning frontier research in the context of the European Research Council.
The ‘capacities’ part will deal with infrastructures, SMEs, regions, the research potential of all Member States, as well as science, society and international cooperation.
As regards the management of the funds, which are to double, I am fully aware of the challenges ahead.
But with their simplification and rationalisation on the one hand, and modernised management as well as externalisation of some of the activities – such as the European Research Council, SMEs and the mobility actions – on the other, we are prepared to rise to this challenge.
Turning to the Locatelli report itself, a report that will make a significant contribution to the success of the forthcoming framework programme, allow me, firstly, to express my sincere gratitude for all the support you have given until now for the proposed doubling of funds for FP7.
This is fully in line with the Commission’s proposal for the next financial perspective and firmly defends the proposal to set the EU budget above 1% of GDP.
Let me make a personal comment here.
Together we have a real chance to start changing the structure of the European budget in favour of more growth- and competitiveness-orientated actions.
We should not miss this opportunity to prove that we are ready to invest in the future rather than look to the past.
Second, you rightly ask for simpler and clearer administrative procedures in order to improve efficiency and reduce the costs for participants, in particular SMEs and small actors.
I have underlined the importance of simplification on several occasions, starting with the hearing last autumn, and I did not forget the message I was given two weeks ago in this plenary.
Let me underline two fundamental principles that I intend to strive for vigorously: autonomy and scientific excellence.
What is more, the ERC needs to support at European level research in all scientific fields, from specific industry-driven research to social and human sciences.
The EU needs high-level researchers in all research fields in order to grow and compete with the USA, Japan and other strong parties.
Let me assure you that we are examining all possible options, including those based on a more mid-term approach, and will inform you of our decision in due course.
As you know, this will be an important part of the forthcoming proposal for the framework programme.
Finally, the report puts great emphasis on the regional dimension, by underlining the need for the participation of regions in order to increase investment in research and innovation.
In the context of the most ambitious objective, which is to provide the scientific community, industry and European society in general with the tools needed to strengthen and improve our research capacity, we need above all to use the funds better, with the aim of creating real centres of excellence that can attract our researchers, who are all too often forced to emigrate abroad.
Consolidating the European Research Area is important not only for our researchers and for their mobility, but also to attract investment, both public and private, European and non-European.
The European Research Area must be the catalyst for private investment.
In addition, great emphasis has been placed on small and medium-sized enterprises, precisely because of the particular industrial structure of our economy, which is predominantly characterised by an industrial fabric made up of productive areas that are unable to develop independent research projects.
It therefore becomes essential to strengthen the dialogue that SMEs or associations of SMEs have with our universities and with the many European centres of excellence.
Such a dialogue should lead to a more effective and fruitful transfer of technology.
The proposal to set up a European Research Council must be seen in this context.
I support its aims, which include guiding basic research and guaranteeing not only its suitability but also its quality.
If Europe does not make this choice, it runs the risk of being regarded as a weary, lumbering colossus, a continent that gets bogged down in talk and all too often bends its strategies to the individual interests of its Member States.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists strongly supports the report and appreciates the work that has been done so well.
We do not have natural resources here in Europe: our natural resources are in our heads.
Accordingly, it is hardly appropriate to finance very small individual projects in the field of basic research.
In the countries that are the Union’s major competitors, such as the United States of America and Japan, the share of public funding in these sectors is as much as 80%.
We therefore have to be ready, if necessary, to use public funds to subsidise projects which may only be of potential benefit in the long term.
Secondly, research and development must be made to benefit the SME sector.
There are 19 million SMEs and we have 16 million unemployed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should particularly like to thank Commissioner Potočnik for his words, which I feel are extremely important.
This document highlights three key elements in the forthcoming Framework Programme for research, which are the European Research Council, the new priority thematic areas for research and the technological platforms.
Parliament thus recognises that basic research has an importance that transcends the Member States and requires a response at EU level, within the rationale of the Lisbon Strategy.
These are strong, decisive new factors that will give European companies fresh impetus, supporting new sectors and innovation while also ensuring that conventional productive activities have a competitive edge.
I believe that in the future – and this is my last point – research will be very important, if that science is open and accessible to the general public and the scientific community. &#160;&#160; . –Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has drafted a committee-initiative report on European research policy.
The European Parliament is prepared to buy the results of scientific research in these areas.
The Commission’s proposal for additional funds under the Seventh Framework Programme is justified.
Joint research projects can be promoted in the best way if they lead to results for which the English would use the word ‘serendipity’.
The best example of a benefit jointly achieved through a jointly financed project is fusion energy research under the ITER project.
The principle of subsidiarity is not something merely to be referred to in formal contexts, but rather should direct all our activities.
For them, the principle of subsidiarity is not a guiding principle but rather an obstacle in their way.
These are all things that the Member States themselves are better equipped to deal with.
If other countries want to set aside the same amount, they only have to do so.
The research funds will not increase as a result of the Member States sending it via EU authorities.
Competition is important not just between enterprises, but also between institutions.
Competition between countries in various areas is one of the most important explanations for the great progress made by the Western world in recent centuries.
They fall into five categories, these being basic research, free movement of research staff within the EU, large-scale research in areas such as nuclear energy and space technology, infrastructure for research networks and common security issues for the EU.
The EU’s research policy should be limited to areas such as these, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity that is fêted in banquet speeches and draft constitutions.
EU research policy is on the wrong track. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, neither investment in science and research nor the Lisbon Strategy as a whole are goals in themselves.
The announcement will need to be backed up by appropriate funding for science and research, which means that no cuts should be made to the EU budget.
Fourthly, more extensive use should be made of private sector funding, both for applied and basic scientific research and for research in the humanities, as mentioned by the Commissioner.
Mrs&#160;Locatelli said that life would be made easier for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The problems of the European Union’s competitiveness in relation to the new Asian giants, the drain of our best brains to horizons richer in opportunities, the difficulty in meeting the Lisbon targets in terms of employment, development and innovation, and the issues of energy supply and health – these are the subjects that fill our time in Parliament and on which the future of our economy and our social system depends.
These topics are closely linked to each other, and their common denominator is the development of scientific and technological research.
Research actually means knowledge, employment and economic development, as well as a better quality of life.
Research, however, is not just a matter of funds, instruments and infrastructure.
I am not alluding to quality, since our universities and our graduates are already the best in the world, but I am referring to jobs: opportunities to do research and to earn money.
Paradoxically, while science and technology play an ever more decisive role in today’s global economy, young people are avoiding science subjects because of the limited job opportunities.
As a result, many graduates are forced to leave Europe or to spend years living on grants that are totally inadequate for the current cost of living, while they wait for a stroke of luck.
In recent years the number of young Europeans who choose to carry on studying science subjects has declined.
European universities do not have enough staff in their science departments to replace lecturers reaching the end of their careers, and fewer and fewer science and technology graduates find work as researchers compared with their main competitors in Europe.
We must at all costs reverse this trend, bring our young people into contact with science from an early age, stimulate their curiosity and above all enable not just the fortunate few but all those who deserve it to use their knowledge to serve Europe, by offering them work, careers and decent salaries in exchange.
If we want a future based on knowledge, we have to invest in our young people in order to train them and, above all, not to lose them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my love of research is the only reason why I am present at this evening’s late-night sitting, as I must admit that I would rather have watched Bayern Munich play Arsenal in the Champions League.
A unanimous vote by this House tomorrow in favour of this report will both send out a signal and provide our Research Commissioner with the backing he needs.
The Commissioner frequently refers to a ‘moment of truth’, and I believe that he is right to do so.
Public funding is a good thing, but we must also encourage private industry and the private sector to invest heavily in research and development, and to make money available for this purpose.
I was delighted to hear you say earlier this evening that you are planning to issue guidelines particularly aimed at improving cooperation between research and industry in this respect.
It is pointless to increase funding unless this money is then spent on research in a truly efficient manner.
Programmes must be made simpler, more streamlined and less bureaucratic, and I would call on the Commission and on Parliament to do their homework on this matter.
We must ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are also successfully involved in European research.
If we want to meet the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the Barcelona Summit and to reflect the recommendations made in the Kok Report, the Seventh Framework Programme must include a clear and proportionate increase in resources within the scope of the new financial perspectives.
In order to achieve these objectives and create a European Research Area we also need good coordination both at Member State and Union level to ensure that funding and activities are complementary and generate a multiplier effect.
If we are to comply with the Lisbon Strategy, we also need to support excellent basic research as the driving force for technological development, growth and competitiveness.
This entails making Europe more attractive to top researchers, from young and women researchers to highly-qualified scientists currently working abroad, and encouraging SME participation in every single thematic priority, in transnational collaborations, and in technology programmes through proportionate project funding and instruments tailored to their needs.
For example, research priorities, which we believe should be extended to include other new priorities with major economic potential for the European Union, such as scientific research. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this shows us that science and research last in the long run.
Mr President, the resolution that we have adopted adds European value to both research policy and economic development.
The entire resolution on the Lisbon Strategy that has been adopted by Parliament today with a very large majority – and which we in the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe have put a lot of work into – is based on the knowledge that sustainable development is based not just on economic growth, but also on social cohesion and environmental considerations.
I am pleased that this work is just as balanced as the Lisbon resolution adopted, and I look forward to the framework programme. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is difficult to overstate the importance of this debate in the current hand-wringing over the Lisbon Agenda.
The reality is that if we do not invest in research and, more importantly, involve the business community in that research process, we will not upscale our economies.
The pan-Union coordination adds a clear value.
I support the broad thrust of this report and would add my words of congratulation to the rapporteur, with the rest of the House.
I have some reservations about the details and I hope that our amendments will strengthen the report tomorrow.
I should therefore like to praise the efforts of all those involved, and especially Mrs&#160;Locatelli, as she has done a very good job of drafting her report, and this is why I intend to vote in favour of it during tomorrow’s vote.
The ITER programme should also provide such backing for the energy industry, as mentioned by my colleague.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although I can see that scientific research is both beneficial and necessary, it remains to be seen whether the approach adopted in the Locatelli report is the most efficient way to achieve a more innovative Europe.
Secondly, the Commission communication on research policy guidelines lacks, to my mind, a strategic statement about research that is punishable in the Member States.
Yet I am afraid that this report will share the fate of the Lisbon Strategy, which failed to distinguish between economic and social goals.
We are all aware that the economy is flagging and that unemployment is on the rise.
Yet scientific goals are unfortunately conflated with ideological goals in this report.
Furthermore, I must say that I was surprised to see that research on animals was the only area of scientific research mentioned in any detail.
I am a great lover of animals, but this report is not the right place to deal with this issue to the exclusion of all others.
Many thanks, Mr&#160;President. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid growth experienced by Asian countries and the United States has presented Europe with a major economic challenge.
The report sets out the key areas of research for the EU as a whole.
In view of the huge differences in the research potential of the various Member States and regions, particular attention should be paid to poor countries and regions, which lack the necessary resources but which have enormous human potential, in order to ensure cohesion between Member States and harmonised development.
Special attention should therefore be paid to research policy in the countries and regions in question, in order to prevent the gap in intellectual ability and development opportunities widening instead of narrowing.
The guidelines for EU research policy included in the report’s motion for a resolution highlight the key areas for the development of research.
This is entirely correct, but the development of science and technology throughout the EU should not be neglected.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs&#160;Locatelli, I should like to thank you for your excellent work, and I should also like to thank our shadow rapporteur, Mr&#160;Brunetta.
We are all aware that we face a huge challenge in achieving the Lisbon goals.
Our aim is to spend 3% of GDP on research, of which two thirds should come from the private sector.
Even more importantly, two thirds of all employees work for small and medium-sized enterprises, or in other words for companies with fewer than 250 employees.
I believe that it is also necessary to determine at long last where the responsibility lies for efficiency and evaluation in the field of academic research.
We need top-quality automated processes and better instruments to make research findings more widely available. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should first of all like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Locatelli, who has tabled an excellent and interesting report.
Research in the Seventh Framework Programme is important to us, certainly in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
I should like to make three points.
I fully share Mr&#160;Hammerstein Mintz’s view that the public research agenda must be guided by social problems.
Certainly for small businesses and small institutions, it is a well-nigh impossible task to complete the paperwork and answer the questions.
We have already gathered experience in the area of clinical tests for developmental diseases.
Our future Constitution provides for the development of the common foreign and security policy, which means that we will need to carry out research in this field, some of which will be secret.
We must therefore be capable of copying the Americans by adopting a ‘black box’ approach to individual projects.
This will give rise to a research dialogue between equals that would be appropriate in the case of a number of other countries, as well as the USA. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
Excellence should not be the only criterion used when determining funding priorities, and additional criteria should be considered in order to make it possible for research centres in the new Member States to be integrated.
These centres have had limited opportunities to implement European research programmes in the past.
Secondly, we are counting on smaller projects being approved, as our research centres are also smaller.
The new Member States are inexperienced in dealing with complicated procedures, and they find them a major burden.
We are hoping that clear and transparent rules will be put in place to govern investment in research infrastructures in the new Member States.
Fifthly and finally, integration also means a common market and full freedom of movement for persons and services.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, who could possibly disagree that the tool for promoting growth and competitiveness in Europe is a sustainable research and development policy?
Europe has already lost its pole position to Japan and America.
The policy of investment in research and development is not a matter of choice.
The recent catastrophic tsunami in South-East Asia should have convinced even the most incredulous among us that there is an immediate and urgent need to fortify our continent against this sort of catastrophic natural disaster.
I believe that it is very important for the safety and welfare of European citizens for strong momentum to be given to these areas of research, especially as they appear to be converging continuously and increasingly into a risk and crisis management model.
An amendment to this effect has been tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats; I refer to Amendment 8.
In fact, both the Commission communication on the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy and the resolution we adopted today emphasise the importance of eco-innovation to sustainable development in Europe.
This means that, in the revised Lisbon Strategy, environmental technologies and high environmental standards will hold an important position.
Although the Commission may one day provide 10% of funding and the Member States 90%, this ratio is unlikely to change substantially.
It follows that European added value must be our main concern when selecting our priorities, and I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 7 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
We must therefore provide greater support for such cooperation. &#160;&#160; The 21st century will be the century of science, research, and technical development.
The document before us starts from the recognition of that, and sees correctly that the EU needs the utmost effort in this field, so that it can stand its ground against ever fiercer competition.
We must stimulate and support research and development in the new and the old Member States, each in line with their own and different situations.
Cooperation is the principal one: continuity in this area, a thematic approach but one that is based much more on industrial needs than in the past.
These are definitely not easy questions that can be addressed in a limited amount of time, but I agree that we need to address them in an open and tolerant way.
They are extremely important because the European Union has a different structure to some of our competitors.
As a proportion we have more of them, and they should and could participate more in research than they do today.
Regarding enlargement and capacities, I would make two comments.
One is that enlargement happened first in the areas of science and research, as scientists from the new Member States were able to participate earlier in these areas than in any others.
On the other hand, it is more difficult to have full integration in these areas than, for example, in the political field, where people can sit at a table and discuss vexing questions.
We all have high expectations, and rightly so, because the future of the European Union also depends greatly on the future development of the scientific and research field. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on oral questions on the transfer of passenger data: – oral question (B6-0014/2005) by Baroness Ludford and others; – oral question (B6-0154/2005) by Mrs Buitenweg; – oral question (B6-0156/2005) by Mrs Klamt, Mrs&#160;Cederschiöld and Mr Coelho; oral question (B6-0160/2005) by Mr Catania and Mrs&#160;Kaufmann; and on data retention and data protection: – oral question (B6-0017/2005) by Mr Alvaro, Mrs&#160;Roure and Mr Kreissl-Dörfler; – oral question (B6-0020/2005) by Mrs Buitenweg; – oral question (B6-0155/2005) by Mrs Klamt and others; – oral question (B6-0159/2005) by Mr Catania and Mrs&#160;Kaufmann. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is quite strange that this debate concerns the Internet and the retention of data on the Internet, and yet it is not being broadcast as normal on Parliament’s website.
I should like to complain about that. &#160;&#160; Mrs Mastenbroek, late-night sittings have never been broadcast over the Internet in the past, as resources are limited in this respect.
If we are to discuss anything, it should therefore be whether this rule should be changed on a permanent basis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank Commissioner Frattini for attending this debate tonight, which is the first on data protection during this parliamentary term, on the initiative of my own Group, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
I have been appointed rapporteur on the initiative by four Member States relating to data retention.
That is why some months ago we tabled two oral questions on the issue of PNR and the issue of data retention, with a view to having a public debate on two issues that raise serious concerns from the point of view of fundamental human rights, and to get more information from the Commission on these issues.
Commissioner Frattini, we were pleased to hear during the EP hearings of candidate Commissioners that you attach a great deal of importance to defending fundamental rights, and I know that you are personally committed to defending citizens’ privacy.
On the issue of data retention, we know the Commission has raised the scrutiny reservation on the correctness of the legal basis of the four Member States’ proposal.
The Commission believes that a third pillar basis is not correct, and that a first pillar basis would be the right one.
That is why we would ask the Commission whether it supports the four Member States’ initiative not only in terms of the legal basis but also in terms of the content.
The Commission 2005 working programme schedules for this month the adoption by the Commission of a directive on the retention of data for law enforcement purposes.
Thirdly, we would like an update on the long-overdue third pillar data protection instrument that Commissioner Frattini personally promised would be brought forward.
Let me underline that the Article 29 Working Party has already drafted a proposal for harmonised data protection principles for the third pillar.
We would be honoured to hear your remarks on this issue.
On the PNR issue, Parliament has a keen interest and a right to have an update on the current action before the Court of Justice, with Parliament objecting to the signing of the international agreement of 28 May 2004 that makes the transfer of air passenger data to the US possible.
With a view to the protection of the privacy of European air passengers, could the Commission inform Parliament of the volume of passenger data which the authorities have access to and whether there is an effective filtering of sensitive data.
The Commission has published a communication on a global EU approach on PNR.
Finally, why has Parliament never been informed about the negotiations on PNR at an ICAO level?
The current practice is not democratic, transparent or justifiable.
On the other hand, it is worth restating that last year, in April&#160;2004, the European Parliament rejected the agreement negotiated between the Council, the Commission and the United States and referred the matter to the Court of Justice.
I would remind you that the US authorities cannot guarantee the level of data protection that we require in Europe and that we also ask of other third countries such as Australia and Canada.
In particular, we have no way of knowing who has access to these data.
The issue should be settled with respect for fundamental rights and in line with the principles defined by the European Parliament.
An initiative has been proposed by France, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden regarding a draft framework decision on data retention, and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs is also currently working on it.
Today, we would like to know what exactly happens with our citizens’ data.
The Americans’ interest in the European public’s personal data cannot be seen in isolation from their efforts to set up a Global Computer Surveillance System.
On 11 March 2004, the Commission response indicated its willingness, under certain conditions, to help develop this CAPPS II system and said that at the present time, the American authorities are not yet carrying out tests with our passenger data.
I should like to have precise answers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that Mr Frattini has read our questions and will certainly also answer them this evening.
It seems to me entirely unreasonable and illogical to take decisions before such an assessment has been carried out while, at the same time, discussing competitiveness and Lisbon.
Moreover, it has not been demonstrated that this approach is necessary, something that is essential before any decisions can be taken.
I hope and believe that Mr Frattini realises that it is a good idea – even necessary – to ensure that the protection of people’s privacy on a third pillar basis is at least as good as the same protection based on the first pillar.
I share my fellow MEPs’ viewpoint that it would be interesting to hear how you intend to deal with this matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as regards the issue of the transfer of passenger data, I would like to add my voice to the questions raised and the criticism made by my fellow MEPs in the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
For my part, I shall concentrate, in my comments, on the issue of the storage of personal data.
The proposal currently before the Council entails a very clear conflict between personal integrity and respect for privacy, on the one hand, and society’s need for surveillance, on the other.
This is a key issue concerning our credibility, which the Commission must address.
It would also be interesting to hear the Commission comment on the Article 29 Group’s criticism in this area.
The Commission and the Council must therefore also be prepared to debate this legislation in good time.
Far too often we have discussed these issues – on many occasions without getting answers – only to find that it is then too late. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am sure that no one in this House would hesitate to agree that data protection is a key task.
It is extremely difficult to weigh up data protection against opportunities to fight crime, and I am genuinely open and ready to discuss this matter.
With regard to this draft report, however, I must say that no definite answer has yet been provided to a question that was asked quite clearly several months ago, namely whether there is actually any need for this report.
If these measures are necessary, then we can discuss them.
Yet if they are unnecessary, which I currently believe to be the case, then we must do everything in our power to stop them.
What worries me is that this process will go on and on, and that tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, or at some other point in the future, we will be presented with a proposal that we will carry on debating, and that there will no longer be any way to escape the process, even though every Member of this House believes it to be misguided.
Furthermore, given that all groups in the House are in agreement and have expressed their concerns on this matter, I would expect the Commission to explain to the House whether – and, if so, when – it intends to present a proposal and what the substance of this proposal will be.
From a legal point of view, the initiative of France, Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom on data retention currently under discussion was tabled under Title 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
However, the Commission is of the opinion that the provisions of the draft instrument that deal with the harmonisation of obligations on electronic communication providers to retain data related to the provision of electronic communication services fall under the European Community Treaty, notably in view of the existing provisions of Community law on the subject.
As a consequence, the Commission will present an alternative proposal on data retention based on Article 95 of the European Community Treaty by early spring 2005.
Personally, I hope that the four Member States in question will withdraw their proposal.
To that end, the Commission has started consultations with experts representing the relevant ministries and data protection control authorities of the Member States and the Schengen States.
As regards the transfer of passenger data to the United States joint review, a number of questions concerning the transfer of passenger data – the PNR issue – are related to the implementation of undertakings by the US Customs and Border Protection agency.
This joint review will take place in the first half of this year, i.e.
It is my intention to inform this Parliament of the outcome of this joint review and any important developments in this file.
I am pleased to tell you that, in spite of differences of opinion on the US PNR package, there is excellent cooperation on the implementation of this package between the Article 29 Working Party and the Commission.
As regards passenger information, as an example of that excellent cooperation between the Article 29 Working Party and the Commission, the Working Party has issued a passenger information notice, which airlines and travel agents use in order to inform airline passengers of the fact that personal data are transferred to the US Customs and Border Protection agency for the purpose of preventing and combating terrorism and other serious crimes.
As regards data transfers to third countries, according to information we received from the United States, no passenger data have been transferred so far to third countries.
No doubt this issue will be looked into during the joint review exercise that will take place very soon.
As regards ‘Secure Flight’ and CAPPS II, you will be aware that the US Transportation Security Administration has dropped its controversial computer-assisted passenger pre-screening system – also known as CAPPS II – in favour of a new programme called ‘Secure Flight’.
As regards the EU’s global plan for PNR policy, the Commission issued a communication in December 2003 on the EU’s global approach on passenger data, advocating a comprehensive and balanced approach.
The Commission indicated in the communication that it will pursue its task with other third countries requesting passengers’ data.
The Commission has entered into talks with Canada and Australia.
Concerning Canada, we will soon seek Parliament’s opinion on a draft Commission document and an accompanying international agreement.
In both cases the Article 29 Working Party has issued a positive opinion.
As you can see, the Commission’s strategy as outlined in the communication of December 2003 is being put into practice.
Finally, as regards the International Civil Aviation Organization, that organisation established the passenger name record access study group in June 2004, following an initiative by several states within that organisation.
The European Commission and several EU Member States are participating actively in the work of the study group.
I will keep you well informed about further developments in that programme. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Frattini, I welcome your response on data protection and in relation to the announcement of the Commission’s initiative.
As you know, Mr Frattini, the need for cooperation at Community level and at Transatlantic level is not the issue here.
What we are highlighting is the need to maintain a balance between the citizens’ security, freedom and rights and we wish to emphasise our view that data transfer can take place only if the third country in question is able to guarantee adequate levels of protection.
We would advocate a ‘push’ system accompanied by the appropriate filters and would like to see the necessary guarantees with regard to the accuracy, security and supervision of data.
Furthermore, the principle of reciprocity must always underpin any exchange of information with the US authorities or those of any other third country.
We welcome the comments that you made on the involvement of Article 29 and on your readiness to continue to give Parliament all of the information on this dossier.
My first question relates to costs, as long-term data retention is a major financial burden, in particular for small telecommunications firms.
It is quite clear that longer retention periods will not mean increased security for citizens.
Data protection experts, and even law enforcement agencies such as the Federal Criminal Police Office in Germany, have expressed doubt as to whether there is any need for the measures outlined in the Council decision.
Data protection is another extremely important issue as regards the transfer of data to third parties.
No one is opposed to fighting international terrorism or organised crime, but we have absolutely no need for unnecessary monitoring.
I would like to be able to look those members of the Dutch public who are rather sceptical about it straight in the eye and tell them that this Constitution, those constitutional rights and the protection of personal data are really serious and not simply lip service.
I should like to hear what this means in institutional terms.
As for the transfer of passenger data, the PNR issue, concerning which there was a report on which my predecessor Mrs Boogerd-Quaak worked very hard, will the Joint Review, which you mentioned a moment ago, also state how many attacks have been pre-empted and how many criminals have been arrested?
Secondly, you stated that information is already being handed out to the passengers, but what about the duty to ask for explicit permission before their data can be transferred?
I should like to inform the Commissioner that this presents us with a major problem in terms of communication with the public.
The procedure is extremely vague.
In the first pillar, a ban on data retention has been agreed upon before and it is abundantly clear that some governments have tabled this proposal only because they cannot get it past their own parliaments.
That is how the Council takes advantage of the democratic hole in the European Union, because as you know, this House only has an advisory role in this respect.
As for content, it is for this House to decide whether or not the final proposal is proportionate.
That is, in all honesty, a little too fast for my liking.
I would first like to see proof for such a proposal.
In other words, why is it necessary?
I think it is an important fight, and also think it is a disgrace that the European Council should put this House in a position where we have to stand on the brakes where proposals intended to fight terrorism are concerned.
I would like to discuss what we should coordinate at European level and I would like to do this in a democratic manner. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to all the Members who have spoken.
The first thought is that the Commission is trying to reconcile two great European values, which are the people’s right to security and the people’s right to have their freedoms and fundamental rights safeguarded.
I do not think these two fundamental rights are contradictory.
These are guidelines that will enable the Commission, by the end of the year, to submit a proposal under the third pillar laying down a new generation of guarantees.
This principle is contained in the actions and initiatives that the Commission is developing.
The last topic is the ‘push’ system.
We are working to convince as many non-EU countries as possible to adopt this system, which I am certain is the best.
You probably know that, during our talks, Canada agreed to start off with the push system, and I cherish a certain hope that the United States too, given a little persuasion, will come round to believing that it is the best system. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in April. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0049/2005) by Mrs Margrete Auken, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on financing Natura 2000. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first and foremost, my thanks to all the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for their constructive cooperation.
After more careful study, however, I can clearly see that the tree is not only decorated but also maintains a consistent theme.
The European Environment Agency in Copenhagen has, time after time, drawn attention to the alarming situation, and we need to reverse the trend.
On the contrary, the funds often work against the countryside.
Naturally, we can call for more money in the budget for this purpose, but it is more relevant and realistic to obtain a considerable part of the money from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, where the really large amounts of EU funding are committed.
We must not forget, however, that a substantial part of the amount must come from the Member States.
It is their commitment, and I believe it is important that we emphasise that the Member States have an obligation themselves and that this is not something to be funded solely by the EU.
Cofinancing by the EU is above all an important helping hand, and we expect that, in any event, half of it will be covered via the EU’s budgets and thus, primarily, via the funds.
Parliament must now have confidence that both the Commission and the Member States will comply with their responsibilities, listen to Parliament and incorporate Natura 2000 into all the relevant policies.
The heads of government made a commitment to do so in Gothenburg and on various occasions subsequently, and this is something they owe both to the citizens of the EU and to our descendants. &#160;&#160; Mr President, before we start this debate, I should like to ask briefly, obviously without wishing to detract from Commissioner Frattini’s qualities, whether you know why the Commissioner for the environment is not here to take part in this very important debate on Natura 2000.
In any case, I believe the speech I am going to make in this Chamber was drafted by his office and his Directorate-General, and Commissioner Dimas himself fully agrees with it.
The commitment made by heads of state and government in Göteborg to halt the decline in the use of biodiversity by 2010 is recognised as a key element of the EU’s sustainable development strategy.
Nature and biodiversity are included in the main priorities for action.
It is in that context that, on 15 July 2004, the Commission adopted its communication on the financing of Natura 2000.
The communication looked at all possible options, including the establishment of a separate fund, and concluded that the most effective approach would be to integrate the funding of Natura 2000 into existing Community financial instruments.
The new structural fund regulations now under discussion in the Council provide for the financing of Natura 2000 and also include mechanisms for guidance and control by the Commission of the programmes the Member States submit.
The Commission is aware that there is concern in Parliament about the priority Member States will give to Natura 2000 when faced with competing demands on limited budgets.
Therefore, on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, it will be up to each Member State to decide on the requirements of its Natura 2000 network in drawing up national programmes for different funding regulations.
Nevertheless, the Commission has proposed an element of ring-fencing that will assist the second axis of Natura 2000 in land management or rural development regulations.
That requires Member States to allocate a minimum of 25% of the total for this fund to this axis, which means that at least EUR 22.75 billion will be available for land management during the 2007-2013 period.
Support from the European Parliament in safeguarding that amount will be crucial.
The structural funds must be part of the funding mechanism for Natura 2000, but there must also be a clear commitment that the money will be spent on specific, authorised objectives; in other words, that the money earmarked and that the release of that money is conditional on national Natura 2000 financing plans being in place in the Member States.
Mainstreaming environmental considerations into all EU policy work is the way forward.
As well as aiming to stop the decline in biodiversity in Europe, Natura 2000 creates and sustains jobs, supports agriculture, forestry and rural development and provides tourism and educational opportunities.
But the truth is that support from the structural funds or the rural development budget will not be enough on its own to fund Natura 2000.
The European Parliament owes it to the citizens of the Union that we stop the decline of biodiversity in Europe.
All the Member States, the Council, and the Commission were in agreement when they created the bird and habitat protection Directive.
Therefore let us now undertake to carry out our decision, and with our joint resources create the material conditions for it too!
The integrated approach in this case would be financed by the Regional Development Fund, the Structural Funds, and also the supplemented LIFE+ fund, however it is workable.
This could be workable, insofar as [1] the funds just named would handle nature protection goals as a real priority, [2] appropriate guarantees would be built into the provisions of the various financial instruments, [3] due to the greater number of tasks, these funds would be supplied with extra money.
The Commission’s answers to our questions, however, have strengthened our misgivings in connection with the effectiveness of the integrated approach.
Because of this, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes we must review this financial solution and consider a financial instrument created specially for this purpose.
This sculpture reminds us once again that Europe is not just a continent, or a political and economic unit, but also an imaginary person.
Europe not only needs competition, development and infrastructure, but, like any woman, she also needs care in order to preserve her beauty and natural assets.
Many natural assets such as lakes, rivers, forests and fields have already been destroyed by industry, urban planning and intensive agriculture.
Now it is really our last chance to save the remaining natural sites in our Member States.
The Socialist Group is committed to providing a clean natural environment for every European citizen.
The Commission’s original communication envisaged EUR&#160;6.1&#160;billion per year for the project.
For new Member States like my country, Hungary, it is not easy to secure money, but we are committed to doing our best to save our unique and untouched natural sites.
However, at least half of the sum should be guaranteed by the EU, which is why I have tabled an amendment to ensure that at least the minimum sum of EUR&#160;3.05&#160;billion per year, or EUR&#160;25.35&#160;billion between 2006 and 2013, is guaranteed by the Commission.
It is very sad to see that the PPE-DE Group has changed its mind once more and wants to delete the reference to a concrete sum in the report.
We support the report as it has already been accepted by the Environment Committee, and ask other Groups to also say ‘no’ to those who try to start cutting the budget for nature and the future of Europe’s environmental assets.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Auken, most sincerely on the quality of her report and also, I would like to say, for her tenacity in defending our common objectives.
Natura&#160;2000 is the main tool for protecting biodiversity and endangered species in the EU.
Despite the slow pace taken by certain Member States, the local administrations and players have set to work.
Today, Natura&#160;2000 covers more than 18&#160;000&#160;sites, 64&#160;million hectares and nearly 15% of the landmass of Europe.
The integrated approach is certainly the most logical one in this regard, and we must now follow this logical path to its end and ensure that it is made compulsory to include Natura&#160;2000 in the funds in question.
This is also the main criticism being levelled at you, Commissioner, by the players on the ground and which is supported by no fewer than 15 Member States and the European Parliament: as Natura&#160;2000 is by definition a concrete example of local governance, it is clear that, if local councillors and officials are not compelled to clearly promote the conservation of habitats and species in special areas, the money will be used for completely different things, for example road construction or the implementation of social or economic development projects.
This is what is said in the important point 8 of our resolution, which our group strongly supports.
Finally, we are also in favour of point 5, which calls on the Commission to make a commitment to amend the new financial instrument LIFE&#160;+ to include a specific item on 'nature conservation' and also to guarantee a minimum amount for Natura&#160;2000 in the next financial perspectives, an amount which, as for other European policies, must match up to our ambitions.
I think that the English translation, which is the other text that I have here, must refer to this matter, because it is seven lines longer than the French translation and those seven lines make specific reference to what I have just mentioned, in particular the proposed minimum amount of EUR 21.35 billion.
In contrast, I am quite stunned but I am not holding it against you, Commissioner by the text that you read to us giving the Commission's position.
The issue being raised which is the subject of Mrs&#160;Auken's report is the financing of Natura&#160;2000.
Although we all appreciate that the environment is very important, the livelihood of human beings has to be the priority.
Natura 2000 has had a negative effect in this regard.
The Habitats Directive, from which Natura 2000 derives, seeks to establish a common framework for nature protection as though wildlife were subject to academic theory.
Nature, by definition, cannot be standardised, nor can real human lives, which is why UKIP opposes the dead hand of the EU wherever its grip extends. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I mentioned in my speech the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, of which I am a member.
That committee voted unanimously on the report.
The benefits derived by the public from this programme are indisputable.
It is estimated that 125&#160;000&#160;jobs have been created in the 15&#160;old Member States alone.
For a number of years, however, it has been apparent that developments in the Natura&#160;2000 network in Europe have not been backed up by appropriate funding for the creation and maintenance of this network.
It will also become more difficult to monitor the implementation of the network at national level.
According to the criteria currently used, certain areas do not qualify for funding under the various structural instruments.
The latter have a number of different aims, which frequently relate to various types of land use, and sometimes even to specific regions.
Separate funding is therefore needed to ensure that the Natura&#160;2000 network can be established.
As an example, in my country, Poland, most of the land that is covered by the Natura&#160;2000 programme does not qualify for the above-mentioned funds, either because the land is part of the national forests, or because it is not used for agriculture.
It is an agreement which still allows for cofinancing or the creation of a separate fund whilst also leaving an extremely attractive option open within the new LIFE+ programme for all those activities that cannot be classified under rural development in their own right.
I call on the House to endorse the work done made by the Environment Committee, and in particular paragraph&#160;5. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, although I have every sympathy for you, I must tell you that we find it very regrettable that Commissioner Dimas is not here, because, during the last session in Strasbourg, we were not satisfied by the answers he gave us and we would have liked to express our dissatisfaction to him once again.
The European Commission proposes to finance Natura&#160;2000 by integrating it in the ERDF fund and in the rural development fund.
The European Union's priority is, quite rightly, growth and employment, and one could wonder what the weighting of matters relating to biodiversity will be in comparison with economic development projects.
In our opinion, only the creation of a specific fund will make it possible to guarantee that all land classified under Natura&#160;2000 can obtain Community co-financing.
Appropriate funding must be guaranteed if we are to achieve these ambitious goals.
As rapporteur for rural development, I must stress the need for a guarantee that Natura 2000 really will be financed under both funds, which will mean that we will need a larger budget for rural development.
The property rights of our farmers and landowners must not be encroached upon without a guarantee of full financial compensation.
Commissioner, as a result of the decisions taken at Brussels, which included a cap on the agriculture budget until 2013, and following CAP reform, which moved funding for modulation from the first to the second pillar – or in other words to cofinancing for rural development – the priority must be to ensure that landowners and farmers in particular get compensation for their efforts.
We farmers have declared our support for sustainable agriculture.
More Europe cannot be achieved with less money, especially not now there are 25&#160;Member States. &#160;&#160; It is evident that the funding of the Natura 2000 network is still very precarious.
As you have already heard, we have no problem as such with the integrated approach, as long as the Commission provides firm guarantees or guidelines, which are currently lacking, and, if I have understood the Commissioner correctly, will be lacking for some time.
Yet, it is important to create a solid social support base to set up the Natura 2000 network.
Since the procedure for the implementation of the Bird and Habitat Directives was carried out without input from the public, we are still – in my country at least – waiting for its publication, because it is a very sensitive issue politically speaking.
What they do want to know is whether, and by whom, they will be compensated if certain things are no longer allowed or if their land has been reduced in value.
It therefore follows that the Commission must communicate in plain terms as quickly as possible.
On behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that financing Natura 2000 from existing funds will be made even more effective.
That will be possible because the priority of financing Natura 2000 will be included in the strategic guidelines relating to the various funds designed to finance the initiatives which are soon to be presented by the Commission and which will help the Member States in presenting their programmes.
Secondly, we have to see how the Commission can contribute to the appropriate use of the available funds.
I can tell you that by the end of this year the Commission will publish a guidance manual designed to explain the funding procedures for Natura 2000, while in 2006 workshops will be organised in every Member State to explain the funding opportunities.
There are certain actions that the Commission considers can be financed through Life+, for instance initiatives in the field of communication, support for setting up local partnerships for the specific promotion of areas and sites that are part of the Natura 2000 network, the development of initiatives relating to the marine environment, which is an extremely important aspect, and innovative schemes for protecting animal or plant species.
The Commission understands, however, that this proposal allows for the possibility of supporting activities designed to develop the marine environment.
It is rather disappointing that the Commission stands here giving us a lecture on the options that currently exist instead of answering the questions put in the course of the debate.
I am well aware that Mr Frattini is not in a position to do that, but to send a Commissioner who is not responsible for this area and who can therefore only make general comments is not the right way to treat Parliament. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Frattini has also convinced me of his expertise on Natura 2000.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
