Measures to combat the rise in oil prices (debate) The next item is the debate on statements by the Council and the Commission on measures to control the increase in oil prices.
The Council is aware of the impact of rising prices on European citizens, and their negative effect on the entire European economy.
As the reasons for high oil prices were well presented by the European Commission in its report last week, I will not discuss them in detail.
As regards energy efficiency, allow me to recall that the March 2007 European Council called for an increase in energy efficiency so as to achieve the objective of 20% savings by 2020.
The Energy End-use Efficiency and Energy Services Directive adopted in 2006 has contributed to achieving this aim.
This sets a binding target of a 20% share of renewable energies in overall EU energy consumption by 2020.
When discussing the rise in oil prices at its recent meeting, the ECOFIN Council, inter alia, reiterated the Manchester agreement adopted in September 2005.
This has a direct effect on our citizens and businesses.
The contribution of energy to the increase in the price index in the fourth quarter of 2007 averaged 0.8% in the euro area.
The increase in prices of motor and heating fuels for households between April 2007 and April 2008 exceeded by far the overall growth of consumer prices.
In particular, emerging economies are consuming more and more energy.
Support to the poorest households can be justified and needed, but needs to be targeted.
Let me recall in more detail the most important elements of these policies, already in place or under examination in this House: the draft directive guaranteeing 20% renewables in our final energy consumption by 2020; the new rules to expand and strengthen the EU's Emissions Trading System (ETS), ensuring that we meet our target of a 20% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 and establishing the ETS as driver for change; the proposal for reducing CO2 emissions from cars and the Fuel Quality Directive that will oblige oil suppliers to progressively reduce their CO2 and energy consumption in the products they sell; and, most importantly, the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, covering all sectors, at all levels, from the International Partnership for Energy Efficiency Cooperation to the Covenant of Mayors at the local level, to specific measures such as labelling of consumer goods or requirements for the energy efficiency of buildings.
Practically all the measures mentioned in the Energy Efficiency Action Plan are cost effective at USD 60 per barrel of oil.
The Commission will therefore continue the work at international level, notably constructive dialogue between the main oil-producing and consuming countries, such as the Jeddah meeting which will be convened this week in Saudi Arabia, or the EU-OPEC dialogue next week.
This means better legislation internally in the EU.
It also means pushing for a more effective international energy efficiency partnership, which was adopted last week at the G8 Energy Ministerial in Japan on the initiative of the European Union.
It should be noted that this 10% can be covered by biofuels or electricity from renewable sources, or by increasing energy efficiency in the transport fleet.
I am convinced that the EU can and must generate the biofuels that it uses in a sustainable and responsible manner and not affect global food-production levels.
In 2005, when the price was 50 dollars a barrel, I asked you for your opinion on the subject, Commissioner Piebalgs, and you replied that this idea was interesting, considering that the Commission did not have the power to control crude oil prices, particularly since the oil market is a global one.
The situation in the fisheries industry, which we will be debating in a moment, is a significant case in point.
We are expecting some clear signals from the Commission and the Council here, especially in the next few days.
First of all, put a tax on speculation.
We are weighed down by costs while the profits being made by Total, Eon, Exxon and the speculators have never been bigger.
It is a structural crisis.
The inherent problem with this model is that it does not incorporate resources and environmental pollution.
I therefore say to you, Commissioner, that we have to be more ambitious where energy efficiency is concerned and the question that I wish to address to you is as follows: should the Council not ask the Commission to propose an entire package of measures in September aimed at a major European initiative for investment in energy efficiency?
Do not be surprised that in countries like Belgium, where demonstrations rarely happen, thousands of people are up in arms.
Faced with this situation the European Union quite correctly anticipated events last year by drawing up a strategy that I would describe as the four-20 strategy for 2020: 20% less energy consumption, 20% more energy efficiency and 20% more renewables.
There are several categories that are frequently mentioned today, those professions that are the most exposed in terms of their everyday working life, such as the fishermen and the road hauliers, but behind them there are also all those low-income households who are the first to suffer as far as their daily budget is concerned because for these families housing costs and transport costs are immediately affected by the increase in fuel charges, and when seen in proportion this affects them far more than it does the pockets of the speculators who are raking in the income from the increased oil prices. (SL) The rapidly rising fuel costs are halting transport around Europe and across the world.
The most horrifying thing is that alongside these prices, oil production costs are actually minimal.
Madam President, high oil and gas prices are here to stay and I doubt very much whether we will see the price much below USD 80 per barrel ever again.
I would like to ask the European Commission to permit Member States, including Hungary, to reduce excise duty on diesel temporarily, because the United States has an enormous competitive advantage in this regard.
Taxation has a huge impact and in my opinion it is very important to allow a reduction in excise duty until long-term measures have been implemented.
This revenue must then be distributed among the economic sectors most affected in each Member State. (PL) Madam President, Europe and the entire world now find themselves in a situation where oil prices can determine not only economic growth, but also the depth of the crisis that is beginning to be felt in the market in food and in the fisheries sector.
We must therefore make a choice: either nuclear energy is bad and must be banned or, if it is not banned because it is safe and because the technology and science have advanced, everyone must benefit from its production.
This demands longer-term measures.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, it has been a fascinating debate and I am very sorry that the time has passed so quickly.
For developed nations we should lead the way in energy efficiency, and my proposal for international partnership has been adopted by the G8.
Concerning consumer protection, I believe that the Commission has always been very consistent on this.
So that is what we need. (Interjections from the floor) Whether it is the companies of Saudi Arabia, Saudi Aramco, that we should tax, or Gazprom, we cannot tax them because they have national legislation on taxation.
If you know these companies that have such a beautiful life... (Interjections from the floor) E.ON does not work in oil.
