Mr President, my point of order relates to Rules 148 and 135 regarding the distribution of the minutes and particularly regarding roll-call votes.
All Members have, this morning, received a booklet containing 113 pages of roll-call votes.
But in the interests of economy and the environment, I would suggest that Parliament look again, or ask Parliament's services to look again, at the interpretation of the word 'distribution' .
Now that these negotiations have been concluded and the Council has expressed its view on their content, it falls to Parliament, in response to the Council' s formal consultation, to give its opinion on the results of the negotiations.
Turning to the substance of my report, the first thing I want to highlight is that, although we are dealing with an implementation agreement exclusively concerned with trade, there is a political dimension to bear in mind in expressing our opinion.
This is the case because the text my report covers is set in the context of the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement, and that agreement is a reflection of the will to promote a genuinely democratic political system, respect for human, social and environmental rights and a fairer social balance, thanks to the greater economic development the liberalisation of trade will generate.
In addition, by institutionalising cooperation between the European Union and Mexico, especially on human rights issues, social affairs and the fight against poverty, an instrument is being created which could be extremely useful for reducing the social inequalities which persist in Mexico and for improving the living conditions of the less advantaged strata of the population.
Of course, during the transition period, and until all products have been fully liberalised, the agreement will be more beneficial to Mexico than the European Union, but this asymmetry also takes account of the levels of development and competitiveness of the European economy as compared with Mexico' s.
For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, and by a very large majority, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy recommends a vote in favour of the Council Decision on the result of negotiations whose benefits we must monitor to make sure they genuinely contribute to promoting a more democratic political system and respect for human rights and social justice.
Mr President, I should like to talk about a particular issue in order to highlight the risk of its posing a serious problem to the European economy and society.
In other words, with a population of 90 million Mexicans, we have agreed to export one pair of shoes per 100 inhabitants in Mexico.
The Commission ought to realise that if the derogation with Mexico is taken as a precedent, 50% of Europe' s shoe industry will be in danger of being wiped out.
We might have been able to dispense with the Lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had Mexico not given us cocoa in the past.
I should like to go briefly into, or at least touch on, two problems.
A few weeks ago I visited Mexico for a number of reasons, one of which was to find out what Mexicans think of the new framework for relations between their country and the European Union, announced with great fanfare in most of the media.
I therefore support the rapporteur' s conclusions although I am concerned about the impact of tariff liberalisation for cut flowers as this could have negative repercussions on certain European regions specialising in this type of agriculture, such as the outermost regions.
We believe, along with the German and Belgian Governments, that we should enforce observance of Article 1 of the Treaty, which contains the fundamental principle, and adopt instruments and set in place practical controls to ensure its implementation.
There are many other aspects of this agreement which, we feel, require correction: I will give just one example - it reveals a European Union economic policy which does not take into consideration the social and economic situation in Mexico or its human development.
The Ferrer report, following what is clearly now the fashion in this Parliament, sets itself the objective of helping to create a new framework that will enable European enterprises to compete on equal terms with the United States and Canada.
That is a totally unrealistic objective for the near future and it is quite obvious for whose benefit the measures advocated in the text are designed.
Mr President, the conclusion of trade negotiations between the European Union and Mexico, considered from a positive perspective, could mean a new and durable framework for the institutionalisation of political dialogue and cooperation, provided that this trade pact works to the benefit of both sides.
As a result of that 500 year-old meeting of civilisations, Mexico is a country culturally and politically bound to Europe.
But Mexico has also made great progress on human rights.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not have a common position on this issue.
The latter part of the group, representing, as you know, groups which regard themselves as defenders of nations and regions internal to the European Member States, take a different view and, of course, members of the group are free to adopt different positions.
Obviously we share a basic concern about everything relating to human rights and sustainable development, especially in a context which leaves no room for social exclusion.
However, many of us feel we cannot realistically and sincerely oppose an agreement like the one before us today, primarily because we believe it will create objective conditions for further development and greater democracy and because, in addition, this agreement includes a suspension clause for non-respect of human rights.
Our decision has nothing to do with her work, it relates to the situation in Mexico.
Mr Zedillo promised to let me have full details to prove to me that our concern was groundless.
Meanwhile, information is reaching us from many sources indicating that serious human rights violations are continuing in many places, increasing our concern.
We quite understand that the economic content of the agreement is intended to bring about improvements, but we also recognise that we have not been able to achieve our aim of shifting the tremendous weight of North American influence that bears down on Mexico and other Latin American countries like a jackboot.
First, from the strategic and political angles, it is important for the European Union to build up its relationship with a country that is so important in that part of the world and which, above all, is making progress in terms of respect for the values of human rights.
Nor should we forget the opportunities represented by this market of 100 million people.
But obviously this political symbolism can in no way allay our concern about environmental issues, social issues and above all human rights issues, and many speakers have already referred to them here today.
The European Parliament' s delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico will be visiting that country.
I support the agreement in its entirety, for it certainly represents a step forward.
These results of the trade negotiations are based on the EU-Mexico agreement to which this Parliament gave the green light on 6 May last year.
It covers all our relations with Mexico, notably cooperation and political dialogue.
It is very important because it will pave the way for organising a meeting of the EC-Mexico Joint Council on the margins of the Lisbon Council next week.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
This is, of course, timed to coincide with the summit in Lisbon next week, and Parliament has had to work extremely speedily, for which I thank so many colleagues who have helped with this and, of course, the secretariat.
One of these is in Rutland, the smallest county in England, where a virtual Rutnet was set up, bringing together people in rural, isolated communities for purposes of leisure, transport, employment and social life generally.
I think for all of us the future for our children and grandchildren is a future of great opportunity, though also of great uncertainty.
We have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow Member, who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has welcomed the Commission' s very important initiative, e-Europe, for the Special European Council to be held in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March, with support and optimism.
So we want supplementary analyses taken into account, we want firmer commitments, we want a specific point about strengthening employment and social cohesion in the information society - because there is nothing about that in the Commission' s communication - and we want a strategy with guidelines, recommendations and indicators.
And we want the European social model to be defended.
I therefore expressly welcome the statement in the e-Europe initiative that its prime objective is to accelerate the positive transformation to the information society in the European Union and gear the transformation towards social and regional integration.
The European Commission sets out ten measures in its communication on the e-Europe initiative, which should level the playing field in the run up to the information society in Europe.
However, caution is required in the legislative area in that we must not over-regulate; in other words, the first question with future legislative proposals should always be, do we actually need this?
I have already referred to the fact that the changes in information technology and the new media affect all areas of life.
It is a disgrace that large countries in the past have not foreseen the need to train, and countries like Germany and the United Kingdom should not be having to bring in workers from elsewhere.
Business-to-business communications are doing well but we must enhance communications between business and consumers in the European Union, where we lag behind the United States.
Mr President, Commissioner, the present initiative is important for the purpose of making decision makers in general more aware of developments, but also because levels of development differ very greatly from one European country to another.
People may hold different views as to the value of this type of investigation, but I think it is important to emphasise that the US model is not the only one which leads to success in the IT society, something which far too many people have said in this House.
Scandinavia is acquitting itself well with its social infrastructure and also, perhaps, with its pensions systems.
We should also remember that the EU countries are very different from one another and that developments are very rapid.
I am glad that this point is made in the report.
The Commission' s proposal aims to create equality through market liberalisation.
Mr President, in the original paper in English, the Commission uses the words 'information society' and not 'knowledge society' .
The information society is the chaos society.
Indeed no one will deny that means of communication, and in particular the Internet, are most important to the future development of our societies, or that the EU Member States are currently trailing behind the United States in this respect, or that we need to legislate to control the potentially anarchic development of these means in order to limit the excesses to which they can give rise and ensure that they are as successful as possible for our people.
Yet I fear that the catalogue of good intentions before us today may, in fact, make it more difficult to achieve the objective we are seeking.
Rather than moving ahead one step at a time and setting the Member States a concrete and quantifiable short or medium-term objective, Parliament is sending out a confused and confusing signal, largely, it is true, because of the rather bizarre committee work.
It is rather surprising, Mrs Ferrer, to read in paragraph 55 of your report that this Parliament expressly supports ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the world of IT is awash with opportunities, if we believed the Commission' s communication and Parliament' s resolution.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is a very positive sign that Lisbon will see focused discussion on the development of the information society in Europe.
The European response to new challenges and exploiting opportunities has, however, been a long time coming.
We Members of the European Parliament cannot stand by either, while Europe continually lags behind its global competitors in the world of the Internet.
Speedy developments in the information society will drastically change our environment and our working and living conditions.
The legislator does not always even have to interfere in developments: in certain matters industry and the players themselves may quickly resolve problems through cooperation.
Consequently, there will have to be more focus on the training of teaching staff in European educational and training programmes.
Mr President, with regard to the Commission' s communication on the information society, I feel that it is particularly important to underscore the emphasis placed on the need to provide all European citizens with access to new technologies.
Mr President, with the e-Europe initiative, the Commission is reminding us that Europe is lagging behind in the development of the information society.
Yes, it is backward in terms of the development of e-commerce made possible by the Internet.
This is important in our own part of the world but is also, of course, especially important in poor countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, metaphorically-speaking, what we have in the new I+C technologies is new fuel for our economic locomotive to re-heat our eco-system.
First: Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam clearly calls for the principle of sustainability to be integrated into all policies.
To be honest, Commissioner, on reading the communication, I find too little account has been taken of sustainability, the question of ecological products, incentives for an ecological lifestyle or the question of the impact which I+C technologies have on environmental protection.
It offers more power, more choice, lower prices to citizens across Europe and indeed across the world, and in my view the best thing that governments can do in cyberspace is to stay out of it as much as they possibly can and let consumers, businesses and citizens get on with their businesses and their lives.
We need a basic legislative framework for e-commerce.
I hope it will be a light-touch framework, but we need to drive it through quickly because the e-clock is ticking and there are many organisations around the world fighting for this business.
We should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for.
We must take the utmost care to ensure that all sectors of society benefit from the information society and that we do not create a society in which social inclusion or exclusion depend on access to the new technologies and the use of their potential.
The first relates to the users and the risk of a gap emerging between the various victims of social exclusion.
My third and last point relates to the question of public service and improving the democratic systems to develop procedures... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, e-Europe is a really important programme for everyone en route from the industrial society to the information society.
The focal point of the report and the prime objective of the Commission' s proposal make it clear that we need to achieve equal opportunities for, and equal participation of, all citizens in the information society.
This goal, in my view, does not justify the concerns raised here about a possible division in society between the haves and have-nots as far as access to information is concerned.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the successful work that has been done in so short a period of time.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important for the European Parliament to take part in the debate on the European Union' s attitude to the opportunities opened up by the information society, an item on the agenda for the Lisbon Summit.
The European Parliament' s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is calling for the information society to become the common property of all citizens, including the socially weak, the disabled and older people.
Once they are able to share in innovation, once they can be won over by the information society, then it must be made clear that this is a success or an advantage not just for private- and public-sector undertakings, but for consumers and employees alike.
We must increase competitiveness and the development of ideas in our part of the world, that is to say in Europe.
I hope that these documents will answer many of your concerns in relation to the realisation of the goals of e-Europe, but it may be that some of the issues will not be addressed, because we must try to remain focused in this initiative.
It is important that we in the European institutions, along with Member States, develop effective means of exploiting the potential of regional technologies, to increase both the efficiency and transparency of our interactions with citizens.
The Commission is asked to include an eleventh action line on employment and social cohesion.
The "e-Europe" communication focuses on the actions necessary to accelerate the transition to the information society.
The efforts which you have made confirm that you share with us a sense of the importance and urgency of this issue for Europe.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr President, before we vote on the Jackson resolution on the Structural Fund programmes, may I draw Parliament' s attention to the French Council of State decree dated 27 September 1999 which cancels the notification of 500 sites that could be designated as special conservation sites and therefore pose a problem.
The Commission has not expressed its opinion on that.
To ensure that Member States are not unjustly penalised, I move that the vote on this report be deferred until the Commission has delivered its reasoned opinion on action to be taken following the Council of State decree.
Mrs Isler Béguin was not in committee on the days we discussed these subjects.
If the House could agree we could overcome all the difficulties that we have with the language versions by putting in as a separate paragraph itself - either as a sub-paragraph of 45 or as a new 45(a) - which says "and urges them not to imprison young people who commit offences, except as a last resort" .
It is, then, not only a question of the right to form trade unions but also of rights vis-à-vis these trade unions. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I should like to make a point of order.
So I agree with you one hundred percent.
I agree with Mr Pirker, and it is probably the only thing I will agree with him on if we do vote on the Ludford report.
We have already overrun by 45 minutes.
Mr President, in order to be completely fair, you should have called for one intervention for the decision to suspend the sitting or continue and adhere to the scheduled voting time and one intervention against.
Mr President, I am sorry but I asked for the floor at the start.
The rapporteur has stated that she agrees with your suggestion, i.e.
Allow me to recapitulate: the President said that we are to vote at 5.30 this evening on whether or not to postpone the vote until the next plenary session.
Sarah Ludford has stated that she agrees with that.
This approach must also take account of the need to put more effort into the total eradication of diseases like leucosis, tuberculosis and brucellosis, and into adequate health procedures.
Ferrer report (A5-0066/2000) - (DA) We cannot vote in favour of the report since there are gross abuses of human rights in Mexico.
That has most recently been demonstrated in an Amnesty report from December 1999 which draws attention to, among other things, the serious problems in the Chiapas region.
Finally, this agreement ignores most of the proposals put forward by social, trade union, human rights and environmental organisations in Mexico and the European Union which, for their part, aim to ensure that social, cultural and political cooperation take precedence over mercenary aspects.
We abstained on the GUE resolution because, although we agree with a number of its criticisms of the Commission, in the recitals the Commission is described as an "indispensable interinstitutional instrument" , which is not how we see it.
Duff/Voggenhuber report (A5-0064/2000) Mr President, we heard many speakers from the federalist majority of this Parliament say here yesterday that the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights under preparation would give a big boost to citizens' rights.
Of course, some people will say this was merely a new formulation of existing rights, but it is clear that this operation will go much further, with the European Parliament already calling for an innovative Charter.
Mr President, I voted for the report despite many misgivings because it included Mrs Morgan' s excellent proposed amendment on minority languages and cultures.
But I think that we have taken an important step here towards greater protection of minorities traditionally present in the European Union.
Mr President, my party, the Socialist Party in the Netherlands, is in favour of democratic cooperation from the bottom up among the European peoples, but not of a large European superstate modelled on the United States of America.
Of all the groups represented here, it is their view that takes least account of equivalence, democracy and human rights.
Mr President, this week Parliament has dealt with the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights and we have specified - adequately I believe - the civil rights of individuals.
For me, however, as a representative of the Basque Country, collective rights are still lacking - and I hope they will soon be included - for example, the right of self-determination for European peoples and nations with a collective consciousness as such, so that, if a majority of their citizens so decide, they can join the European Union directly and not just through the existing Member States.
We are in favour of the drawing up of a Charter of Fundamental Rights in the form of a political document.
A Charter could make a positive contribution to this.
Drawing up a set of binding, fundamental rights would raise a series of very difficult questions of principle, in terms both of the content of these rights and of their relationship to other sets of fundamental rights, for example the European Convention on Human Rights.
If we nonetheless choose to vote in favour of the whole report, that is because we believe that fundamental human rights are one of the foundations upon which the EU is built and because we want a Charter concerning these to be drawn up in the form of a political document.
Whether it is subsequently to be incorporated into the Treaty in a form that is binding will depend upon an assessment of whether the content of the Charter would provide citizens with better protection than that which they have at present. - (SV) The most important development for the EU' s future right now is that the Intergovernmental Conference should reach agreement concerning the reforms which are required in order to facilitate the enlargement of the Union in accordance with a fixed timetable.
We have voted in favour of the EU' s Charter of Fundamental Rights being introduced as a matter to be considered by the Intergovernmental Conference, thereby guaranteeing, among other things, citizens' rights in relation to the EU' s institutions.
Moreover, we do not wish to see two sets of rights on the European continent - one for citizens of EU countries and another for citizens of non-EU countries.
It is therefore crucial for any EU Charter not to affect existing international conventions and declarations of rights, but merely to require that EU countries sign these.
We do not, however, see it as a solution for the EU to accede to the Convention on Human Rights as a juristic "person" , since we do not share the view that the EU is, or should be, identified as having the status of a separate politico-governmental body.
The European Court of Justice should not have jurisdiction over areas already covered by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or by other international bodies.
On the contrary, we are persuaded that in future we shall see a Europe without frontiers between unified nations, from one end of the continent to the other.
As the representative of the people of the European Union, our Parliament must take a very careful look at the contents of this document.
Any amendment of the Charter must come under the same procedure as its original drafting procedure, which means it would require the assent of the European Parliament.
The indivisibility of these fundamental rights must be recognised by making the Charter applicable to all the European Union' s institutions and bodies and all its policies, including those contained in the second and third pillars, in the context of the powers and functions conferred upon it by the Treaty.
Already, within the European Union, Member States have ratified and transposed into their legal systems the European Convention on Human Rights, which, although the document is nearly 50 years old, has shown itself capable of evolving in line with changing conditions as well as developing new rights.
I believe that what is now proposed with this 'Charter' will eventually lead to conflict between the interpretation of rights under the different documents, which could create a legal vacuum and, ironically, reduce the rights available.
We need more time and debate on these potential conflicts. - (SV) At the Council' s meeting in Cologne, it was decided that an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights should be prepared.
The relationship between the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights appears, for example, to be legally complicated and could undermine the European Convention on Human Rights.
We are therefore abstaining from voting in the final vote. - (DA) The Danish Liberal Party' s five Members of the European Parliament, Bertel Haarder, Anne E.
We are not voting against a Charter itself, but so far the process seems to suggest a wasted opportunity to protect the citizens of Europe from the overburdening powers of the European Institutions.
There is a gap to be filled in providing fundamental rights to citizens of the Member States concerning European regulation and legislation.
Conservative MEPs will continue to examine the progress of the proposed Charter through our representative on that body, Timothy Kirkhope, MEP, (Yorkshire), and in discussions with our colleagues in the European Parliament, and we will be as positive as possible in this exercise.
A Charter of this kind should be based on the most progressive acquis and combine social and democratic rights.
A Charter of that kind would offer support to all those men and women who are fighting against a Europe that lays off workers or expels immigrants who do not have the proper identity papers. - (DE) I did not vote for the resolution, despite the fact that I am in favour of a charter of fundamental rights, because it contains demands which overshoot the mark and risk causing considerable confusion by formulating the same rights differently and, more importantly, jeopardising the universality of human rights.
I would much rather see the European Union and, of course, all the Member States, quickly accede to the 1950 Human Rights Convention as opposed to the inevitable dispute regarding the new wording of the fundamental rights of Union citizens.
In order to safeguard uniform case law and prevent differing interpretations, case law should continue to be the preserve of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg which, thanks to the quality of its case law on the 1950 Convention over the past 40 years, has provided a dynamic instrument which takes full account of the social, economic and ethical developments within our society.
A Charter of this kind will have a very important symbolic value and will strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the EU and in European integration.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights should be seen as complementing the European Convention on Human Rights, which we believe should be incorporated into the Treaty.
The Charter should concentrate on the relationship between citizens and the European institutions.
The Charter should be legally binding through its also being incorporated into the EU' s Treaty.
The Charter must not only be a declaration, but also entail obligations of some kind on the part of the EU' s institutions and Member States.
In fact, the significance of this document is obvious if it is regarded as a potential preamble to a European constitution; conversely, it would be redundant in those Member States that already include these rights in their own constitution and legal traditions and confirm them by ratifying international texts such as the European Convention and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This kind of Europe is based on a new totalitarianism in which man finds himself alone facing a Community administration that is as remote as it is impersonal, in which the intermediate structures - and in particular the most vital one of all, the family - have been gradually destroyed.
However, we are at a very early stage in the process of determining the Charter.
This decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in Paragraph 6.
This is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all EU countries.
In my view, a declaration would be more appropriate.
The European Convention on Human Rights is an excellent tool for protecting human rights in Europe.
At the same time, it is the European Court of Justice' s practice to take account of the national fundamental rights applicable in the Member States.
This practice could be affected if the EU were to obtain its own set of fundamental and human rights.
Jackson resolution (B5-0227/2000) My Group voted in favour of the Jackson resolution on Structural Funds in the environment because we believe in the principle of ensuring effective implementation of environmental law - in this case, the wild birds and habitats directive.
However, we are surprised that Members of this House voted for the original proposal in paragraph 7 to cut off funds to some of our poorest regions in the EU.
Members of the Environment Committee clearly cannot be aware of the undue delays that any non-approval of Structural Funds programmes would create, nor indeed of the new budgetary procedure that could involve not only delays but the loss of millions in funds in the case of the UK to Merseyside, South Yorkshire, the Highlands and Islands, Northern Ireland, Cornwall and the Isle of Wight.
I therefore welcome the fact that this House voted by a majority against cutting off resources.
The Structural Funds Regulation - decided unanimously last year by all the Member States - clearly states that the ex-ante evaluation is a prerequisite to the programme and the planning documents which the Member States submit to the Commission for approval.
The Structural Funds regulation also states that this ex-ante evaluation should include an assessment of the environmental situation, especially in areas which might be influenced by Structural Fund intervention.
The Commission is deluding itself if it thinks that it can use Article 39 to recoup what it has failed to obtain during ex-ante evaluation.
Yet the Commission, ever faithful to its nature and its habits, cannot stop taking every opportunity to overwhelm the states and their citizens with new directives and pernickety little rules, which often bear little relation to real local conditions.
The only result of this kind of overload is to paralyse the economic players a little more each day and to hold back freedom of enterprise.
Malmström report (A5-0060/2000) Mr President, I would like, as a matter of priority, to thank Parliament for lending its support to aid for Mongolia.
I hope this will lead to a much more proactive approach on the part of the Commission, as I have not seen a sign of this yet.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Union has become more visible on the international stage thanks to the appointment of a CFSP High Representative, in the person of Javier Solana.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has made respect for human rights one of the main objectives of the EU' s common foreign and security policy.
Furthermore, the democratic oversight of national intelligence services is, in any case, primarily a matter for national parliaments.
The United Kingdom has one of the most effective systems of democratic oversight, both political and judicial, of its intelligence services in the world.
For example, we do not share the enthusiasm for an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
While we value the role of the EU in supporting human rights, we believe that human rights regulation and legislation, as in so many areas dealing with the relationship between the citizen and the state, is a matter for national governments, and we do not welcome an extension of EU intervention in this area.
It is for these reasons that British Conservatives have voted against the Malmström resolution.
Haarder report (A5-0050/2000) Mr President, I would have liked to have voted for the Haarder report, in spite of certain passages in it, and certain statements, including some to the House, to the effect that there are no rights for the family and that to grant special rights to the family would be a discriminatory, not to say racist, measure.
If there are no specific family rights as such - as the Committee on Women' s Rights decided, very much against my wishes - then such rights do not exist for the other heterosexual or same-sex communities either and the section on "Lifestyles and types of relationship" has no place in this report.
Marriage and the family form the basis for human rights, as does the right to life.
Secondly, I should also like to note that, broadly speaking, my Group supports the Haarder report and expressly highlights the fact that there was excellent cooperation with the rapporteur.
Hence our support in principle.
We voted against it, however, because two points were accepted by the majority of the House; I refer to points 53 and 54, which tackle the issue of the family and the excessive support or special support for all alternative types of partnership.
Mr President, I just wanted to add to what Mr Pirker has said by pointing out that I voted in favour of point 42 of the Haarder report despite the fact that it contains an error because Austria is named in connection with freedom of movement.
I am therefore able to tell the House that both Felix Habsburg-Lothringen and Karl Ludwig Habsburg-Lothringen have valid passports without any form of restriction.
That same article defines the family in terms of the marriage between a man and a woman.
The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights repeats the same idea by declaring, in Article 10, that "The widest possible protection and assistance should be accorded to the family, which is the natural and fundamental group unit of society" .
Let me remind you that this report replaces the traditional memorandum on EU activities in this field which the Council used to present to the European Parliament every year to inform it of EU action on human rights in the world over the past year.
This report aims to explain the EU' s motives and the institutional structures and instruments available to it for conducting an active policy of respect for human rights.
More specifically, the report points out that the Treaty of Amsterdam has introduced new human rights provisions in order to underpin EU action in this field, especially in the context of the CFSP.
Thus the Treaty has established respect for fundamental rights, as guaranteed by the Council of Europe' s Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as a principle.
That means the European Union is 'founding' its action on the principles of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
With enlargement, the European Union has clearly announced to all candidate countries that respect for democracy, the law, human rights and minorities is a basic accession criterion.
Our European Parliament has a vital role to play in the formulation and practical application of EU human rights policy.
Our powers have gradually increased so that this Parliament has now become a forum for discussion of human rights, a recognised forum as our debate today proves.
On the situation of candidate countries, much progress remains to be made, especially in relation to respect for the rights of minorities.
I voted for these paragraphs because I agree with the objectives of the rapporteur.
Secondly, I do not support the lowering of the age of consent below 18 years of age.
Yet I would also like to draw my colleagues' attention to two requests made in the report, which I find problematic.
Paragraph 19 of the report, concerning the protection of national minorities, and paragraph 20, calling for the ratification of the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, pose real problems.
Parliament firmly rejects abuses of fundamental freedoms throughout Europe, as the Haarder report emphasises.
The Republic cannot recognise specific 'minorities' or 'communities' : in its view there are only autonomous and free citizens with equal rights.
In view of our convictions we must also express strong reservations about paragraph 20 of the report, which refers to the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages.
Everyone is free to use one or several languages of his or her choice in addition to the language of the Republic and everyone has the right to learn them at school.
The European Union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated in order to protect its imperialistic interests.
The recent and continuing invasions in Kosovo, using the rights of minorities as a pretext, and the unbelievable demands being made on Yugoslavia are a typical example of how military intervention is being advanced as a general principle of international law at the expense of the principle of national sovereignty.
The effects of this policy are already visible in the rise of extremist, fascist powers and racist perceptions, and not just in Austria.
An additional charter, European or not, will certainly not provide them. - (NL) We have consented to the Haarder report but would like to make the following observations regarding paragraphs 19 and 20 of the draft report.
Paragraph 19 urges Belgium to sign the Convention for national minorities.
So, whoever tries to change the situation in the Brussels periphery using this convention will implicitly put the future of the Belgian constitutional equilibrium at risk and illustrate once again that a European lack of insight into our federal system can lead one to think that we would be better off as the separate Member States of Flanders and Wallonia, rather than as a federal Member State of Belgium.
Moreover, we regret that in paragraph 5 of the Ludford report, the same text was adopted for racism and xenophobia.
Two of the provisions in that text call on a number of countries, including France, to ratify the European Framework Convention for the protection of national minorities and the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages without delay.
I have voted against the Haarder report because, in calling for the ratification of the European Framework Convention for the protection of national minorities and the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, it is seeking to promote a concept of European integration that is based on a vision to which I cannot subscribe.
According to that concept, the individual has particular rights based on his membership of a territorial, ethnic or religious entity, while the community constitutes the key means of mediating between the individual and the right he is claiming.
That Europe affirms the primacy of a principle not found in the Haarder report, the secular principle, which contains and synthesises all the other freedoms: right to respect for private life, freedom of conscience and religion, freedom of expression and association.
For the same reasons, I abstained on the report on the fight against racism and xenophobia in the European Union. . (SV) It is incompatible with the subsidiarity principle and proximity principle that the 626 Members of the European Parliament should pronounce upon what vision of the family and what legislation affecting the family the 15 Member States and the twelve candidate states' national parliaments should arrive at.
In solemn speeches and addresses, such as that given this week in the European Parliament by the Prime Minister of the country currently holding the presidency of the Union, Portugal, the wealth of Europe' s different cultures, traditions, languages and national identities has been emphasised time after time.
To then state that the family' s - and, therefore indirectly, children' s - legal position should be standardised throughout Europe, as proposed in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the present resolution, constitutes a basic offence against the national right to legislate and against the EU' s own subsidiarity principle, as formulated in the Treaties of Maastricht and Amsterdam.
While the persistence of discrimination between men and women, with regard to pay for example, is unacceptable, to set men against women, as some feminist organisations do, would be sterile and put social cohesion at risk.
As we put it in Brussels on 1 March, that kind of policy would reflect a profound contempt for women: women should gain access to political or administrative posts not through the mechanical workings of some form of quota but through the recognition of their merits and abilities.
Women have a specific role to play in society: they have a vital family role to play in the procreation of the new generations that are essential to the survival of society, a role to play in educating the young; they have an economic role, as mother of the family, but also a role within family enterprises (family holdings, businesses, SMEs).
On the one hand, that implies giving the wives of self-employed workers who play a part in the family business a stable status and, on the other hand, recognising the economic and social role of the mother.
It calls for equal rights for same-sex couples and traditional couples and families, forgetting the vital role the family plays in social cohesion.
Just imagine the psychological future of children with two fathers and no mother, or two mothers and no father!
Western Sahara The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0246/2000 by Mrs González Álvarez and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0253/2000 by Mr Sánchez García and others on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0262/2000 by Mr Carnero González and others on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0272/2000 by Mrs Schröder and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0278/2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez Neyra and others on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the Western Sahara.
We believe there should be more emphasis on asking Morocco to concentrate its political will on resolving the conflict, because the Sahrawis have demonstrated time and again that they want it finally resolved.
Mr President, the European Union - and Parliament within it, of course - must strive to avoid a new conflict in an area which is already troubled enough.
The first is the United Nations Security Council' s urgent resolution of 29 February, which agreed to extend the MINURSO mandate to the end of May.
And here the High Representative for the CFSP, Mr Solana, ought to play a more active role in achieving adequate guarantees for the Sahrawi people through an active presence and direct participation in the stages of the peace process and the referendum.
The European Union must fully assume its role of mediator in this process, which is important not just for the region itself, but also for the whole of Europe, and especially for certain countries.
Mr President, after the vote in East Timor, the process of self-determination in Western Sahara is the last one outstanding in the world.
I would even say that the transition to full democracy apparently under way in the Kingdom of Morocco also depends on it.
From our point of view, the culmination of the process of self-determination in Western Sahara lies in the application of the peace plan from the United Nations and the Organisation for African Unity.
In spite of the efforts of the United Nations, in spite of MINURSO, in spite of the progress that has been made in compiling the electoral roll, the referendum keeps being postponed virtually sine die.
Direct dialogue between the parties is essential.
The most important point in the resolution we are going to adopt here today is the European Parliament' s call to the Council to take common action, as provided for in the Treaty on European Union, on Western Sahara.
Mr President, I should like on behalf of my Group to voice our serious concern at the current situation in the Western Sahara to the European Parliament and, more importantly, the Commission and the Council.
The constant postponement of the referendum on the future of the Western Sahara is unacceptable.
At least 56 people have been arrested, including 27 women, for fighting for the right to self-determination.
We had a similarly dramatic situation a year ago in East Timor.
Mr President, to begin with, I want to agree with most of what has been said in this regard, especially by my colleague, Mrs González Álvarez.
I hope that we shall be able relatively soon to have a meeting in connection with what was stated here in the European Parliament by German aid organisations the other day, namely that refugees in the camps are in danger of starving and that infant mortality and deaths in childbirth have already increased by an alarming amount in recent months.
I cannot think of anything worse than languishing for 25 years among the sand dunes and being taken in by referenda year upon year, only then to starve to death.
A referendum should have been held years ago, as it was in other countries such as East Timor, Latvia and other places where the right to self-determination has been exercised.
The position of the European Parliament has always been to support, not the independence of the Sahrawi, but the right of the Sahrawi people to freely express their views.
Mr President, the peace process in the Western Sahara initiated and led by the Secretary-General of the United Nations looked promising.
In its motion for a resolution, my Group reaffirms the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination and calls on Morocco to call an end to all forms of repression and to apply in full the Houston Agreements to which it has subscribed.
The United Nations must do its utmost to ensure that the referendum is held before the end of 2000.
I call on the Council and the governments of the Member States, in particular France and Spain, to stop being so accommodating vis-à-vis the Moroccan authorities and to involve themselves more actively in the success of the peace plan and the holding of the referendum, for that is the most appropriate democratic means of achieving a peaceful and lasting settlement of the conflict in Western Sahara.
As for humanitarian aid, the Commission channelled more than EUR 61 million through NGO partners to provide Sahrawi refugees in the Tindouf region with food, medical and sanitary aid between 1993 and 1999, and even though the circumstances for delivering humanitarian aid in this case are quite difficult, this will not stop us from continuing our support.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mozambique The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0244/2000 by Mr Miranda and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0251/2000 by Mr Queiró and Mr Ribeiro i Castro on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group; B5-0254/2000 by Mr van den Bos on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0263/2000 by Mrs Carrilho and others on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0276/2000 by Mr Rod and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0279/2000 by Mrs Maij-Weggen and others on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the floods in Mozambique.
Mr President, we are all aware of the tragic situation in Mozambique, and it is a matter of the utmost urgency to provide the necessary aid so that the government can respond to the most urgent needs of its people and succeed in reconstructing the vast regions where destruction has been almost total.
It is equally important that all the countries cancel Mozambique' s debt in full so as to facilitate its recovery.
Angola, for example, has powerful armed forces which could have given valuable assistance, or Zimbabwe, just next door, or Nigeria, which has an operational air force.
As a Christian Democrat, I am sensitive to the appeals of the Catholic Church in this jubilee year for positive handling of the external debt of the third world as a whole.
We know this is not the situation in Mozambique, as poor as the country may be.
Mr President, the media have portrayed a distorted image of the disaster which struck Mozambique.
There is a need for much better cooperation between the aid organisations and the armed forces to this end.
The 25 million aid package is sufficient for now, but will need to be increased at a later date.
It is therefore up to us, Parliament, the Council and the Commission, to closely monitor the victims ourselves.
As for the European Union, it must take a leading role.
In addition, in cooperation with the local authorities and other countries and organisations, particularly the United Nations, the European Union can make a serious effort to organise and support the reconstruction of Mozambique.
Mr President, we all know that the consequences of the tragic flood disaster in Mozambique would have been less serious if the more developed countries, and especially the countries of the European Union, which has a special responsibility for the former Portuguese colony, had reacted immediately by sending the necessary resources, especially helicopters, to help the population.
We appreciate the fact that he travelled to Mozambique in person to assess the situation and to see what the EU could do in the way of aid.
Moreover, I heard this morning that debts have most definitely been deferred but that it is to be examined how this will be dealt with in future.
Mr Van den Bos has also pointed this out.
Mr President, rarely has the European Parliament devoted its attention to a natural disaster in circumstances so dramatic and so deserving of our support.
We have directed our attention to the following areas of concern: immediate relief, resettlement, rehabilitation, macro-economic stability and long-term development.
For the relief emergency aid and resettlement phase, the Commission has approved two ECHO decisions for a total of EUR 2.7 m for Mozambique, and we are preparing a third decision for EUR 5.5 m.
In addition, EUR 1.4 m from the food security budget line have been made available locally to the delegation and the government of Mozambique.
In addition to the action already funded in Botswana, the Commission is currently carrying out a humanitarian need assessment in Zimbabwe, Zambia and Madagascar.
Turning to the rehabilitation phase, during my visit I announced an initial amount of EUR 21 m in additional funds from the development budget, of which 5 to 10 m will come from the NGO co-financing budget line and the balance from redistribution of earlier EDF funds.
The Commission is insisting on the need for reinforced coordination with the government around the shared comprehensive reconstruction framework.
The Commission will provide its funding for the rehabilitation requirements in strict coordination with EU Member States and the other donors.
As to macro-economic stability and long-term development: proposals intended to help Mozambique maintain macro-economic stability are currently being appraised by the Commission with the government and the World Bank.
Concerning coordination with other donors and aid agencies: the Mozambique government, in conjunction with the UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA), provides the principal platform for coordination of rescue and relief as expressed in the consolidated appeals they have made.
This local ownership of the coordination process should not be challenged by outside donors, at least not as long as it works reasonably well, and this - the UN organisations in Maputo informed us - is in fact the case.
The overall figure of funding for this disaster now stands at about EUR 109 m globally, of which more than EUR 91 m come from the Commission and the EU Member States.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Human rights The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Presidential elections in Peru B5-0252/2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Jové Peres on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0255/2000 by Mr Di Pietro on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0264/2000 by Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Fava on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0270/2000 by Mr Lipietz and Mr Knörr Borrás on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0280/2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the electoral process in Peru.
War crimes in Chechnya B5-0245/2000 by Mr Markov and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0256/2000 by Mr Haarder and Mr Väyrynen on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0261/2000 by Mr Oostlander and others on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats; B5-0265/2000 by Mr Sakellariou and Mrs Krehl on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0271/2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on violations of human rights and humanitarian law in Chechnya.
Freedom of the press in Serbia B5-0247/2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0257/2000 by Mr Haarder on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0266/2000 by Mr Swoboda and Mr Sakellariou on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0273/2000 by Mr Lagendijk and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0281/2000 by Mr Oostlander and others on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on freedom of the press in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Situation in Iraq B5-0268/2000 by Mr Naïr and Mr Sakellariou on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0282/2000 by Mr Buttiglione on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the situation in Iraq.
Mr President, Peru has had quite a troubled constitutional life with frequent incursions by the military into civilian life.
The European Parliament has already had occasion to condemn this type of action by President Fujimori.
Yes, there are still elections in Peru, there are political parties, there are means of communication and there are certain guarantees.
Remember that, as a member of the Andean Pact, Peru is bound to the European Union by a democracy clause and the European Community, or more specifically the Community institutions, has a certain responsibility by virtue of that democracy clause to call for the electoral process in Peru to be adapted, as far as possible, to certain essential democratic requirements.
Mr President, as a member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and also as a Member of the European Parliament from the Basque Country, a land which has supplied a fair number of emigrants to Latin American countries, I want to express my solidarity with all those who fight for human rights to be upheld - not only in Peru, but throughout the world.
And I want to denounce the situation that exists in Peru, a situation which is due not just to the complacency and connivance of the United States, as has been mentioned here, but also to that of plenty of other countries, including European ones, and the hypocrisy which reigns over international politics.
In this respect, the reference just now to a permanent human rights observatory for Latin America seems to me entirely appropriate.
Mr President, on 9 April the Republic of Peru will be holding presidential elections and legislative elections to elect the 90 members of Congress.
As has already been mentioned, the European Union maintains relations with Peru in the context of the cooperation agreement signed with the Andean Pact, in force since 1998.
We hope all the political parties will be able to take part in these elections freely and on equal terms.
War crimes in Chechnya: Mr President, our primary duty in the struggle to protect the civilian population, refugees and prisoners of war in Chechnya is to do everything to finally bring the war in Chechnya to an end.
Only a political solution to all the issues connected with the conflict and reconstruction of the region will guarantee a change in the awful situation faced by the people in the towns and villages which have been destroyed, in the refugee camps and in the prisoner of war camps.
There are, however, two sides to this political tale of war and suffering, and I think we must seek more strongly to understand the causes of conflict between Russia and Chechnya, so that we can help to stem the flow of human blood more quickly another time.
Mr President, I must contradict Mr Markov quite categorically.
Of course, we must call on the Russian authorities here but we too must become more involved than previously, because this is not a simple internal matter of state; it is a question of human rights violations on a massive scale in an area subject to the Human Rights Convention of the Council of Europe, in an area subject to the system of rights and values of the OSCE.
Today we discussed the right to self-determination in the Western Sahara; I should like to point out that the Chechen people also has a right to life and we must safeguard the Chechen people' s right to life, either jointly with Russia or on our own.
It seems to be becoming a permanent phenomenon in the region.
For example, the idea to use the TACIS programme as a sanction will only lead to ordinary people suffering and has not deterred the Russian government in their policy.
Secondly, the human rights situation is intolerable, and we therefore need a proper investigation into violations of human rights by all parties.
We should be reminded, however - so as not to be too sanctimonious in all of this - that when Chechen refugees turned to us for help we did not receive them in our own countries as we did on such a large scale with Kosovo.
Except that the Russian government does not appear to be totally convinced of the fact.
We reject and shall not accept any unilateral interpretation of the agreement by the Russian government.
This is a despicable war, whose prime victims are the people of Chechnya, but also the young Russian soldiers.
What public opinion sees is a few declarations condemning certain aspects of the war in Chechnya; what we are actually seeing is political and financial support for the Kremlin.
Many of the parties represented here in Parliament form part of governments that are pursuing this policy of conciliation and support.
The Serbian authorities are suppressing newspapers, independent radio stations and any radio stations which acknowledge opposition groups or parties.
The situation in Yugoslavia is deteriorating by the day.
The new regime can only win the new local elections, expected in May, if the opposition is, in effect, eliminated.
The latter is a vital lifeline for the opposition which will be mounting campaigns again this spring and which certainly deserves our support, also where the media is concerned.
But it can never replace support provided to the media in Yugoslavia, in Serbia, media which deserve this support.
We just heard that Mr Wiersma was denied a visa to visit the opposition in Belgrade.
Mr President, apparently, the Milosevic regime is not tired of fighting battles, not by a long shot.
The target, regional radio and television stations, is an obvious one from a Milosevic viewpoint.
Situation in Iraq: Mr President, the majority of the Security Council - France, China, Russia - is now in favour, subject to certain conditions, of lifting the embargo imposed on Iraq nearly ten years ago.
The International Atomic Energy Agency has concluded, after a number of investigations on the ground, that Iraq has no capacity to produce nuclear weapons, as has been confirmed by the reports of three groups of experts on Iraq, and as the UN Security Council' s Resolution 1284 confirms today.
That is why our resolution calls for this embargo to be lifted.
Washington has refused this proposal too, thus creating a situation which primarily hits the Iraqi people and not their leaders.
For the first time in ten years, an American delegation of advisors and congressmen published a report yesterday, on 14 March, on their return from a visit to Iraq.
Our resolution therefore calls for an end to this situation.
At that time, we will endeavour to obtain the support of all those who want to bring this inhumane embargo to an end and to do so, needless to say, without giving Saddam Hussein' s regime a blank cheque.
As things stand at the moment, the Iraqi government is not prepared to accept this resolution, and there is a real danger that when the United Nations Commission responsible for monitoring the destruction of weapons of mass destruction applies for an entrance visa it will be refused.
I am sure that the Iraqi Government is prepared to accept Resolution 1284 - a fact confirmed by contact with the Iraqi leaders - but it needs clarification on certain points which are referred to in the Resolution.
I feel that it would be more destabilising for the regime to return to a more comfortable situation in terms of trade, to a situation in which the people have at least some hope of happiness, rather than to continue with the embargoes which, at this stage, are not succeeding in overthrowing the regime, but are simply inflicting enormous suffering on the people and, in particular, on Iraqi children.
I feel that our resolution should also serve to reassure the State of Israel.
We must therefore make it clear to Israel that a major concern of our policy is the defence of the State of Israel and the right of the State of Israel to exist.
We must draw up a balanced resolution which is acceptable to all the parties involved if we want to avoid the military clash which is lurking over the horizon: not a demagogic declaration, but a political proposal in which Europe takes control in order to protect world peace, exercising its key role in this area with due responsibility.
Nevertheless, I realise that it is also important for us to achieve as great a consensus as possible in order to give our governments a firm basis.
But the debate will continue, regardless of what is going to happen in the next part-session in April and which I hope will accord with the political wishes the two of you have expressed here.
We should not forget that in January this year Parliament passed a resolution asking that the Kuwaiti prisoners of war still imprisoned in Iraq should be released or at least that details should be given to their families and that there should be compliance with the United Nations resolutions.
Mr President, the UN sanctions have become a weapon of mass destruction, claiming at least 200 children's lives every day.
Dennis Halliday, who resigned from his position as director of the UN humanitarian mission in Iraq in protest at the sanctions, confirms the UNICEF statistics - five to six thousand children die every month as a direct result of the sanctions.
Mary Robinson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, has been speaking out against the sanctions imposed in violation of international law, which prohibits the starving of civilians as a method of warfare.
These most sensitive health indicators show that Iraq is at the lowest possible level in the table after Afghanistan, Djibouti and Somalia, as the least developed country in the region.
This is the country which, per capita, has the capacity to be the richest in the world.
The fault lies with the government of Iraq.
The European Union - and we have debated human rights, xenophobia and discrimination at length over the past few days - must fight against this extremism with all the means at its disposal wherever it occurs, at home, in the candidate countries or throughout the entire world.
We have to support all available initiatives.
In this sense, Mr President, I consider it important for Europe to raise its voice and call on both countries, both India and Pakistan, to do whatever they can and to offer them both international aid if they consider that it is needed or makes sense in order to resolve this conflict.
But when I was in Azad Kashmir and I went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago I was very moved by the first-hand accounts I heard.
Relations between India and Pakistan are indeed deteriorating, with Kashmir being a particular bone of contention.
Tensions are also being aggravated by the fact that these two countries are nuclear powers.
Indeed, in the Herald Tribune of Tuesday, March 14, 2000, the headline reads: "Nuclear war between India and Pakistan is a real possibility" .
For this reason alone, supported also by the well-known UN resolutions and the reference which has already been made to the constant violation of human rights, Kashmir is no longer a problem that can be swept under the carpet and not debated in this Parliament, as has happened for many years.
The US is in favour of arbitration, but it strikes me that, when President Clinton visits these two countries next week, India should be asked to come to the negotiating table so that, together with Pakistan, it can find a long-term settlement to this Kashmir question.
As these two approaches are made, this two-pronged approach by the European Union and the United States is, in my view, the best way to start the process for long-term peace and stability in this region.
I am then often ashamed at how little influence we can exert as a huge economic power in the political field.
India and Pakistan were supposed to attempt this on their own, but this only led to a whole raft of small conflicts which - and the previous speakers were right to underline this - have taken on more threatening proportions since both countries have become nuclear powers.
I am convinced that international mediation is desirable and necessary.
The political and military situation needs to be further stabilised in order to create a climate for bilateral talks.
Some Member States announced, however, that they would be sending observers on a bilateral basis including, in some cases, representatives of their national parliaments.
The Commission also reiterated this message through Foreign Minister Ivanov during the ministerial troika on 2 March, where we submitted to him a number of concrete proposals including ECHO assessment missions to Chechnya, NGO access and basic requests, visits of EU diplomats to the region before presidential elections to report on civil conditions, the humanitarian situation, alleged human rights abuses and investigations.
On the media situation in Serbia, the mounting series of actions taken against Studio B by the authorities last week are wholly unacceptable and we deplore them.
The increasing pressure put on the independent media shows just how important those media are.
The European Commission has made great efforts to support the independent media in Serbia.
The European Commission's Europe-by-satellite service is continuing its support by making available time on its service for independent TV stations in Serbia to broadcast information which will reach the rest of the region and encourage exchange of programmes.
Ways should be pursued to engage the Iraqi government in a dialogue on the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions which might lead to a gradual easing of sanctions.
The Commission is, however, concerned about the restrictions imposed by the Iraqi Government on NGO operations, which may jeopardise the implementation of ECHO financed humanitarian aid programmes in Iraq.
Finally, Mr President, on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the Commission welcomes the European Parliament's deep concern regarding the Kashmir conflict reflected in the different draft resolutions.
India should be encouraged to look for and explore the full potential towards internal political solutions to meet the expectations of the Jammu and Kashmir populations in line with the possibility for enhanced autonomy as enshrined in its constitution.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I support the motion for a joint resolution tabled by a large number of my fellow Members and supported by the most representative groups of this Parliament, for we must call urgently upon the governments of the Member States to intensify the fight against organised crime and make it more effective where, in addition to cigarette smuggling, this involves drug and arms trafficking and, even more importantly, the trafficking of human beings.
Our colleagues in the public police departments do not only deserve our full solidarity and respect; above all, we owe it to them to acknowledge once and for all that, wherever we live in the European Union, officials of the Guardia di Finanza in Apulia, for example, and I say this as a German member of parliament, are protecting the territory and the citizens of my country.
I think that we in this European Parliament owe it to the relatives of the victims to acknowledge that respect for the dead is not an Italian but a European matter.
The second is a political challenge which, in my view, we are not taking seriously enough.
However, we hope that the Council and the Commission will be able to mobilise these governments through their endeavours and that an effective action of this kind will be instigated at the Conference scheduled for 19 and 20 May, in which both institutions are to take part.
Mr President, the Tampere Summit last year took note of the extremely difficult situation of some of the regions of Europe, and set the date for the forthcoming Conference of 19 and 20 May next which is on the very subject of the security and development of this area.
On the one hand, it is only natural - and I was the rapporteur for enlargement to the east and internal security - that we need to worry about higher security standards, not only in the candidate countries, as we do in the EU itself, but of course in all other European countries.
We are therefore against point 4 of the joint resolution which names Montenegro.
Of course, Montenegro also has internal security problems, as we do in the EU for that matter.
Mr President, I consider the consensus reached in this Chamber on the need for a new initiative to fight organised crime very important, in particular because of the realisation which spread from the Group on behalf of which I am speaking, that the dramatic events in Brindisi are not just an issue which is confined to the Region of Puglia, but that they draw on values, principles and objectives which are an integral part of the new European policy and on the question of justice and security for the citizens of the Union.
After all, security is one of Europe' s objectives in the Treaty of Amsterdam and was on the agenda of the European Council held in Tampere in the autumn of 1999.
We share the preoccupation expressed in the resolution as to the risk of seeing the reconstruction and development efforts in the context of the Stability Pact being jeopardised by international criminal networks that engage mainly in trafficking in human beings, trafficking in drugs and arms as well as in smuggling of goods.
As you are aware, the European Council has shown its strong determination to fight against organised crime and has demonstrated the need for a coherent and coordinated approach by adopting in June 1997 an Action Plan to Combat Organised Crime.
Although many actions envisaged aim to encourage cooperation between the fifteen Member States, the plan does not neglect the need also to develop wider forms of international cooperation.
The tangible result has been the conclusion by the Council in 1998 of the Pre-accession Pact on cooperation against crime with the candidate countries.
As regards the specific question raised by the resolution and related to the situation in the Balkans, the Commission agrees that there is a real danger of massive development of organised crime activities if no coherent and coordinated action is set up in this region associating the various donors as well as the international and regional actors.
The Commission considers that the Member States have a crucial role to play in providing their expertise and human resources in supporting specialised projects in the fight against various criminal activities in the Balkan region, including the fight against corruption.
The Commission remains convinced of the crucial importance of making all the necessary efforts to support effective measures for the fight organised crime and is determined to develop, within this new framework, regional projects covering the field of justice and home affairs.
In addition, the Commission is already in a position to announce that, under its programming of the assistance envelope of regional programmes for 2000, around EUR 2 m have been earmarked for projects within the field of justice and home affairs.
Furthermore, as regards trafficking in certain goods such as the smuggling of cigarettes, and insofar as this traffic also affects the Community's territory and its financial interests, OLAF has set up multi-disciplinary and multinational task groups.
These groups work to combat organised crime whose transnational dimension has been demonstrated on several occasions.
In 1996, for instance, cigarette smuggling, mainly in the transit regime, totalled ECU 800 m.
The overall financial impact of fraud detected in this area in 1997 was an estimated ECU 1.6 bn covering Community own resources and national revenue.
All in all we take these threats to the Community very seriously and will continue working hard to fight them.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Over the years, this Convention, with its 148 signatories, has saved many plants and animals threatened with extinction.
Once again, it seems unlikely that the correct decisions will be taken at the CITES meeting in Nairobi and once again, we will be stepping in to prevent the wrong decisions from being taken.
In this intervention, I would like to focus on three risks.
The first risk concerns the fact that a number of southern African countries have proposed moving the African elephant from appendix I to appendix II, which means that the controlled hunt will be allowed.
Together, these countries would like to harvest more than 50 tonnes of ivory.
As this species mainly lays its eggs in Cuba, people think that there are plenty of them and would like to kill 500 of these tortoises per annum, only to serve them up at exclusive restaurants, with the shells being sold off to Japan.
In a nutshell, these are three examples from a series of proposals in Nairobi which cause us great concern.
Mr President, as the previous speaker said, this resolution is addressed to the parties to the CITES Convention meeting in Nairobi in April.
The first is providing information and raising awareness amongst the public, the buyers and sellers.
Although we may not be aware of it, huge numbers of animals are also the victims of natural disasters and especially wars in Africa.
Between 10 and 20 April next, the fate of this elephant will once again feature on the agenda of the world community.
Kenya, the hosting nation, and India have tabled the proposal to grant the African elephant full protection once again.
The Commission continues its diplomatic efforts to ensure that a sufficient number of ratifications are made in order to allow the Community to play a more proactive role in this important Convention.
Concerning the specific matters in Parliament's resolutions, we agree on the need to step up enforcement measures in the field of wildlife trade in India.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, I support the proposal by my friend, the very honourable member, Baroness Ludford, with pleasure.
Before the vote on Amendment 53 Mr President, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, I wish to withdraw Amendments 53 and 55 relating to paragraph 17 of the report.
It does indeed seem that the wording of these two amendments could give rise to conflicting interpretations, especially in certain language versions.
Amendments 53 and 55 called for the term "ethnic" to be deleted.
But I wanted to ask him whether he does not think the same problem could arise with the part of the first sentence of Amendment 54 that has not been changed and which, in the English version I have before me, reads: "stresses that the EU must collect reliable ethnic data as a basis for review" .
We spent a very long time voting on this.
Unfortunately, our Group was unable, for a number of fundamental reasons, to vote in favour of the Ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia in the European Union.
Most of our group therefore abstained or voted against.
Firstly: the Ludford report flouts and violates the underlying principle of subsidiarity by calling in points 4, 6, 27 second indent, 11 and 20 for measures such as the recruitment of third country nationals to public office or formal requirements to change curricula and teacher training programmes.
Secondly: the report deals with matters which have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of the report by calling in points 19, 22 and 30 for measures such as rights for third country nationals to vote in local and European elections.
Its absurdity lies in the fact that not only fewer than one-third of the members voted, but a statement was made about a Member State of the European Union, namely Austria, a statement to the effect that Parliament subscribes to the sanctions of the fourteen Member States.
My Group has therefore been compelled either to abstain or to vote against the report. (Applause) Mr President, I voted against this report because I judge a good bottle of wine by its contents, not its label.
Although we do not agree with many of the recitals in the report on countering racism and xenophobia, we voted for that report because it takes a stance against discrimination and in favour of the rights of minorities.
And I could give further examples of this kind of thing to justify our abstention.
We abstained on point 10.
I do not think this kind of resolution does any credit to our Parliament. - My Group and I are pleased to have voted for and supported the Ludford report which is concerning the important subject of the fight against racism and xenophobia.
We are, nonetheless, abstaining from voting in the final vote because we believe that labour market legislation is an area to which the subsidiarity principle ought to be applied, as mentioned in paragraph 17. - (FR) The Ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia, like the Haarder report on human rights in the European Union that is also before us, seem inspired by some malevolent spirit that is prompting them to go beyond the legitimate protection of the rights linked to human dignity and to methodically destroy, one by one, all the bastions of citizenship, regardless indeed of whether it is national or even European.
I think the approach taken in these reports is a kind of violation of our terms of reference.
The two reports also join forces in calling for the right of immigrants to vote and stand for election in local and European elections.
Another revealing point common to both reports is that they call for the proposed new 'rights' to be enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of EU citizens, now being drafted, on which I gave my views the day before yesterday during the debate on the Duff­Voggenhuber report.
We think it is important to combat racism and xenophobia by guaranteeing citizens the rights to education, access to the labour market etc.
It is also positive that the report should recommend that citizens of third countries should have better opportunities for integration.
As the report points out, we really must express "horror at the entry into Government in Austria of Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party" .
This open breach of the founding principle of our European Union, namely unconditional respect for fundamental rights, must not create a precedent.
Let me conclude by asking for consideration to be given, in the framework of the IGC, to possibly amending the Treaty of Amsterdam, specifically its Article 7 which concerns action against any Member State guilty of a "serious and persistent breach" of fundamental freedoms and rights.
The report we are debating deals with a series of points we fully agree with, aiming principally at guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the citizens of third countries who choose one of the Member States of the European Union as a place of work and residence.
It is especially worth highlighting the need to give the citizens of third countries resident in the European Union political rights, by granting them the right to vote in local and European elections.
In short, it is an abuse of the opportunities offered by our Parliament to debate and determine issues like this which are vital and important and deserve better than this approach.
It is against that background that this year, as ever, we are once again debating human rights in the world and in the Union, accompanied this time by a debate on countering racism in the European Union and the candidate states.
These pseudo-defenders of the rights of man have quite simply forgotten that man is not a concept, a point in a political programme.
The human being has a dignity, a mission that are far superior, if not contrary, to what is being put before us today.
The Ludford report is not an account of the good or bad situation as regards racism in the European Union; it is the political programme of an extreme left-wing libertarianism that, in the end, shows little concern for the natural rights of man.
Faced with these tyrants, the European Union is keeping vigil: since it is close to the people, and so concerned with their happiness, that it manages their daily lives, it will know how to promote new and hitherto unknown rights; since its foundations and the way it works are so democratic, it will know how to create this new Europe freed of all sin; it will know how to be the undisputed guide that can lead all its followers towards 'a brighter future' .
The European edifice will not be built simply by the addition of those who make it up; it will be the result of a concordance of views about its destiny and the ways to achieve it, or it will not be built at all.
Report (A5-0055/2000) by Mr Belder Mr President, the only reason we voted for this report is to reaffirm that we are opposed on principle to any form of racism, xenophobia and oppression of minorities, within or outside the European Union.
However, that vote does not mean we agree with all the recitals and all the proposals in it.
At the same time, we do not think the states that already belong to the European Union are in a position to teach lessons to countries that are only at the stage of applying for accession, given the extent to which the ignominy of racism and xenophobia is being propagated in most of the Member States of the European Union itself, by demagogues from the extreme right, even and including some within this Parliament. - (FR) The European Commission presented this communication on countering racism in the candidate countries in response to the request by the Vienna European Council of 11 and 12 December 1998.
I welcome the communication, which reflects the European Union' s resolve to help the candidate countries to combat racism, xenophobia and antisemitism with determination, and to satisfy the Copenhagen criteria relating to human rights, the sine qua non for accession to the European Union.
The profound process of transformation that has been under way in Central and Eastern Europe since 1989 has had its impact on the rise of racism, xenophobia and antisemitism.
This could be done through programmes such as PHARE (and more specifically "PHARE-Democracy" , now incorporated in the "European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights" ) and the MEDA programme for Turkey, which can provide back-up during these changes.
The European Observatory of racism and xenophobia which will open its doors in Vienna on 10 April this year must also make a relevant contribution to continuing the fight against racism, xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries.
The report highlights one very acute problem in the candidate countries, the problem of respect for the rights of minorities.
Pursuant to the Treaty, the Bank' s initial capital is fixed at EUR 5 billion while foreign exchange reserves are fixed at EUR 50 billion.
The ECB' s other source of income is the interest on its official reserves.
However, from that income the ECB has to deduct the interest it pays on its liabilities in euros vis-à-vis the national central banks.
However, in the event that interest rates vary, and to the extent that the source of income is highly sensitive to interest rate differentials, the share of income accruing from interest could fall very quickly and even produce a loss.
An internal ECB calculation indicates that the foreign exchange value at risk could exceed the ECB' s current capital.
The Treaty provides for a mechanism whereby the ECB can forearm itself against any erosion of its capital.
The European Central Bank can partially or totally retain the monetary income from the Eurosystem.
In fact, the European Central Bank will probably close its 1999 financial year with a deficit of more than EUR 200 million.
On 14 April 1999, the European Parliament endorsed an ECB recommendation on doubling its capital in the long term.
The recommendation under consideration today seeks to authorise the Governing Council to effect further calls of foreign reserves, raising the ceiling to EUR 100 billion.
So it is simply a question of authorisation in principle to increase reserves as needed, without being pressurised by exceptional events.
In this context it must be noted that the total reserves of the Eurosystem come to more than EUR 350 billion.
In the event of another international financial crisis, which remains possible given the irrational exuberance of the markets, there could be a need for concerted intervention by the main central banks.
To enable the ECB to be a party to agreements such as those known as the Plaza or Louvre agreements, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs felt it was clearly necessary to advise Parliament to vote for the recommendation.
We want the ECB to be able to pursue its main objective of safeguarding price stability in total independence - including material independence.
We are confident that the Governing Council will make optimum use of the foreign exchange reserves in the Eurosystem in the event of tension on the markets.
The European Parliament also assumes that the ECB President will explain the decisions taken by his Council when he appears before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and, indeed, during plenary debates.
The Central Bank has everything to gain from this improved transparency with regard to consolidating its credibility.
Mr President, I will close my statement by emphasising, speaking for myself and addressing myself to the ECB, that the ECB is there to serve the women and men of Europe, to serve the economy as a whole.
According to Article 3 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, owning and managing official foreign reserve assets is one of the tasks of the ECB.
The ECB is currently calling for a further increase of 50 billion euros.
We, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the entire Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, as the rapporteur has already said, welcome this proposal.
At first sight it may seem acceptable to raise the current ceiling from EUR 50 billion - in fact it is 39.5 billion because certain countries have not joined the single currency - to EU 100 billion, when we remember that the national central banks will still have EUR 300 billion of own official reserves available.
The European Parliament' s report seems even more alarmist when it refers in so many words to the potential instability of the euro which, according to the rapporteur, does not need to be demonstrated.
The Commission has adopted its opinion on this recommendation on 8 March, which reads as follows: "Noting the rights of initiative of both the Commission and the ECB, the Commission has agreed with the initiative taken by the European Central Bank.
The Commission has therefore adopted a favourable opinion on the ECB' s recommendation.
The debate is closed.
