rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very satisfying to see the culmination and conclusion of such an important report.
Examination of the harm caused by alcohol abuse gave an extremely bleak and worrying picture: very high mortality among young people, in particular as a result of road accidents, ill-treatment in the family, growing numbers of cases of foetal alcohol syndrome, increasingly widespread liver disease and alcohol dependence, among young people as well, in all the Member States.
The European Commission, which I thank, presented a communication focusing on a number of priorities which we have taken up while attempting to extend their scope through various key points: in-depth examination of the problem of consumption by young people, comprehensive provision of information, assistance and prevention, better public information campaigns making the community aware of the risks that they run when they consume alcohol irresponsibly, and examination of the problems of violence, especially domestic, connected with alcohol consumption.
The report proposes, and here it seems to have the support of all the European Parliament's groups, a blood alcohol content limit which is as close as possible to 0 for new drivers, in order to provide a concrete foundation for the strategy which goes beyond the simple statement of principle and the caution shown by the Commission in its text, even though many of the measures that could be adopted to counter alcohol abuse come within the competence of the individual States, especially measures in the health and safety field.
The European Union can try to stimulate, offer incentives for, promote and suggest the adoption of some of these measures.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work and the very good report that he has produced, and also the other members of the committee who have supported him and worked with him in producing such an interesting, useful and positive report.
Almost 200 000 people a year in the European Union die of diseases related to excessive alcohol consumption.
So the statistics are worrying, but we have to emphasise from the outset that we are not dealing with alcohol as a product on its own: it is the excessive consumption and the abuse of alcohol that are creating these problems.
It is true that we have to complement the policy of the Member States, as is stated in Article 152, but that does not mean that we do nothing.
It is also true that we have different cultures and different traditions in the Member States but, unfortunately, we now see the problems that until recently existed only in some Member States spreading everywhere in the European Union.
Binge drinking is now a main concern regarding young people, but drink-driving is also one of the highest causes of deaths among young people.
At the same time, it is extremely important to focus on the priorities, and I am glad that the report agrees with the Commission on the main priorities, as I said, especially regarding young people, but also pregnant women.
Unfortunately, it is still a problem in the European Union that we still have children born with problems because of alcohol consumption during pregnancy.
This will be seriously taken into consideration for the next actions because I can see that this can also be a serious social and health problem.
The European Union as a whole will work on two levels.
Firstly, there is the Committee on National Policy and Action, where the Member States are represented, and this will coordinate national alcohol policies and develop further policies, especially those identified in the communication.
Concerning the warning labels on alcoholic drinks, which I know has been an issue of great debate both when the communication was being drafted and in Parliament as well, we will study the experience obtained by Member States which are already in the process of introducing them and we will explore the possibility, in cooperation with the Member States, of developing official common approaches throughout the Community regarding this issue.
These are important aspects.
Responsible communication, responsible sales and responsible marketing are also important aspects, and we have what is provided in the audiovisual services legislation.
The Member States are the main players.
It is well known, and surveys confirm it, that warning labels have no effect in this case.
We also think information and awareness-raising campaigns are needed, to alert people to the risks of alcohol abuse.
We agree with most of the measures proposed to address the risks arising from excessive consumption of alcohol by young people, and with the need for measures to tackle the harmful social impact of alcohol abuse, particularly domestic violence - we know that the incidence of domestic violence resulting from alcohol abuse is very high.
In most Member States, the laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages to young people are adequate; the problem is the low level of compliance.
Member States must strengthen the control mechanisms and secure compliance with the legislation involving the business sector, in other words we must all take responsibility and fight abuse, but we must not demonise moderate or irresponsible consumption.
This afternoon we had a meeting, organised together with Eurocare, with a visiting specialist from my own country of the Netherlands, Dr Nico van der Lely.
He said that the number of people requiring treatment for alcohol poisoning in his hospital, the Reinier de Graaf Gasthuis in Delft, had doubled over a five-year period and that in children between the ages of 10 and 15 it had actually increased six-fold.
During the first half of this year a good 80 juveniles had already been admitted to the Reinier de Graaf Gasthuis in Delft as a result of excessive drinking.
It is important to have an ambitious alcohol strategy for Europe, but not to get in the way of Member States' own plans.
Alcohol abuse needs to be tackled energetically, especially amongst the young, and Europe must give the Member States as much support as it can.
So I think the Member States must face up to their responsibility here and do so at European level.
To my mind it could have been spelled out in more concrete terms than it in fact is, but if the Member States are prepared to agree this, then at least we shall have some kind of a clear-cut result, because I do not believe in saying that subsidiarity is important but then doing absolutely nothing.
In France labels now carry a warning against alcohol consumption by pregnant women.
If we have those results and it appears that labelling works, I think we should consider similar action at European level.
Alcohol abuse is now a social emergency among young people because it brings with it very serious physical and psychological damage, not to mention the victims of road accidents which are increasingly being caused by drink-drivers.
I would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for improving this outlook and for managing to give the text of this strategy a very positive direction.
I would like to stress the following points in particular.
In this context, I welcome and support in particular Article 7 on university students and Article 16, which makes it obligatory to include warnings on labels.
There is also the question of the message we want to convey to citizens with this text in Article 2.
The report describes in detail the measures that should be taken by the EU to reduce alcohol-related harm in the Member States.
It is also proposed that information campaigns be run at EU level even through it is in fact recognised that each Member State has its own drinking culture.
It is beneficial to exchange information but the initiative must come from the Member States and not from Brussels.
It is good for people as we approach maturity.
However, it can be bad for us, and that is what this report is about: it is about the binge drinking, the under-age drinking and the drink-driving; it is about the consequences of alcohol consumption in terms of the deaths of 195 000 people in Europe from accidents, violence, liver disease, lung disease, breast cancer, mental disorders, addiction, cardiovascular, foetal and reproductive problems and so forth and so on.
The focus on alcohol abuse by young people and children is important, but it would be a strategic mistake to pretend that only young people are affected by alcohol abuse and its adverse effects in the European Union.
Precisely because alcohol and the moderate consumption of alcohol are important components of our European culture - and that should remain the case and nor should it be criticised - we must give particular priority to raising awareness about alcohol consumption during pregnancy.
The social and economic impact of alcohol abuse on Ireland as a whole is almost incalculable.
We should also look at good practice in other EU countries, for we could devise a much better long-term policy to tackle alcohol-related harm.
We have to deal with the matter of alcopops and the use of special offers and other marketing ploys designed to increase alcoholic drink sales among young people in particular.
It would also be a good thing to put a warning on labels aimed especially at pregnant women.
I have played fair with Parliament since my language became an official and working language and I had hoped that it would also play fair with me. (Applause) (PL) Mr President, the resolutions that have been prepared and other preventative measures aimed at counteracting the negative effects of alcohol abuse cannot at the same time promote the consumption of alcohol advertised as being part of the European cultural heritage and lifestyle, as well as questionable WHO opinions about the health-promoting effects of alcohol, which are problematic, since the harmful effects of this product have been proven.
The issue here is the drinking culture and the promotion of social responsibility by alcohol producers in Europe.
It is our responsibility to reach high-risk groups such as pregnant women, young people and drivers through well-structured educational approaches.
Actions that I absolutely do support are moves to reduce to a minimum the permitted blood alcohol levels not just for young drivers, but also for persons working in public transport.
It is also worth considering one additional issue: the consumption of alcohol and alcohol dependence, especially in young people, goes hand in hand with other addictions, which combine and often lead to tragedy.
It would be worthwhile for Parliament and the Commission also to consider these other addictions among young people. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, alcohol-related damage is a growing problem.
Less well known are the serious consequences of drinking alcohol when pregnant.
So I urge the Commission please to waste no time in introducing measures to make health warnings aimed at young people and pregnant women compulsory.
Indeed, when the legal age for drinking alcohol was raised from 18 to 21 in the US, the most notable impact was on the reduction of accidents in the home, at work and on the roads, but there was also a 7% reduction in suicides.
In Estonia, our neighbouring country, the tax on alcohol is low.
Because of this, and because the EU prevents quantitative restrictions on imports, Estonia is causing a huge public health problem in Finland.
Finns can get cheap spirits in Estonia, less than 100 kilometres away, and that is stopping Finland from adopting what has been found to be the best approach, which is to impose a fairly high tax on alcohol for the sake of the health of its citizens.
Estonia's cheap spirits, its policy if you like, and the resulting reduction in tax on alcohol in Finland, has led to almost a thousand alcohol-related deaths in my country.
Moderate consumption of fermented drinks such as wine or beer by healthy adults is not only unharmful but even good for one's health and can form part of a balanced diet.
Consumers are entitled to full, truthful information on the risks and benefits to health of alcohol consumption, but the appropriateness of health warnings on wine and beer labels must be called into question given that they have been shown to be ineffective in countries where they have been adopted.
The best ways to achieve the objectives set out are good awareness-raising and educational campaigns directed especially at pregnant women and young people.
Finally, I would like to point out that the phenomenon of drunkenness in young people has gone hand in hand with a reduction in the per capita consumption of wine in the European Union.
It carries on the work that I conducted in my report in 2001 on young people and alcohol and its negative effects.
For starters, one accident in four can be linked to alcohol consumption, with 10 000 people killed in alcohol-related road accidents in the EU each year; 35% to 45% of traffic accident deaths are of young people aged 18 to 24.
Drink-driving accidents are even more revealing: two thirds of the people involved were between 15 and 34 years old and 96% were male.
Take the subject of foetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) or foetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD): prenatal alcohol abuse is the commonest acquired cause of mental retardation.
Mr President, overall I welcome this report.
My colleagues have pointed out the areas of concern extremely well.
I appreciate that attention is paid both to reducing the harmful effects of alcohol on consumers and on third parties, vulnerable social groups, such as children, young people and pregnant women.
We can also add to all these, social damage such as domestic violence, neglected children, unemployment and social exclusion.
The importance paid to education, to information and education campaigns in order to prevent the dangerous and harmful effects of alcohol consumption, such as exchanges of best practices at European level, are important elements in reducing the harmful effects caused by alcohol.
Alcohol plays a part in the majority of homicides, and it causes 17 000 needless deaths on the road a year.
In the 1970s 200 people died of cirrhosis of the liver every year in Finland: now it kills 1 000 people a year.
At European level we need to take urgent action to harmonise the tax on alcohol upwards.
The Commission's right of initiative is a documented right.
We must curb the adverse effects on health of risky and excessive alcohol consumption and its social and economic consequences.
A European strategy is to be formulated in order to support the Member States in their endeavour to reduce and prevent alcohol-related damage.
The same applies to alcohol awareness.
I support Parliament's report, which improves the Commission document in many areas.
The labels indicate the alcohol content.
For the purposes of achieving solidarity in the policy, the European Commission could discuss two important measures: to propose a targeted programme to be implemented by the Member States for a large-scale study of the impact of the use of alcohol and the impact of the awareness of this problem among citizens, and to establish a specialised fund for preventive programmes, where part of the revenues from advertising alcohol could be allocated. (LT) The battle against the harmful effects of alcohol is as old as time.
However, the Commission Communication on an EU strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol related harm is a very important initiative.
It is believed that implementation of the important priorities introduced, such as the protection of young people, children and unborn babies, the prevention of drinking when driving and other restrictions will make our society more responsible, healthy and abstemious.
It is a poison and even small quantities affect health.
The Commission is taking the right approach to the problem.
That is why I believe it is important for us in Europe to know what we are actually talking about.
One is the fact that growing numbers of young people begin to drink at a very early age, which causes very serious harm.
Each country's efforts to work with restrictive measures are undermined or made impossible when alcohol may in principle be freely imported from other countries.
A recent study shows that the number of sudden alcohol-related deaths has clearly increased since the tax on alcohol was reduced in 2004 and consumption began to rise sharply.
The rise was 17% up on the figures for 2003, and that does not take account of the other consequences.
Our public health problems are so serious that we are once again compelled to raise taxes.
At one time I myself simply proposed disobedience on the part of individual Member States, which is to say restricting imports after the transition period had ended, on the grounds of Article 30 or 95 of the Treaty.
It is necessary to keep pointing out, to young people in particular, that even regular consumption of beer leads to alcohol addiction that is no less serious than the alcohol addiction caused by wine or spirits.
It is terrible that people keep on frivolously underestimating the seriousness of liver disease, which can result often in cirrhosis and frequently in death.
It is surprising how little attention is paid to informing pregnant women about this in many Member States.
There are not many approaches for reducing the harmful effects of the dangerous and noxious consumption on children and pregnant women.
In this case it is necessary that article 16 of the report encourage the approach of innovative means of disseminating information and awareness-raising related to alcohol consumption.
The European Parliament must put forward a resolution without any ambiguity, to give some time to draw up other information and awareness-raising methods so that it provides the Member States with an efficient framework for combating abusive alcohol consumption and promoting moderate and responsible alcohol consumption.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I should also like to thank all the Members for a very interesting debate.
In this day and age the solutions are much more complicated, and we must come up with a different approach.
We are to complement Member States and support them in their policies, but that does not mean that there is no role for the European Union, as was reflected in the report and what Members have said.
However, at the same time, as has already been said, legislation exists in the Member States on many of these aspects.
Therefore, putting pressure on the Member States will help us to achieve positive results.
No matter what each side expected, we should not underestimate the importance of the fact that, for the first time, we have acknowledged at European level that there is a problem regarding alcohol-related harm, that there should be a European strategy - which has been adopted today - and that we now have a European debate, a European initiative and European action.
This is important.
They exist everywhere in the European Union.
