The delegation from New Zealand consists of five members of the country's House of Representatives.
New Zealand and the European Union are closely joined together by common values, faith in democratic institutions and the decisive role played by parliamentary democracy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on market abuses is important for several reasons.
It is the first directive to be adopted under what is known as the Lamfalussy procedure.
The Commission will pass this secondary legislation on the basis of proposals by the Committee of European Securities Regulators, known as CESR in English.
The CESR will draft its proposals on the basis of broad public consultation.
The Commission will also adopt the implementing regulations in a transparent way.
The Ecofin Council and the European Parliament will monitor the Commission.
For the future, in order to provide the possibility both of giving secondary legislation more regulations of a technical nature and of providing colegislators with final decision-making rights, a 'call-back' procedure, amending Article 202 of the Treaty, absolutely must be provided for.
The aim of the directive is to lay down the same rules for all financial products throughout the Union, in order to combat all forms of insider dealing and market abuse.
At first reading, Parliament adopted 77 amendments.
The Council accepted 60 of these in full and 10 in part.
This is clearly a success for Parliament.
I also address my thanks to my colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, especially Mr Thomas Mann.
The new rules will certainly help to restore confidence in the integrity of the financial markets.
Since the bursting of the speculative bubble over the stock markets and the financial scandals that have hit both the United States and Europe, many investors are hesitant.
Since the beginning of 2000, more than USD 7 trillion of virtual stock exchange profits have also been wiped off the market.
This situation destabilises economies, penalises savers, weakens investment funds and lowers the value of pension funds.
In order to restore the confidence of investors and small savers in the financial markets, we must combat all forms of criminal connivance, forcing companies to be as transparent as possible.
Many financial analysts have been both judge and accused.
One example is that the CEOs of the twenty-five largest American companies to have declared themselves bankrupt in the last 18 months had awarded themselves, in the three years preceding their company's bankruptcy, packages totalling around USD 3.3 billion.
The sole aim of the directive is to better regulate the financial markets.
Unfortunately, some parts of the press, especially in the United Kingdom, have launched a sometimes incredible campaign against the Commission's proposals, suggesting that the very freedom of the press was at stake.
The freedom of the press has not been in any danger and nor will it be.
The first article clearly states that no journalist can be held responsible for disseminating false or misleading information, unless that journalist is gaining any advantage or profit from divulging such information.
Some recent scandals, from the Daily Mirror to the Magazine des actionnaires, show that no profession is entirely honest.
This is why I ask you to reject the two strangely identical amendments tabled on this matter.
Once again, it is not the CESR that will establish the rules but the Commission, under the democratic control of the Council and Parliament.
I can assure you, Mr President, that I shall be the first, and not the only one, to oppose any attack on the freedom of the press or against any unworkable over-regulation.
European law must, however, be the same for everyone.
Every democrat and, consequently, every journalist worthy of the name should welcome this crucial principle.
As we all know, he has been working under heavy pressure.
I should also like to thank the shadow rapporteur and Members of this Parliament and, in particular, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their readiness to proceed as quickly as possible.
After all the discussions we have had on comitology in the past, let me highlight the successful cooperation between our institutions in drawing up this directive, the first to apply the Lamfalussy approach in full.
As Mr Goebbels knows, the Commission is in favour of amending Articles 202 and 211 of the Treaty to bring the positions of Parliament and the Council into line.
The directive will indeed enhance investor protection and make European financial markets more secure and attractive in future.
It will dispel the international concerns expressed over the last few years about insider dealing and manipulation on European markets.
As we are all aware, recent events have shown how important these issues are.
The directive guarantees freedom of expression and the liberty of the media.
That is clearly expressed in the recitals, and the text of the directive itself introduces several safeguards for journalists, including the possibility of self-regulation.
However, recent scandals in several Member States have shown how recommendations by journalists to buy or sell a specific share can influence its market price to their advantage.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments 6 and 7.
In addition, completely or partially excluding journalists from the scope of the directive would mean harmonising the definition of 'journalist' at Community level, not a very easy task and something we do not wish to do.
Therefore, Amendment 5 is a compromise proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for today's plenary.
So the Commission can agree with Amendments 1 to 5, but we cannot agree, for the reasons which I have already explained, to Amendments 6 and 7.
Should Parliament adopt the common position together with Amendments 1 to 5 and reject Amendments 6 and 7, for which I am now making a plea, I hope the Council will be able finally to accept this text in the next few weeks.
I recommend adoption of this directive to Parliament and I hope that all who take part in the debate will agree with Mr Goebbels and myself.
As the PPE-DE Group's shadow rapporteur on the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, I had a hand in a number of the amendments.
At first reading, Parliament submitted 77 amendments, to the quality of which the Council paid tribute by adopting almost 60 in their entirety and giving partial approval to 10 more.
The question of how financial journalists who recommend investments to the public should be obliged to disclose their conflicts of interest - to which Commissioner Bolkestein has just referred - provided substantial material for debate.
Yet it should be in the interests of journalists themselves to make a distinction between their reputable and less reputable colleagues.
The Commission called on it, as an independent institution, to play an advisory role.
Commissioner, on that you have my forthright support.
The recommendation for second reading on a directive on market abuse, which we are considering today, is both timely and appropriate.
It is timely because confidence in the integrity of market participants has been seriously damaged over the last two years as a result of various cases of market abuse, chiefly in the United States.
It is appropriate because the common position addresses the need for regulatory authorities to have sufficient enforcement flexibility to be able to detect market abuse and sanction its practitioners on a consistent and effective basis.
The fact that we now have a debate with so few amendments tabled nearly 18 months after the initial proposal, when the financial services industry initially questioned whether there was any need for such a proposal, owes much to the skill and patience of our rapporteur, Mr Goebbels.
We have obtained an appropriate definition of market manipulation and of financial instruments whose use falls within the scope of the directive.
It actually gives the Commission and financial regulators a role in determining whether information is fairly presented.
We should, in particular, welcome the fact that the pressure to incorporate the concept of intent into the definition of offences, a concept which is usually impossible to prove, has been rejected, and also the fact that we have strengthened obligations of transparency in the field of insider information and in cooperation between market surveillance authorities.
We are therefore in the process of breaking in the Lamfalussy procedure which has got off to a good start, I believe, with fine cooperation between our three institutions.
In any event, this was merely an excuse to redouble the pressure exerted by the lobbies of financial journalists who want, in fact, to create a general exception in their favour in the field of comitology; I am talking about self-regulation full stop.
In our view, financial journalists must indeed comply with all the provisions concerning transparency and the veracity of information and, with regard to the progress that can be made in the field of comitology, this will fall under a future revision of Article 202.
This is why we fully reject the two amendments tabled by the Liberal and PPE-DE groups and support Amendment No 5, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which further strengthens the guarantees concerning that profession.
Our whole economic system is based on trust.
The concept of interpretation, in particular, plays an important role in the debate about prior knowledge.
Events which have taken place in practice within Member States have led to regulations being drawn up in order to prevent or sanction fraud and insider dealing.
After all, in their day-to-day work they have to judge whether something is 'news' or prior knowledge.
I support, therefore, the recommendation for a second reading by Mr Goebbels.
We must therefore reject the illusion that we can use the law to regulate and guarantee the veracity of the information provided by economics and financial journalists.
Mr President, it is vital to have tough rules to prevent insider dealing and to punish those who abuse the market, including journalists and market practitioners.
But this draft directive leaves a number of very significant problems.
It is of very serious concern, as we have heard, to a whole range of journalists and media organisations across the European Union - media organisations that live or die by their reputation for integrity and a high standard of public conduct.
I agree that journalists should be subject to market abuse rules.
In the case of journalists, the rules should be enforced by specialist media regulators, who know how the media works and understand the issues that relate to journalists.
CESR does not have the expertise to regulate journalists.
It is vital that we respect those constitutional issues.
It is at least arguable that, in some countries, giving CESR this role would be unconstitutional and contrary to the principle of freedom of speech.
The free flow of information to the markets is absolutely vital in preventing market abuse and protecting consumer investors.
We need to use our codecision power to send a clear message to CESR that we will stand up for the prerogatives and powers of the only elected EU institution and support Amendment 7.
The draft directive on market abuse that we are discussing today is one step in the right direction.
Investor confidence is crucial for the successful development of our financial services markets.
Like some other colleagues, however, I am worried about some proposals whose basic intention might be good and respectable but whose effects would be devastating.
I believe that there must be tough rules in place to prevent conflicts of interest among financial journalists.
The European Parliament did not address the issues raised by Article 6(5) at first reading because it was widely believed that the Article was targeted at financial analysts employed by investment firms where well-publicised abuses have occurred.
As explained above, the recent amendment to Article 6(10) by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is insufficient, as the CESR would still be able to override or amend these mechanisms.
The proposals would have an adverse impact on media freedom and on journalistic independence.
They are the investors in the European Parliament should be trying to protect.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking those Members, from all the groups, but especially those belonging to my own, who worked on this report in our committee, and who demonstrated commitment, expertise and passion - which have also been apparent in this debate - in tackling this important topic.
This directive is the first under the new comitology procedure.
It is a response to 11 September, because the directive is what the Member States want in order to be better able to take counter-terrorist action.
We have to build up confidence in the financial services sector, in the financial markets and in the economy.
This directive helps to do that by safeguarding the integrity of the European financial markets, establishing rules for combating market abuse in Europe, and strengthening investors' confidence in the European financial market.
I would like to say, though, that we have not made it easier for ourselves, as this debate itself shows.
Let me point out, though, that this is not a directive on journalists, but one on insider dealing and market manipulation.
This directive is not to exclude anyone, but it does have to deal with the differences in quality.
We should not expect this House to come to a decision that promotes censorship and infringes fundamental rights and freedoms.
That is the basis of our political work.
I hope that the future will see politicians, policies, and even the Commission, judged on the basis of what rules and directives they have abolished or unified, rather than the opposite.
Arthur Andersen also had a good reputation until that business was struck by disaster.
I believe that we owe a duty to the public to address problems and find approaches towards a solution even in sensitive areas.
The only thing the directive says is that, when they recommend to the public certain stocks in which they themselves have invested, they must state that fact.
In other words, if financial journalists advise the public to buy shares in a certain company and if they themselves own shares in that company, they must declare how many shares they own.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
I shall limit myself to pointing out the most important, namely the first phase of the internal market, increasing use of natural gas - which also reflects our concern for improved environmental protection - the setting of more ambitious objectives with regard to the use of renewable energy sources and, lastly, the prospects that have now been confirmed with regard to the enlargement of the Union.
The Commission proposal reflects these events in the priorities of our energy network policy and in the other provisions of the guidelines.
The most important element of our proposal is the establishment of twelve priority axes for the development of the energy networks, in order to integrate them fully at European level.
I am pleased to note that the Barcelona European Council gave its approval to the swift implementation of these projects and clearly recognised their political importance for the European Union as a whole.
I would like to remind you that, in addition to the proposals for a revision of the guidelines for transport and energy networks, the Commission has also proposed to adapt certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure with regard to financial aid for these networks.
In this context, the Commission has suggested the possibility of granting more financial aid, specifically up to 20% of the priority energy network projects.
A large number of projects of interest to the candidate countries already appear in this proposal.
As far as possible, the Commission will present a proposal in this regard.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have briefly summed up the Commission's objectives in presenting this proposal and I eagerly await the debate on this matter.
The revised proposal takes account of the liberalisation of the energy markets, the increasing external dependence on energy and the stricter requirements to get sustainable sources of energy accepted.
Member States will give special support and attention to these projects.
The maximum percentage for co-financing will be increased from 10% to 20% and from now on the construction phase will take precedence.
In my opinion, a massive subsidy for the energy sector is not a good solution because I feel that it is at variance with the current trend towards liberalisation and the creation of a competitive internal market.
In my opinion, these will contribute in future to the diversification of energy sources and thus as such to the continuity of energy provision within the European Union.
I would like to clearly point out that Community aid must be applied pragmatically and that, in the first instance, accountability must be given to the energy sector itself.
All candidate countries have huge problems with regard to their electricity transmission networks.
The Commission's contribution, which in the end is the European taxpayer's money, must not be raised from 10% to 20%.
The solution to the problem of bottlenecks is to be found in the Member States rather than in this EU programme.
There have been a lot of problems when constructing power lines as a result of the way in which decisions have been made at local and regional level.
The supplementary role renewable energy sources play in basic production is a part of the European energy palette.
The network and production must be kept separate.
The Commission should set its targets higher and insist on a level of 20% for all Member States.
We adopted our first reading here in plenary on 13 March, after the Council urged us to get a move on.
Secondly, I really do think the Commission was right in this context to suggest - and our resolution should reflect this - that strategically important projects in the trans-European energy network sector should be given top priority.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too first want to thank Mr Beysen for his excellent report.
This is to be supported in order to foster the internal market in electricity and gas.
As has been said here, it is also important to connect the new Member States to the internal market in energy.
This point of view is also contained in the report adopted by Parliament on cross-border exchanges in electricity.
If necessary we must provide support for connecting the networks in these regions to other networks.
Following on from Union decisions, we also have to encourage the diversification of forms of energy and increase the use of renewable energy sources.
This security requires a diversification of energy sources and will involve major long term, not to say extremely long-term investment.
Energy is, furthermore, an important factor in land-use planning and falls entirely within the field of public services in the truest sense of the word.
We must in fact improve and extend the energy transport networks and, by means of studies and investment, support the implementation of the least profitable ones where they are needed.
The internal market in energy is necessary but what it needs more than deregulation is investment throughout the Union, especially in the least accessible and least densely populated regions.
Lastly, I wish to confirm the importance to us of renewable energies, of research in this field and of the public investment needed for its development.
I must also admit that I do not fully understand the connection that some people wish to make between this aim of developing renewable energies and a liberal approach that often leads to a quest for the lowest cost in the short term, without worrying about the consequences in the medium and long term.
To conclude, whilst remaining critical of the liberal principles that I believe are dangerous for Europe's energy independence and for small consumers, not forgetting the least-favoured regions, I believe that the Commission guidelines on the Trans-European Networks are a step in the right direction and, as they stand, I thank you for them, Commissioner.
We need to bring in measures such as divestiture in those countries where there are dominant operators.
Secondly, we must increase centralised electricity production, because that is the only way to make the sector more competitive in the near future.
We should spend them on gas pipelines, because that will bring more competition and security of supply.
This is not a good use of European public funds.
Mr President, I have taken the floor to inform the Members who will listen to me of the significance of an amendment I have tabled, Amendment No 22 to be precise.
The general framework governing the trans-European networks described in this proposal includes, of course, the desire and the intention to help the underdeveloped regions.
Some practical measures have been taken, for an important project has been included in the list of projects of common interest which concerns two islands in the Community - Sardinia and Corsica - specifically, the gas pipeline which will convey a considerable amount of methane gas from Algeria to Italy, France and southern Germany.
It appears that electricity consumption will continue to grow over the next 20 years but that the rate of growth will fall off or slow down.
At the same time the production of electricity and other forms of energy will go down in relation to consumption.
This practice has worked well in the Nordic countries, and even Norway, a country outside the European Union, participates.
I shall use this speech to request a clarification in the annex providing for natural gas networks in the ultraperipheral regions.
There is an extremely serious error that I would like to point out, even though, logically, it should be up to the Spanish Government to communicate this.
Section 'E.07' includes two new terminals in the Canary Islands.
One, according to the text, in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, and the other in Las Palmas, Gran Canaria.
We - and the sector - understand this to mean natural gas on the island, rather than in the capital, in other words, Tenerife on the one hand and Gran Canaria on the other.
Mr President, who could be against the construction and maintenance of infrastructures in the energy sector and the integration of energy networks of the countries that are soon to join the European Union?
Besides which, the aim of increasing interconnection between gas and electricity networks is not to rationalise energy distribution at EU scale, but instead to open up the entire gas and electricity market to competition.
We reject it, as do the tens of thousands of workers who demonstrated on 3 October in Paris for Électricité and Gaz de France to remain public services.
The various States or the European Community itself must be able to fund an energy transport network which is fit for the twenty-first century, whose management criteria are not profitability or the quest for profit for a few but which are to meet the energy needs of everyone and equal access for everyone.
These amendments supplement or clarify the Commission's text.
I shall provide the exact list of all the amendments and also indicate those we cannot accept as they contain guidelines which fall outside the scope of the Commission's objectives.
I shall concentrate, however, on explaining Amendments Nos 8, 10 and 11, which concern Annex III and, specifically, the use of the comitology process.
In the interests of transparency and clarity, the Commission proposes that detailed descriptions of the projects should be included in the aforementioned Annex III to the guidelines.
In our opinion, with this level of detail, this Annex should be considered as a technical Annex and frequent and necessary decisions to update it should be taken in accordance with the comitology procedure.
Mr President, I would also like to point out that, in any case, the Commission will present an annual report on the development of the trans-European networks and the progress made with regard to the projects and, if possible, the amendments made to these in Annex III.
First of all, amendment 662 on budget line B53004 (new) should not be subject to a separate vote because nobody has requested that.
It has been listed as a separate vote by mistake.
It should instead be voted on as part of block 4.
The amendments proposed reflect the announcement by Eurostat on 15 October.
Then we have two new amendments, because we had no amendments on pensions.
Finally, in Amendment 527 on budget line A200, the final amount should be EUR 147 529 904.
There is one item which has to be voted on and that is budget line A-3014, one of the A-30 lines about European masters' courses in human rights and democratisation.
That is actually a new amendment to the draft budget and should be voted on at the beginning.
I would also like to tell the House that, in order to be consistent with the resolution, I will ask the sessional services to replace the second part of the first paragraph of the grounds for Amendment 644 on Afghanistan by paragraph 26 in the resolution, so that there is no difference between the wording of the resolution and the amendment.
This proposes that the EU's total contribution to KEDO, which is EUR 20 million, be entered in the reserve, on the grounds that the North Korean Government has admitted it is working on the research and production of nuclear weapons.
Finally, when we come to category 4, I shall comment on two specific aspects of that category, but that is all I wish to say at this point.
Mr President, before proceeding with the vote let me draw Members' attention to the following oral amendments to heading 5.
Firstly, as the Council is now making a contribution to the frontloading operation, and given that Parliament will contribute almost EUR 43 million instead of EUR 40 million, which is what the Bureau and the Committee on Budgets decided on Monday evening, I propose that an amount of EUR 35 million should be taken back in 2003.
Thus Parliament's net contribution will amount to EUR 8 million.
Amendment 493, section - Parliament: a reduction of EUR 1.9 million on item 1100.
Amendment 715, section - Parliament: a reduction of EUR 3.1 million on item 209.
Amendment 514, concerning the Court of Justice: a reduction of EUR 500 000 on item 1100.
Amendment 516, concerning the Court of Auditors: a reduction of EUR 36 000 on item 1100.
Amendment 520, on the Economic and Social Committee: a reduction of EUR 236 000 on item 1100.
Amendment 522, on the Committee of the Regions: a reduction of EUR 102 000 on item 1100.
Finally, Amendment 523, concerning the Ombudsman: a reduction of EUR 11 000.
We are above the ceiling of EUR 72 million.
This 'asterisk' amendment means that if we make any more increases after this block 5, credits for Afghanistan will be reduced.
To maintain a separate budget line for East Timor - which is very politically important for the Timorese Government and for many others - a split vote has been requested on Amendment 674.
In order to clarify the vote, I should like to explain that the split vote means that the first part will include the amounts.
If we vote in favour of the first part, we vote in favour of the increased amount, which is EUR 25.5 million.
The second part of the vote concerns the nomenclature.
If you want a separate line for East Timor - which is the rapporteur's recommendation, authorised by the Committee on Budgets - you should reject the second part of the amendment by the Committee on Budgets.
Therefore, paragraph 8 needs to be amended as follows.
The figure of 40 million in the first line should be replaced by '42 690 000' and the figure of 40 million in line 8 should be replaced by '35 million'.
The Commission will respond rapidly and fully to Parliament's various requests and queries in order to encourage early resolution of the outstanding points before second reading.
That will obviously ease the problems in 2003.
Thirdly, the Commission notes Parliament's concern that neither of our institutions is sufficiently involved in preparations for possible Common Foreign and Security Policy joint actions or in estimating the funding required for such actions.
In that context, it is depressing to see that the EU's budget contains an incredibly large amount of unused resources and that there is a complete waste of money in certain cases.
This list of what we think are downright objectionable items of expenditure in the EU can be extended still further.
Another detail we have insisted on every year is that travel expenses for Members of the European Parliament should only be reimbursed in the case of actual costs that have arisen in connection with travel on EU business.
It is quite incredible that this issue can never be resolved, in spite of the fact that so many people purport to stand up for this principle.
I voted against budget lines B7-6312, Arndt 605 and Arndt 361.
In that context, it is depressing to see that the EU's budget contains an incredibly large amount of unused resources and that there is a complete waste of money in certain cases.
This list of what we think are downright objectionable items of expenditure in the EU can be extended still further.
Another detail we have insisted on every year is that travel expenses for Members of the European Parliament should only be reimbursed in the case of actual costs that have arisen in connection with travel on EU business.
It is quite incredible that this issue can never be resolved, in spite of the fact that so many people purport to stand up for this principle.
Indeed, the agreement on Europe's Financial Perspective, which will be valid until 2006 and which was obtained at such high cost to France at the 1999 Berlin Summit, must not be jeopardised in the name of enlargement, considering that the last year of implementation of the current Financial Perspective will also be the year when the CAP is reformed and that France will henceforth be a net contributor to the European Union Budget.
The vote on the special function of the two parts of Amendment No 674, in terms that the roll-call vote makes quite clear, merely continues the spirit of intense cooperation and solidarity that the European Union has demonstrated towards the world's most recent nation.
Let us remember the award of the 1999 Sakharov Prize, by the European Parliament, to the current President of East Timor, Xanana Gusmão, and the promise of assistance in consolidating the new nation, marvellously expressed in the European Parliament's resolution of 4/10/2001.
The processing of this specific budget line in Parliament rewards the attention, the tenacity and the excellent coordination between the Members who are best informed and best disposed towards East Timor, specifically the Portuguese Members from the various benches in this House.
The directive as a whole has an important role to play in creating a free and more efficient financial market demanding sound consumer and investment protection.
Behaviour of the type that has led to the succession of scandals in the American financial markets, as well as some forms of market manipulation covered by the directive, must be penalised effectively and efficiently.
This is crucial not only as a matter of principle, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, but also as a means of helping to restore confidence in the financial markets.
I have voted in favour of this report's amendments because they make a more effective contribution to the fight that must be pursued tenaciously against the darker side of a globalisation that has also promoted a new form of economic crime, along with distortions, cover-ups and manipulations.
In the absence of alternatives, we are, however, voting with the Group of the Party of European Socialists, that is to say for three levels of compensation. . (PT) I wish to express my support for the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, Giorgio Lisi, to the initiative of the European Commission, establishing rules for the compensation and assistance of airline passengers in the event of 'overbooking', cancellation or delayed flights.
The current situation has resulted in justifiable complaints from passengers, especially with regard to the disruption and trouble caused by delayed or cancelled flights.
However, we maintain serious reservations with regard to the Commission's proposal on air passenger compensation for the following reasons: 1) The Commission's proposal has not undergone a proper economic impact assessment, to determine the potential effect on ticket prices and consumer choice.
It therefore states that, as a rule, the construction and maintenance of infrastructures in the energy sector should be subject to market principles.
Although the rapporteur claims that the aim of competition and completion of the internal energy market should be implemented in such a way as to allow for universal service obligations, the options it favours for supporting the funding of priority projects, even in tricky areas, cannot exceed 20% and then only in exceptional cases.
Nevertheless, it goes further than the Commission proposal, which was only of 10%, but only mentions the construction phase, which remains subject to the non-distortion of competition between undertakings, which means advocating liberalisation in this field too and subjecting it to the criteria of economic rather than social benefit.
The proposal we are today debating and voting on, revising the guidelines on the Trans-European Energy Networks, provides for a redefinition of priorities for the Trans-European Networks (TENs) and identifies, amongst the projects of common interest, the priority projects of European interest, to which priority will be given as soon as funding is decided under the regulation on granting financial support to the TENs.
The category of priority projects encompasses a range of energy network projects with quite a significant impact on the completion of the internal market and which are designed to improve the security of supply.
I have voted in favour of this report because I believe that the approach adopted by the Commission of making greater use of the financial support instrument for the TENs (Trans-European Networks) with a view to completing the internal market for electricity and gas is, by and large, the right one.
It corresponds, in fact, to the report by the European Parliament, adopted on 13 March 2002 at first reading, on the proposal for a regulation on promoting cross-border electricity trading.
In fact, since such slow progress has been made in recent years, as the Commission states - with only 3 out of 14 specific projects having already been implemented - the rapporteur's suggestion to identify a new category of work is entirely appropriate.
This category will include a limited number of energy network projects with a very significant impact from the point of view of the essential criteria of energy policy, in other words, to complete the internal market and to strengthen security of supply.
I also agreed with the recommended guideline to link more closely the production of renewable energies to interconnected energy networks, thereby leading to a desirable increase in the production and consumption of these energies.
This resolution comes at a crucial time for world peace, in view of the imminent attack on Iraq.
The European Parliament feels the need to take a stand once again on this issue, expressing its full support for the militaristic policy of the EU, naming the 'fight against terrorism' as the main objective of the European security and defence policy and calling for full and fast implementation of the European terrorism law and other autocratic measures by the Member States.
Of course, it does not fail to put the EU on a par with the USA in its role as global policeman, accusing the USA of unilateralism.
We consider the reference to the UN Charter to be both extremely dangerous and revealing, accompanied as it is by the view that 11 September was a case of armed attack.
In Paragraph 6, the European Parliament appears to be saying that the legitimate right of a State which has been attacked to defend itself can only be exercised with the authorisation of the UN Security Council, which would appear to be entirely incorrect.
In the event of an attack, the Security Council can only pronounce on the collective use of force, not on the right of the State which is the object of the attack to defend itself.
In Paragraph 36, the European Parliament suggests that what is known as the 'pillar' structure of the European institutions could hamper the fight against terrorism, and this hardly makes any sense.
The rapid and effective EU action in defining its global anti-terrorist strategy (the European Action Plan on Combating Terrorism) is to be praised.
The aims of the global EU and Member State Strategy must be: 1 - to reinforce the principles of the rule of law; 2 - to strengthen democratic control - it is regrettable that both the EP and national parliaments have only been partially informed about measures decided on by the Council; 3 - to enhance the means of prevention and suppression of terrorist crimes.
It is crucial that the Member States have effective criminal legislation in place and adopt measures for police and judicial cooperation.
The tragic events of 11 September 2001 cannot be used to justify excesses or abuses that enable security to suffocate freedom and justice.
The resolution on 'Assessment of and prospects for the EU strategy on terrorism one year after 11 September 2001' contains several contradictions.
Amongst others, I would highlight, some of its more negative aspects: its defence of the militarisation of the 'fight against terrorism', examples of which are changing the current concept of defence to what is being called a 'broader concept of security', which includes 'pre-emptive strikes', such as we are seeing now, at the hands of George W.
Bush, confusing Member States' internal security missions with defence policy; the reaffirmation of NATO and of partnership with the USA as a framework reference for the EU in the 'fight against terrorism'; its support for the reform of NATO (its political and military structures) in order to change its defence alliance missions into an offensive alliance; its willingness to criminalise the action of organisations and movements that fight, sometimes by means of an armed struggle, against the repression with which their peoples are targeted, confusing these with 'terrorism'; the use of the war against terrorism to move ahead with the communitarisation of Justice and Home Affairs in the EU.
No country in the world is safe from the effects of terrorism now.
I regret to say that the attacks which took place on 11 September 2001 and, more recently, in Bali, have revealed the weak links in the global fight against terrorism.
Yesterday, however, all the political groups one by one welcomed the speed with which Europe reacted after 11 September.
Moreover, Europol was given new responsibilities in this field and a list of unstable States harbouring fundamentalist cells was drawn up, but, a year later, the terrorist networks are still there and we are witnessing more and more terrorist attacks. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The panic caused by 11 September 2001 has still not died down.
This means that more importance is being attached to NATO than the United Nations and that the curtailment of the rights of freedom has been considered more important than removing the causes which make humiliated people into terrorists.
I opposed two truly deplorable paragraphs in the joint resolution, but in the end I have voted in favour of it, because I believe that combating terrorism is crucial - it is the greatest global threat of our times - and because I do not wish in any way to contribute to sending out a weaker message in this field.
The taking only yesterday of hundreds of innocent citizens hostage in a local theatre in Moscow, creating a new drama, the outcome of which is still completely unsure, has actually confirmed all of our greatest fears following the attacks of 11 September 2001, the attack on Bali and various other actions dotted around the world.
Under the pressure of successive compromises, the text is too long and resembles nothing so much as a boring waltz or a tiresome tango, with steps to the left and to the right, forwards and backwards - to such an extent that, eventually, we even forget in which direction it is moving.
A resolute fight against terrorism is one of the fundamental political fights at the dawn of this century if we do not wish to reach its close in a worse state than when it started.
I, like many of my British Conservative colleagues, abstained in the final vote today on the terrorist resolution, since a number of paragraphs adopted were directly aimed at undermining the inherent right to self defence enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter, and the right, when there is a clear and imminent threat from a rogue state or terrorist organisation to the security of a country or region, to act pre-emptively under the same inherent legal authority.
On these we have distinct policies which are well known and differ from those of the majority of this Parliament.
In any case, what the poor countries need is not patronising charity but an end to the plundering and exploitation they have always suffered at the hands of precisely these large industrial groups and major powers. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (FR) Europe is strongly divided over the debate currently taking place on the future of the common agricultural policy.
Mr President, this is a question about the Eighth Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol dealing with the reduction of CO2 emissions.
Is an urgent matter because the New Delhi Conference, to which the question refers, is now beginning.
The European Parliament, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in particular, are very concerned that we should keep the Kyoto momentum going.
Firstly, how important is the New Delhi Conference?
We simply want to know what is likely to happen at New Delhi.
Australia might not have major CO2 emissions, but it could lead the way in South East Asia - a very important area where increasing industrialisation is increasing those emissions.
In the past, my colleagues have had increasingly uncomfortable experiences attending these conferences, for example the Johannesburg Conference on Sustainable Development.
The Commission is always extremely helpful and briefs MEPs as much as possible, but our delegations are not part of the meetings held by the EU delegation as such.
First of all, after Bonn and Marrakech, COP 8 is an opportunity to reinforce the commitments from developed countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and repeat calls on those countries that have not yet ratified the Kyoto Protocol to do so in the near future.
However, if you ask how important this conference is compared with the others, I can say that no negotiations on major issues of substance are foreseen.
We can expect the developing countries to remind the industrialised world of our obligations under the climate convention when it comes to helping them in capacity building and adaptation to climate change.
The European Union, together with other developed countries, wants to have an initial discussion on the process for deciding on further action for the second commitment period and to initiate this process in New Delhi.
The Environment Council also called upon other countries to engage in a dialogue on this question last week.
I can anticipate that the role of the European Union will be to try to build bridges between Japan, the United States and other countries which would like to push the developing countries to move towards quantified commitments for the second commitment period, as of now.
The developing countries are opposed to that and, of course, argue from a political standpoint that it is our role to lead the way, to show that we are serious about getting our greenhouse gas emissions down, before they will accept anything that could hamper their development.
So this debate will probably start, but we in the European Union have said that we should concentrate on establishing the process, because our first objective is for the Kyoto Protocol to enter into force.
We welcome the various points raised in the European Parliament resolution of 2 October and we will take them on board as far as possible.
As you know, the Kyoto Protocol will enter into force once 55 parties representing at least 55% of the emissions of Annex 1 have ratified the Protocol.
So far, 95 countries representing 37.1% of emissions have ratified the Kyoto Protocol, representing around two thirds of the world population.
The speed of ratification, and this concerns your second question, Mrs Jackson, increased before and during the World Summit in Johannesburg.
That is fine, but the important thing is to get the countries to ratify the Protocol and to make progress in implementing it.
We are, of course, in contact with the Russian authorities and we are closely following progress on ratification in Russia.
Our communication last year outlined a first package of ten measures with a cost-effective reduction potential of between 122 and 178 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent.
The Commission has already presented proposals for a number of these measures, including an EU emissions trading scheme, the energy performance of buildings, co-generation and a strategy to increase the use of biofuels in road transport.
Others, such as legislation on minimum energy efficiency standards for end use equipment or the promotion of energy services and on fluorinated gases, are in the pipeline.
But is true that some of our Member States will have to take serious steps to deal with the current trend when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions.
Transport has been identified as one of the more intractable sectors, with carbon dioxide emissions from transport the fastest growing, despite the progress made through our agreement with the European Automobile Manufacturers Association.
We decided, after our discussion yesterday, that we on the Commission side will do everything we can to see whether some parts of the round table discussions could be made public or opened up to Members of the European Parliament, but we are in the hands of a UN organisation, so we can only ask.
You will then need to ask the Council and the Member States whether it would be possible to participate in coordination meetings.
This issue will have to be raised in a more general context, because it concerns not only the MEPs attending this and other climate change meetings, but also other international fora.
It is important to sort out for the future the different roles and responsibilities of the Commission, the Member States and Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is no longer a matter for negotiation - it is a matter for action.
And I would say that, in terms of the EU's new political agenda, there is a set of three objectives in this field that must be achieved in the short term.
Let us say that, with emissions trading, we will be able to demonstrate that it is possible to comply with Kyoto at less economic cost.
The Commission has demonstrated its ability to take the initiative, not least in its directive on emissions allowance trading and in the European Programme on Climate Change, but I do feel that this is a serious political problem: where the Member States are concerned, we are seeing real paralysis.
With regard to the role of Parliament's delegation in New Delhi, I would emphasise the words of its Chairman, Caroline Jackson: the parliamentary delegation must be allowed to attend the daily meetings held by the EU representatives.
I should also like to put these issues to Mrs Wallström.
Even if these issues cannot perhaps be among those raised in New Delhi, it is nonetheless important that we make these demands.
I mean that we must seek equal rights for all citizens of the world.
I believe we are going to repeat ourselves; I believe we all agree that some matters should take priority - as the Commissioner said - succeeding in persuading Russia, by means of all the necessary diplomatic steps and pressure, to sign the Protocol would mean exceeding 55% of emissions, which would enable us to consider the Kyoto Protocol implemented.
I must say that, sadly, my country is no example when it comes to reducing emissions, but rather the opposite.
We need to put pressure on the various countries so that they continue to fulfil the commitments we have all undertaken, and there is no doubt that renewable energies will play a very important part in this direction we are taking, in addition to transport, despite the poor result achieved in Johannesburg with regard to renewable energies.
The need to instigate a debate in New Delhi on objectives beyond 2012, on means and mechanisms for sanctions and on conflict-resolution mechanisms, could be of great importance for the summit.
Mr President, I shall end by referring to the role of the Members of the European Parliament in these summits which - as the Commissioner so rightly said - should be substantial, but not because we want to be present in every single discussion, but because I believe we can be of help to the Commission and to those who are determined that the Kyoto Protocol should become reality.
So, ladies and gentlemen, how should we interpret this debate, which is being held after the opening of the Conference, if not as a sign of political and psychological immaturity in the face of the reality of the threats to our world posed by the upheaval of climate change?
We must ask ourselves whether the latest UNEP report, which revealed that USD 150 billion is spent on environmental damage each year, escaped the scrutiny of certain European visionaries.
There are three essential points we must uphold in New Delhi.
For example, Amendment No 15 to our resolution, seeking to reinstate it, must be rejected.
There is no more urgent subject for us and our debates than the potential future impact of climate change.
Now that we are preparing for New Delhi, the Kyoto Protocol is still not in force, however.
In my opinion the European Union can make a substantial contribution towards projects for clean development in developing countries.
Parliament has chosen to implement an unambiguous and well-thought-out system to be introduced in 2005.
We must also remember that Kyoto is, of course, just the first step, which is why we reiterate quite clearly in our resolution that all citizens must end up with the same rights, which basically means that per capita emissions should be the same the world over.
As we have been told on numerous occasions, all we can do is keep on making demands and ensuring that every meeting, at whatever level, between representatives of the European Union, be it the Commission or the Council of Ministers or us here in the European Parliament, between the EU and the USA, between the EU and Russia, addresses this issue.
It must be our top priority in our dealings with these countries.
The credibility of the European Union is, of course, vital.
I am sorry that the Council of Ministers has postponed its decision yet again and I am sorry to hear from initial reactions that important amendments which we adopted, for example on the CAP or on 1990 as the base year, may not meet with the Council's approval.
The Council needs to adopt a clear concept, and quickly, and we, the European Parliament, need to be tough negotiators.
Three minutes is too short a time to expand on the whole issue but I think it really is important for us to keep clarifying our position here in this House.
We have more and more global processes, not just now with Kyoto, but on other issues - I am thinking of the International Monetary Fund, financial policy, worldwide credit policy, environmental policy and trade policy - which are in fact decided solely by the executive.
The question is: surely, with increasing globalisation, parliaments could be more involved in the opinion-forming process?
Secondly, Kyoto must be ratified and that will be our main job in New Delhi.
We must convince our counterparts, especially our Russian counterparts, that this makes sense.
Thirdly, when we talk of reducing CO2 - and other greenhouse gas emissions, but mainly CO2 - we always mention renewable energy in the same breath.
It is just that, in New Delhi, we will be in a country that generates well over 50% of its electricity from coal.
Finally, I think that climate policy also gives us a chance to foster a new relationship with developing countries, in the form of emissions trading.
The Commission itself conducted a very interesting study in its institute in Seville, with a time frame of up to 2030, when, it states, emissions trading with Asia will be worth around EUR 80 billion.
Europe has to take the lead again in this discussion.
Our success or failure in achieving this credibility with our partners in the developing countries - for whom I realise, Commissioner, this will not be easy - will not depend solely on our environmental policy; it will also depend on whether we have coherent policies in other sectors, such as European agriculture.
In other words, we must ensure that the Member States deliver reliable figures on their emissions and on the flexible mechanisms.
Mr President, thank you for these valuable contributions to this debate.
I would like to comment on some of the points that have been raised.
Of course we raise this issue in all our bilateral contacts.
We are also aware of a study that has just been published by the Russian Government on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol.
We are currently analysing the results - hopefully we will be able to use some of them in our ongoing debate.
We are keeping a close eye on what happens in Russia, in order to be able to use the positive forces that exist in Russia.
There was one question on air traffic.
I am sure we would all agree that the work in ICAO has not been satisfactory when it comes to speed and commitment, but it also has a UNCCC mandate to work on the climate change issue.
I do not want to say to the European Parliament that it is a ridiculous idea, but my personal opinion is that it might not be the most sensible approach.
Now the Commission wants to set a threshold below which no labelling is required.
If we relate this to an area of seven-and-a-half or eight million hectares of rape or corn, 7 million plants seed every year.
We need a ruling here which clarifies once and for all - and this is also the position which the Committee on Agriculture has just adopted - that there has to be coexistence, that those who wish to use genetically modified organisms must ensure that those who do not are not brought into contact with them.
That applies both to the 70% of farmers in Germany who do not want GMOs and to about the same percentage of consumers who do not want GMOs.
Mr President, the questions are very important in the context of the current debate on GMOs in Europe.
In 2001, 5.5 million farmers in 13 countries grew an estimated 52.6 million acres with GM crops.
Between 2000 and 2001, the number of acres planted to GM crops increased by almost 20%.
In the US, GM corn increased from 4.4% of all planted acres in 1996 to 32% in 2002.
However, GM cultivation is likely to spread to other nations in the next few years.
So far Europe has played a very marginal role, with fewer than 20 000 acres of GM crops, mainly in Spain and France.
The last few years have shown that the adventitious presence of traces of GMOs in conventional products has become inevitable.
Storage and transportation practices may also make it difficult or extremely costly to ensure total segregation.
This proposal includes additional conditions and requirements concerning the adventitious presence of GM seeds in lots of non-GM seeds.
The Committee on Agriculture has been informed twice about the status of this proposal.
The Commission has commissioned a number of studies on this issue.
The main aim is to assess the consequences arising from an increase in the cultivation of GM crops in the European Union in the context of coexistence.
The Commission is actively pursuing such work before considering possible options to ensure the viability of conventional and organic farming and their sustainable coexistence with GM crops.
As a further step in this process, the Commission has commenced discussions in partnership with Member States, farmers and other private operators to find the most appropriate solutions.
The 1% food labelling threshold provided for in a Council regulation has been set by the comitology procedure provided for under the foodstuff labelling legislation.
Article 21(2) of Directive 2001/18/EC also states that labelling thresholds may be set in the comitology procedure provided for under the directive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too have, on numerous occasions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, bemoaned the fact that seed regulations are being pushed to such an extent under the comitology procedure.
I have said that I think it would make more sense if the Commission held fire on the regulation for GMOs in seed under the comitology procedure until Parliament has completed the current procedure.
There is a difference between releasing GMOs under Directive 2001/18, on the one hand, and setting a technical limit value for the adventitious presence of GMOs in conventional seed by amending the annexes to the seed directives, on the other.
These directives contain an array of technical rules and requirements on the quality and marketing of seed in the EU.
The registration requirements in Directive 2001/18 have nothing to do with the marketing of conventional seed.
The legislation in this area, which is currently being dealt with by the Council but which was dealt with by Parliament at first reading up to July, signals that we are taking this seriously.
If the Commissioner says that there are no clear-cut replies to these questions, which is perfectly understandable, then I understand even less why this is now being railroaded through here under the comitology procedure.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Mrs Figueiredo, who has had to leave.
This could lead to conventional farmers or organic farmers not having any choice.
That is precisely what the Council is currently negotiating.
Tests in Europe have shown that there is no contamination of seed of any consequence and in Austria we even have purity requirements for seed and I think that is exactly what we need.
Secondly, I understand that the Commission chooses the quantitative detectability techniques in order to define the adventitious presence of GMOs.
Parliament adopted the proposal for a regulation on the traceability and labelling of GMOs or genetically modified food and feedingstuffs at first reading in June, calling for a threshold value of 0.5%.
A tolerance threshold of 1% for the adventitious presence of GMOs in non-GM products is realistic.
In the organic farming sector, for example, there is a threshold value of 5%.
That means that products labelled as organic products may contain up to 5% of certain non-organic ingredients.
I believe that these actual benefits, not to mention the potential benefits, substantially outweigh any risks.
I would like to say to Mrs Breyer that we have looked at those concerns very carefully to ensure that we establish clear legislation - a clear framework - for handling both the potential benefits and the risks of GMOs.
The current Novel Foods Regulation will be replaced by these proposals and the scope will be broadened to give consumers a choice, even if the GMOs are not detectable.
Firstly, on labelling thresholds, the Commission can only take account of existing legislation and, for the time being, a 1% threshold is in force for foodstuffs.
This 1% threshold is provided for by the Council regulation, as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 49/2000.
As the recital of the regulation states, the 1% value best serves the purpose of establishing a tolerance level which simultaneously remains low and takes into account the necessary feasibility along the production chain.
The study confirms that cross-pollination and coexistence are issues that need to be considered in relation to agricultural production in general.
As I said earlier, we readily admit that we do not have all the answers.
However, what we can do - as we have done with other technologies - is to put in place a legal framework to deal with the potential benefits as well as the risks.
Mr President, the aim of this report is to call upon the Council of the European Union to fulfil the commitments it has made as regards the ratification and effective establishment of the European Criminal Court.
However, the General Affairs Council has assumed a very ambiguous position regarding the possibility of concluding bilateral agreements, following the offensive launched by the current US Administration in an attempt to obtain immunity for all US citizens across the board and the willingness to accept this demand displayed by a number of European countries, including Italy - something which particularly pains me - which, apart from being my native country, was also the first Member State to ratify the Treaty of Rome.
I would therefore like to stress how shameful it is that the United States should have gone so far as to resort to threatening to impose sanctions on the countries which have ratified or intend to ratify the International Criminal Court Statute, and emphasise that there can be no agreements allowing those who have debased themselves by committing crimes against humanity or genocide to do so with impunity.
That applies to the 15 Member States, but also to the countries which are going to join the Union and the countries with which the Union enjoys relations.
Mr President, the United States' refusal to ratify the International Criminal Court is indicative of its pride, but also of the ridiculous, hypocritical nature of the Court.
That is why it is unacceptable for the American Government to undermine the Court by trying to enter into bilateral agreements with EU countries or candidate countries.
I hope that the Council will embark upon a new dialogue with the American Government concerning the recognition of the International Criminal Court, which all the Member States and most of the candidate countries have now ratified.
Both parties profess freedom and democracy and the defence of human rights and the principles of the rule of law.
The United States' decision is wrong, and we must all regret the American measures.
We must therefore hope that the United States can be convinced to adopt a more positive line once the Criminal Court has in practice had the opportunity to show that it operates in accordance with the highest standards of the rule of law and does not allow itself to be misused for political purposes.
The Council of Europe was founded as a human rights community here in Strasbourg over 50 years ago.
For the last 50 years, the European Parliament has sat here in Strasbourg as the voice of the people, as the voice of the European rule of law and because we want to extend this rule of law to the whole continent, we quite deliberately set the idea of the Copenhagen criteria, democracy and the rule of the law, at the spearhead of the historic enlargement process, which is now approaching its culmination.
If we do not want the courts needed for genocide and recurrent crimes against humanity to be wrongly denigrated as victor's justice or one-off justice, then we need a permanent criminal court to which all are equally subject, large and small states alike, whatever the nationality of the perpetrator or criminal.
If Europe wants to take itself seriously, it must fight for this criminal court and must say to the United States of America that they are indeed our most important ally, but that just such an ally has a duty within the free world to take the law seriously, however uncomfortable it may find it.
We do not need more unilateralism in response to 11 September; we need to strengthen the rule of law throughout the world, which is why we are calling for fast, undiluted ratification of the Rome Statute.
Mr President, the last time we debated this, in answer to my question, the President-in-Office confirmed that agreements under Article 98(2) are compatible with the Rome Statute and indeed are foreseen in the Rome Statute.
It was a good example of how the common foreign and security policy works in bringing Member States together and it preserved the integrity of the International Criminal Court.
Mr President, in response to this interesting albeit short debate, I would like to say, on behalf of the Commission, that the European Union is, as we have already heard, firmly committed to the International Criminal Court, which it considers to be a critical development in the quest for international protection and human rights.
The principles of the Rome Statute, as well as those governing the functioning of the Court, are obviously in line with the principles and objectives of the Union.
It is reflected in the Action Plan on the ICC adopted in May of this year and the conclusions and guiding principles adopted by the Council as recently as 20 September.
As well as continuing to encourage all states that have not already done so to sign, ratify and adopt implementing legislation for the Rome Statute as soon as possible, we also encourage all states to respond to Washington's request for immunity agreements in a manner which is consistent with the Rome Statute.
The conclusions and guiding principles adopted by the Council on 30 September provide guidance on the ways to ensure that such responses preserve the integrity of the International Criminal Court, which is absolutely fundamental and vital.
The European Union also wants all states which have ratified the Rome Statute to be actively involved in nominating and electing the chief prosecutor and judges of the International Court.
The motion tabled by the Socialist Group, concerning the stoning of women, a frequent practice in Iran, which is even inflicted on girls of 9 years old, made perfect sense.
I wish, however, to ask the Bureau a second question: If we are going to look at the dialogue on human rights between Iran and the European Union; I should like the Bureau to clarify the precise meaning and scope of this debate, because according to the Iranian authorities and according to what we can read about the dialogue on the Internet, what they are saying is that Islam is being persecuted in Europe, particularly in the United Kingdom.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place immediately after the debates, at about 5.30 p.m.
We note the letter of 23 October from the Iranian ambassador to the EU, assuring us that there have been no cases of stoning in recent months and that directives have been issued by the competent authorities for the cessation of this process and are being observed.
However, I simply cannot understand why negotiations on a cooperation and trade agreement between the European Union and Iran should begin on 29 October.
Parliament has called on numerous occasions for cooperation agreements or financial aid to be suspended or frozen when human rights are being violated.
As far as I can see, this draft resolution seems to be remiss on one particular point from an editorial point of view.
We have proof that two of these sentences were carried out in the first half of 2001, but not for 25 September 2002.
Modernisation currently taking place within Iran is still not leading to an improvement in the human rights situation.
The backward and medieval practice of stoning still forms part of its criminal justice system.
Women are predominantly the victims of this inhuman judicial procedure.
The European Union cannot afford to isolate Iran.
Since our resolution of 13 December 2001, 250 people have been executed in Iran, and 75 the previous year.
It does not look as if the human rights situation is improving.
We therefore condemn the European Council's decision not to introduce a resolution about human rights in Iran before the next sitting of the UN Comission on Human Rights in Geneva.
We want to state clearly and unambiguously that this resolution must be introduced before the next sitting.
It is also a country with which the West has had troubled relations over a number of years.
They have also resisted the temptation to destabilise Afghanistan and have indicated they will not attempt to foment instability in Iraq in the event of Saddam Hussein's departure from the scene.
Iran's leaders, however, should be in no doubt about the universal horror felt by us about the barbaric and medieval Sharia punishment of stoning to death.
The practice of stoning men and, in particular, women, not only continues to be provided for by law but is frequently applied, as is shown by the many death sentences already pronounced.
As far as respect for fundamental rights is concerned, the deterioration of the situation in Iran has been pointed out and emphasised by a number of organisations as well as a UN General Assembly resolution and the most recent report produced by the Special Representative of the UN Human Rights Commission on Iran.
It is therefore imperative that, at all stages of the current dialogue, the Union makes clear that it is an absolute necessity that Iran guarantees respect for fundamental rights, especially women's rights, and that it reiterates the need for Iran to abolish the death penalty, the practice of stoning and all other inhuman or debasing practices.
A whole world turns in abhorrence upon Iran.
I would also draw attention to the fact that Parliament has its veto when it comes to acknowledging possible agreements, and this is something we shall use if the situation does not improve.
We will vote for the resolution on the table in the hope that it will put pressure on the leaders of these countries and induce them to put an end to these barbaric practices.
Now, he is demonstrating good will in the light of the trade agreement with the EU.
We do not need good will, however; we need results.
I agree with all my fellow MEPs who have said that we cannot enter into any trade agreement with Iran.
It would be completely schizophrenic, on the one hand, to say that we want to see a strongly critical resolution in the UN and, on the other hand, to enter into a trade agreement with the same country.
Mr President, I hope that discussions on Iran will take place soon in the form of a dialogue between parliamentary committees and that an association agreement will be signed and implemented as a result.
On our side, we need to show we are willing to acknowledge the history of this vast country, as well as its present situation and the natural and socio-economic factors which shape it from both within and without.
We need to set an example and show our confidence in the leaders and people of Iran, the charming, dignified, talented people of Iran looking forward to democracy and reform, witness the hope they still place in President Hatami, who really is fighting to bring about changes in their theocratic regime.
On Iran's side, its leaders must realise that the West, and the European Union in particular, will only open up to and work with the developing world if it respects human rights; these are not values Europe wishes to impose, they are ecumenical values and they include women's rights, which are particularly prone to abuse.
So let us continue and strengthen this dialogue and signal once again, via this resolution, that we shall not waver from our principles and values and that this will be reflected in the preparations for and final text of the association agreement.
Mr President, I should like to express my gratitude to honourable Members for tabling this motion for a resolution.
Naturally, the Commission continues to be concerned by the human rights situation in Iran and, in particular, by the persistence of repressive measures against democratic institutions, civil society and the media.
In addition, avenues for more direct and specific dialogue have been explored recently by the troika, as several Members said.
On 21 October the GAERC endorsed the strategy for starting a human rights dialogue with Iran on the basis of the recommendations of the exploratory troika mission that visited Teheran from 30 September to 1 October last.
Its format will be assessed immediately after the first session and could be revised, as necessary, in the spring of 2003.
This connection is at the heart of the political package defined at the June Council and formally adopted on 12 July.
At this juncture, however, it seems to constitute the most effective available means of promoting our attempts to bring about tangible improvements in the grievous human rights situation in Iran.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m., that is if the Members wishing to speak on the final item on the agenda make an effort to be concise.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing our sympathy for the Nepalese people, for whom the last few years have been one of the most difficult periods in their history.
In actual fact, this people has been subjected to a genuine civil war for over six years, and the reaction of the international community has been almost total indifference.
Over 5 000 people have fallen victim to the violence since 1996.
Nepal needs the rule of law, pluralism and continuing parliamentary democracy.
We call on the European Union, across the party political divide, to offer its services as mediator.
The Council should appoint a special representative for Nepal.
I hope the Commission shares this position.
We could start acting as honest brokers right now and make an important contribution to the peace that the Nepalese people have long deserved.
The current ruler is concentrating all power in his own hands.
Yesterday, another 25 were killed in various clashes.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is universally known that human rights are being violated in Nepal.
In August, the European Commission provided EUR 615 000 for a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Mr President, together with honourable Members, the Commission deplores the increasing number of victims generated by the clashes between Maoists and government forces in Nepal.
Observers believe that there cannot be a durable military solution to the crisis and that it is extremely urgent to end a period of political instability caused by endemic rivalries among the different leaders of various political parties.
Meanwhile, the Commission confirms that the funding foreseen for the planned EU election observer mission will remain committed until December 2003.
The debate is closed.
