General arrangements for excise duty (debate) The next item is the report by Astrid Lulling on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the proposal for a Council directive concerning the general arrangements for excise duty - C6-0099/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive, which is meant to replace the 1992 Directive, is above all intended to make the introduction, on 1 April 2009, of the electronic supervision of the movements of goods subject to excise duty - the famous Excise Movement and Control System - compliant with the legislation.
My proposal and my position as rapporteur are unequivocal: I am wholly in favour of this Commission text, which is clear, precise and based on the principles governing the internal market.
Many amendments proposed by Parliament already conform to the text of the general orientation agreed in the ECOFIN meeting of 4 November 2008, or go in the same direction.
I would repeat that there was broad consensus on the opinion within the Committee on Industry.
It was not just the Socialist Group and the ALDE Group as, at least in the Committee on Industry, it was everyone, given that my opinion was unanimously adopted, as I said.
I would like to make two remarks.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the main rapporteur, Mrs Lulling, and the shadow rapporteurs, Benoît Hamon and Olle Schmidt.
When talking about excise duties, we must remember that they are levied on clearly defined consumer goods and services: tobacco, alcohol and energy products.
The Commission proposal amends a text dating from 1992.
However, with regard to these excise duties, the political content should not stop at technical aspects, as already mentioned by my colleague Manuel António dos Santos.
By contrast, we agreed to lower these limits, following initiatives by the shadow rapporteurs, Benoît Hamon and Olle Schmidt, and also myself.
Therefore, the final agreement reached in committee was to maintain the limits at a reasonable level, namely 400 cigarettes or 45 litres of wine per person.
For the same reasons we oppose Amendment 68 of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which proposes to tax distance sales, particularly those made over the Internet, in the seller's country and not in the consumer's country.
If we vote through the Committee's proposal it will mean that the European Parliament will establish that tobacco and alcohol are not the same as any other goods, just as we have previously heard in this House, and must be treated differently.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the Commission proposal relating to procedure states in Article 10 that 'Member States may [...] make excise goods which have been released for consumption eligible for reimbursement [...] of excise duty'.
On this basis, Ms Lulling tells us that, as regards the conditions for reimbursement of excise duty, the proposal lays down, as a general principle, that it is for Member States to determine these conditions.
However, Article 10 goes on to say: 'provided that such reimbursement [...] does not give rise to exemptions other than those referred to in Article 11'.
Article 11 refers to exemptions for diplomatic purposes, for subsidising international organisations, for assisting the armed forces of NATO and under special arrangements with non-EU countries, all of which - I think you will agree - are rather specialised exemptions which, contrary to Ms Lulling's assertion, do not uphold the general principle that it is for Member States to determine the conditions for reimbursement.
Why, Commissioner, did you have this thought and, having had it, why did you not table it at the consultation which you organised in 2006 and why did you not include it in an impact assessment which you were obliged to carry out within the framework of the new principle of better regulation?
You must therefore explain to us why we should tell hundreds of workers that they will lose their jobs, especially in these difficult times; you must explain to us what this impact is on the internal market which is so great that you need to abolish at one fell swoop all shops at land borders with third countries, which in the case of my country, in Greece, are working extremely successfully and with no fraud problems and no impact on the internal market.
As far as I am concerned - as Mrs Lulling said quite clearly and as the IMCO said quite clearly in its report - we have not been given a convincing answer, which makes us believe that, for the Commission, this is something of a whim.
I therefore make an eleventh-hour appeal for us to vote tomorrow in favour of Amendments 63, 64 and 65, so as to prevent this bulldozer policy from flattening once again everything that is working in the European Union. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I shall make a specific proposal for the system of exemption of land-based shops.
Commissioner, you are introducing a general exemption for land-based shops which constitutes discrimination against these undertakings and has an important impact on the functioning of these otherwise healthy shops, which make a significant contribution to national communities and local employment.
I consider that allowing duty free shops to continue to trade on land borders would be a solution which is also in keeping with the Commission's own proposals, while controlling their modus operandi and stamping out cases of tax evasion would, as with all other shops, be the responsibility of the ports and airports.
In practical terms this would have meant that if a person went on a journey from Cork in Ireland to Dubai via Paris they would only be able to purchase duty-free goods in Paris.
Compared to the huge expense we are prepared to go to without any objections in order to save corporations, this exemption has only minor financial repercussions. - (CS) Mr President, the free movement of people and goods is one of the great achievements of the European Union but it does not function well in the case of goods which are subject to varying high levels of consumer tax between the Member States.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, from the discussions I do see a general support for the main objective of the Commission proposal, which is to provide the legal basis for the computerisation of excise procedures by April 2010.
I would like to make some observations in relation to the amendments concerning some of the more sensitive issues in the proposal.
Moreover, Mr Hamon, who now has other concerns, had proposed in his amendment much higher limits than those of the infamous social-liberal compromise concocted behind my back.
