I also believe that it would have been better to deal with this topic in a post-electoral period and not a pre-electoral period as at present. (CS) Mr President, I, too, welcome the fact that the European Parliament, with its ban on the import of seal products into the European Union, has followed the example of the United States and Russia.
So, after a lot of thinking, I have reached this view about this report: because it is obviously such a sensitive and important issue for a number of our voters, it should not be decided at EU level at all, but should rather be determined properly through the national, democratic mechanisms and procedures of every Member State.
It shows that trade and animal welfare are compatible and we should rejoice in that. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, (...) the Wallis report represents a step forward for the general protection of animal rights because it greatly limits the import of seal products into the Union.
Here too I would have liked us to take a clear position on animal protection, a progressive position, which shows the way forward, which makes it clear that we need alternatives to experiments on animals.
However, here there were obviously palpable interests on the part of industry - in particular the pharmaceuticals industry - and as a result my Group and I are very disappointed that we failed to ensure that animal testing and the barbaric conditions in which animals are kept are consigned to the past.
As a former Latvian environment minister, I have been concerned for a long time about what happens in this sphere, about this amazing cruelty towards animals, as well as the fact that this amazing cruelty is practised on an industrial scale.
On the other hand, I resolutely voted for the legislative resolution, and I am really pleased that Parliament has accepted the commendable decision by European citizens regarding this trading ban on seal products.
Thank you. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
With regard to the Podimata report, I would like to say that in fact we can support both the Commission's proposals and the report by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and also the proposals by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and other political groups, since as I see it, the main interests dealt with in the report are consumers' interests.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour.
I voted for this draft because I think that the scope of marketing standards for poultrymeat must be extended to also cover poultrymeat preparations and products, as well as poultrymeat in brine, which is being marketed ever more widely.
The objectives of the marketing standards for poultrymeat are to safeguard the stability of market prices in the sector, to facilitate the marketing of products and to ensure consumer safety and high food-quality standards.
It also aims to safeguard the stability of market prices in this sector, facilitate the marketing of products and ensure consumer safety and high food-quality standards.
in writing. - I welcome this report because it concerns an issue I have been working on for some time now.
in writing. - This legislation represents another example of how the EU is targeting the car industry and the way in which the EU usually seeks to impose grossly disproportionate legislation to resolve a relatively minor problem.
In fact, the majority of the amendments requested by Parliament, in its April 2006 resolution, were not taken into account, as is the case, for example, with the proposals concerning the possibility of the EP exercising its right of democratic scrutiny through access to sensitive documents.
I voted for the rejection of the Commission proposal on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities, as I feel it is unacceptable and discriminatory for this proposal to exclude self-employed road transport workers.
It was very important that the majority of Parliament voted for our proposal to reject this proposal for a directive presented by the European Commission on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities.
The proposal for a directive represented a backward step in terms of the current situation, both as regards genuine self-employed workers and 'false' self-employed workers, and as regards current working hours, particularly night work.
In my view it is an advantage for a harmonised social and employment policy in Europe that working conditions affect all employees equally.
We welcome the rejection of the proposal from the European Commission, presided over by Mr Durão Barroso, which aimed to exclude 'self-employed' road transport workers from the directive on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities, as a result of our proposal to reject the Commission proposal.
What we need is for the rules on working time and driving and rest periods to be applied equally to all professional drivers, including self-employed drivers, in order to ensure their safety and road safety, thus preventing excessively long working hours and inadequate rest periods or work patterns.
The report by Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou recommends rejecting the Commission's proposal for amending a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities.
In voting to reject the Commission proposal I voted in favour of safety on the roads, to rule out discrimination in terms of health and safety, pay and working conditions for drivers, and to ensure fair play for employers and employees in the road transport sector.
in writing. - (EL) I voted in favour of Amendment 54 because it is an important political message to the Commission and the Council.
The European Parliament supports the rights of drivers and refuses any competition between salaried and self-employed drivers.
This proposal would exempt self-employed drivers from the scope of the current directive and, for the first time in European legislation, we would have an attempt to distinguish between 'real' self-employed persons and 'false' self-employed persons.
The irresponsible rejection of the European Commission's proposal means that it no longer makes sense for the self-employed to continue as such.
Unlike salaried workers, those who are self-employed in the transport sector do not work on the basis of a labour agreement, but freely determine their own customers and consignments.
in writing. - (EL) The rejection of the Commission proposal for a directive is a manoeuvre by the forces of the 'European one-way street' in the run-up to the European elections.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of the compromise negotiated with the Council, as our interpretation suggests that the negative impact on Swedish hunting that we had feared is eliminated by the exception in Article 3(2).
Moreover, a clear majority of citizens are in favour of a complete ban on trade in seal products.
in writing. - I have been lobbied heavily by animal rights groups and constituents about this issue but I am very sceptical in principle about banning things.
I voted for the report on trade in seal products as it is based on two considerations: the ban in the European Union on the trade in certain seal products, and respect for the traditions and cultures of indigenous peoples of the Arctic.
in writing. - When I was first elected to the European Parliament 25 years ago, it was shortly after an 'initial ban' on the trade in seal products in 1983.
The decision of the European Parliament to ban the trade in seal products in the European Community is a step in the direction of bringing an end to the brutal methods used by some countries to cull these animals.
In particular this includes an exemption from the ban to allow seal products which are obtained by Inuit communities using traditional hunting methods as a means to ensure their subsistence.
I am glad that the European Parliament has declared its support for adoption of this regulation by such a clear majority.
The introduction of a ban on the trade in certain seal products in the European Union undoubtedly strengthens that protection.
It is also a source of satisfaction to the 425 MEPs who signed the written declaration on this subject.
in writing. - I am pleased today that we voted to ban the EU trade in seal products.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour.
The most important of the many amendments that should be made, which we hope are in line with the Commission's ideals, are: 1) setting up an ethics committee for animal wellbeing; 2) extension of the guinea pig concept to include various species of invertebrate and foetal forms in the last trimester of development, or to larvae and other animals used in basic research and training; 3) use of animals only in experiments for which they have been reared; 4) examination of alternative methods to animal testing to minimise the number of animals used; 5) assurance of the fact that the main purpose of Member States should be to improve rearing methods to minimise animal suffering; 5) partial or total use of anaesthesia.
The Parish report fortunately restores the balance, because I will not support anything that weakens the competitiveness of our industry or that provides incentives for relocation.
in writing. - (EL) The proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is directed more at the completion of the single internal market, at competition and at limiting costs in the field of research than at animal protection.
in writing. - I am disappointed at the Parliament's position on the revision of Europe-wide rules on animal testing.
In the end I decided to abstain on the final report.
However I believe that there are some demands that are essential if we in Europe are to ensure high levels of animal protection and I fear that today's result goes against this thinking.
I voted for the proposal on ship-source pollution as I believe it is essential to tackle this continued practice in sea transport, namely illegal discharges of polluting substances into the sea by certain ships.
We have therefore voted against it in the final vote.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and Council on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products (recast).
Any advert must indicate energy consumption and energy savings.
