Preparation of the informal summit of heads of state and government (Lisbon, 18/19 October 2007) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation of the informal summit of heads of state and government in Lisbon on 18/19 October 2007.
The informal European Council next week will be the twin-track approach in action.
So, to start with the Reform Treaty: we now have a text in front of us and this is a major achievement.
Remember how many said that an EU of 27 would never be able to agree a treaty text again.
One last word on the Treaty: political agreement by the European Council is an important step, but, as we all know, it is not the end of the story.
During this ratification process, leading up to the European Parliament elections in 2009, the delivery of our policy agenda for Europeans will be equally important in setting the mood, and next week, thanks to the Presidency, we will have a debate on Europe and globalisation.
Yes to protecting our citizens, but no to protectionism that can only impoverish them.
The paper is equally uncompromising when it comes to our values.
The meeting will provide an important opportunity to restate Europe's leadership role in the run-up to Bali.
The three representatives have decided to support this mandate.
Not because our dreams will come true with this mandate, but because it is the best that can be achieved as matters stand, with a view to attaining greater democracy and greater capacity to act.
Here the European Parliament - and this is the second gain - becomes a co-decision-maker on these issues, in order that in future, under this Treaty, the European Parliament will have equal power of co-decision in 95 % of cases of legislation, even in the area of agricultural policy and the budget as a whole.
Item 1: Article 24 of the mandate - data protection in external relations - must in my view be re-formulated, or it must be specified by a declaration that general issues of data protection - such as passenger name records - are not affected.
We should like all this to be resolved in one package in 2009, having due regard to the rights of the European Parliament.
The High Representative is also Vice-President of the Commission and must be subject to everything here.
For this reason the High Representative cannot enter office until the European Parliament has elected the Commission President.
The next speaker is the representative in the Intergovernmental Conference, Enrique Barón Crespo.
rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the European Parliament speak a variety of languages and we belong to different groups, but we are united in the same desire, to move the European Union forward by completing the Lisbon Treaty, a treaty that includes legislative codecision, the unique personality of the Union, progress in the communitarisation of internal and justice policy and external policy, and participation by national parliaments.
The Charter will be legally binding, and I say this because I believe that it is important for it to be recorded today, because I think that these are absolutely essential conditions for the European Parliament, sine qua non conditions for supporting this treaty.
Mr President, there is a point that is important to Parliament, and I think that I am speaking on behalf of the majority of Parliament, and the majority of the Member States, and very clearly on behalf of those that ratified the Constitutional Treaty, which we sacrificed in order to achieve unanimity, and on this occasion it is very important for us all to work together in mutual loyalty and solidarity in order to achieve ratification.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
rapporteur. - Mr President, like my colleagues, I agree that a political agreement is probable at the IGC in Lisbon.
But the thing that concerns us still, of course, is the quality of the agreement.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I would like to thank Mrs Wallström and Mr Lobo Antunes for their speeches.
If the roadmap fixed in June is respected to the end, until the European Council in Lisbon, the Portuguese Presidency will be able to secure agreement on the reform of our treaties.
For the European Parliament, and in the opinion of our fellow members Messrs Brok, Barón Crespo and Duff, whom I would like to thank most warmly, the assessment of the IGC is in line with expectations and the agenda set by the heads of state and government has, generally speaking, been respected.
If we support the draft Treaty, it is also because an effective EU of 27 cannot build on the rules of the Treaty of Nice.
Furthermore, faced with the misgivings expressed by European citizens, we have demanded greater democracy and transparency.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my sincere thanks to Parliament's representatives at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Our fellow Members Enrique Barón Crespo, Elmar Brok and Andrew Duff have represented the interests of the European Parliament superbly.
But we assume that we have a draft on the table which corresponds to what was agreed here in June and for which we all commended Mrs Merkel.
The question will then be whether this Treaty will be ratified in 27 Member States and it will then depend on the Members of this House, and we will have a fight on our hands.
What lies ahead for the European Union?
If we want to remain competitive in the long-term, if we want to defend what we have achieved socially in Europe, if we want to stabilise the economic base, which is the prerequisite for social justice, then we have to be able to co-exist harmoniously throughout the world.
But I wish you even more luck for ratification in the 27 Member States. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Prime Minister Sócrates must feel like England's Henry V before the battle of Agincourt: hostile governments preparing for a fight, intent on weakening, even perhaps vetoing, treaty reform.
President-in-Office, your Prime Minister must hold firm to Europe's red lines and he must deliver next week a treaty able to underpin a strong, responsive and effective Union.
So it is 'Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more', for what should be the final battle in this constitutional war.
One thing we cannot live without, however, is a definition of European citizenship in Article 8 of the Treaty of European Union, because citizenship is a symbol which, unlike a flag or an anthem, has a real life, real implications for over 450 million people.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, we cannot have two classes of citizen.
If not properly formulated, they could allow governments first to water down, and then to wash their hands of, essential Community laws in justice and home affairs after five years of dialogue and debate.
If certain countries cannot accept reasonable compromise, our message should be this: they should start thinking about an amicable divorce from the Union and cease holding it hostage to their own vested interests, for the interests of Europe must take precedence over these. (Applause) So I urge the Council, the Commission and our own representatives, in Shakespeare's words: 'Stiffen your sinews ..., Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit to his full height' in defence of our common interest. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, today we are facing the last leg of our work on treaty reform.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days away from the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference we are preparing for the usual night and day of horse-trading, as has always been the case, which will end up, as always, with a compromise tending towards the lowest common denominator.
Three of our Members participated in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference and followed the work of the jurists, but it cannot be denied that they failed to improve the transparency of the process to any significant degree, and although perhaps they succeeded in reducing the damage done, they were not able to make any specific improvements because they did not have the opportunity.
We cannot lie, though, and we cannot say that this is the best we could manage, because the governments have hijacked this constitutional process from us and have made it what it is today, and it certainly could be much better than it is.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, I will not go over our group's general assessment of the new draft Treaty again.
In fact, Article 8 of the Charter is devoted explicitly to the protection of personal data, yet this protection is cheerfully violated and will be violated in future too.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, the EU published the new draft Treaty at 5 p.m.
The right of veto and representative government have been cut in 62 areas as against 61 in the Constitution.
What is new is that 255 pages of changes have now been inserted in 2 800 pages of treaty, making the text unreadable for everyone but nerds - again, what scheming, lousy behaviour.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, besides the previous speaker's reservations about the resemblance with a new Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which is being rammed down our throats in a completely undemocratic way, the European Presidency has evidently made it a kind of prime objective to achieve a breakthrough on a common European immigration policy.
The least that can be said in this regard is that such a policy at European level, decided in none-of-my-business cenacles by means of the particularly dubious Commission and Council decision-making with which we are sadly already familiar, would be completely undemocratic.
Besides, in my view, the transfer of decision-making in this area to European level with no real visibility to anyone is not only undemocratic but plain dangerous.
The Portuguese proposal to 'channel' illegal immigration via legal immigration is too absurd for words.
We must not deceive ourselves and our voters. (PT) In my speech today, in my own name and on behalf of the Group I represent in this Parliament, I would like to express deep sadness at the passing of Fausto Correia.
We are sure it will stand its ground and that we will have a new Treaty before 20 October.
As regards the Lisbon Strategy, I must congratulate the Presidency and the Commission on having finally realised what we have been saying for ages: unless the Commission is awarded wider powers and responsibilities within the Lisbon Strategy than it was given in 2000, the Lisbon Strategy will not bear fruit.
Finally, the inclusion of globalisation in the debate at the forthcoming informal summit is a good sign, because the world in which we live today is about globalisation and we cannot imagine that the summits with Africa or Russia - and we hope they are a big success - or the debate on exchange rates for the Japanese yen or the US dollar do not come under the phenomenon which is globalisation.
Mr Lobo Antunes, I wish you every success with the informal summit which will perhaps be one of the most important we have had in recent years in the European Union. (DE) Mr President, fellow Members, I believe we should commend the Portuguese Presidency for the way in which the negotiations have been conducted: in a very dedicated and targeted manner.
Andrew Duff had talked about a self-serving mentality.
There is nothing more to be said on this.
I would also like see Mrs Wallström's request back again in the Treaty, namely that the citizens are given a right to receive information.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights must be legally binding in full and for all because the Charter of Fundamental Rights is the application in practice of our shared values.
Finally, I would ask the Commission and the Member States to consider, as soon as the Treaty has been signed, acting in the spirit of the new Treaty and involving the European Parliament as a full co-legislator on matters of justice and home affairs, and rapidly closing the democratic gap that we have been living with for so long. (PL) Mr President, Heads of State and Government are once again engaged in modifying the way the European Union functions by giving it a new treaty.
It would be a deceit practised on the peoples of Member States who have a right to decide independently on a matter of such importance.
I do not believe that what is happening here at the moment will meet with the citizens' approval, which we no longer intend to seek. (PT) Mr President, I would like to begin my speech by expressing my own sadness, as well as the sadness felt by my group, on the death of our fellow Member, Fausto Correia.
Finally I would like to express my support for the great demonstration promoted by the CGTP-IN to be held in Lisbon on 18 October next. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whether we rejoice or lament, everyone agrees that the Treaty to be signed in Lisbon is just a recycling of the European Constitution rejected by two referendums in 2005.
The Italian federalist Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa has already given the answer.
No election means Labour's 2005 manifesto commitment of a referendum must stand.
The British Prime Minister has a problem.
British Conservatives, of course, will continue to demand a referendum on the Treaty.
I hope that our Prime Minister will be straight with the British people on the issues that arise at Lisbon.
I want to be optimistic and believe that each of the 27 Member States will assume its political responsibilities towards the citizens of the respective countries, towards European citizens and towards the world.
I want to believe that on 19 October the European Council will conclude a political agreement and will approve the Reform Treaty, putting an end to this impasse which has existed for too long.
The IGC fulfilled the mandate entrusted to it by the Council.
The European Parliament did its work both within the IGC and outside that Conference, where our colleagues Elmar Brok, Enrique Barón Crespo and Andrew Duff made an invaluable contribution.
That means that to date all have done their duty with a great sense of responsibility and within the time allowed.
Let us hope that Europe is able to make history, to write another page in the story of the building of Europe. (DE) Mr President, we have been fighting with some success for greater democracy and efficiency in the constitutional process - now in the process towards this Reform Treaty - but the discussion cannot really be about transparency.
Data protection in the common foreign and security policy, greater parliamentary participation, the abolition of the third pillar in favour of a common justice and home affairs policy, the legally binding nature of the Charter, these are all subjects which are important even for the Liberals in the centre and based on our common values.
What I cannot understand or approve of at all is the blockade by a few Member States, particularly the United Kingdom, in the area of common foreign and security policy.
Timothy Kirkhope has just said: we should be developing policy where the citizens support it.
You will certainly remember Jean Charles de Menezes, killed in 2005 on the London Underground.
The European Summit should thus reflect deeply upon the ideas of European citizenship and democratic legitimacy. (CS) I trust that during the upcoming Lisbon Summit the final agreement on the wording of the Reform Treaty will be reached.
Its signature and ratification will put an end to the institutional crisis caused by the referenda in France and the Netherlands.
The ultimate objective of the European project and related questions on the borders of the EU must take centre stage in these debates.
The objective of this committee should not be to replace public debate but rather function as a catalyst for debate and come up with concrete proposals on the future of European integration.
More than 300 amendments buried in 150 pages have transformed the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on its functioning.
As a bonus, there will be 53 declarations and 12 protocols.
National governments, like night watchmen, can only decide on non-economic services of general interest.
Protocol 7 says, I quote: 'for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in Title IV of the Charter creates justiciable rights applicable to Poland or the United Kingdom'.
The context of the year 2007, when the European Union comprises 27 countries and the international scene becomes ever more globalized, forces us to question the goals, priorities and the way in which the European Union operates.
It is unquestionable that the European Union's actions in the 21st century should be based on two fundamental principles: democratic legitimacy and a close relationship with the European citizen, as well as an increased coherence and efficiency in its activity, including externally.
I would like to bring up two things here: on the one hand, we do of course need a workable diplomatic service, which must be located at the Commission.
On the other hand - something several fellow Members like Enrique Barón Crespo and others have already pointed out - we must make clear that this Parliament has been involved from the outset in the appointment of the High Representative.
The matter will not be settled - as my colleague Mr Schulz has said - with the agreement which will hopefully be reached in the Council and not even with ratification, but our citizens must be convinced during and after ratification that this Treaty will help them by allowing their interests to be represented in this world. (PL) Mr President, a few reflections on Lisbon.
The essence of a democratic system of decision-making is arrival at a consensus, through majority or unanimous support for some idea, where a frivolous veto is not issued by one partner in important matters.
The living and dynamic organism that is Europe must not be closed off within a rigid and universal legislative framework introduced by the current Parliament or Commission for good.
But, of course, we have heard from many colleagues today that there is considerable disappointment in this Parliament.
There is no way around the fact that this Treaty has to be acceptable to all Member States and ratified by all Member States.
This Treaty, even in this form, contains many vital reforms.
Let us move on and get these institutional issues settled once and for all. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Lisbon brings us yet another important step closer and successfully brings to an end the aftermath of the meetings.
However, Lisbon still does not bring us to our goal.
We should remember Denmark in 1992, Ireland in 2001, France and the Netherlands in 2005, and even Sweden on the euro in 2003.
I can suggest a date, Mr President: the first fortnight in May 2008, because this is the fortnight that saw the end of the Second World War, and sees Europe Day on 9 May, and this year it will be the sixtieth anniversary of the Hague Congress, which set Europe in motion, chaired by Winston Churchill.
For us, the French, it is also the election of a great European, François Mitterrand, on 10 May.
So I put this suggestion to you: agree on this fortnight! (Applause) (PL) Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam President, just as it did seven years ago, the Portuguese Presidency faces some major tasks and major challenges.
So a social Europe increasing employment and also battling against climate change, which it was not seven years ago, must be a Europe of a completely free market.
Elections were held just two and a half weeks ago, and it is worth proclaiming this in the European Parliament. (HU) Mr President, as has emerged from the previous debate, there is a huge amount at stake with the current Reform Treaty, since the operability and credibility of the Union are at stake.
There should be no more failures, because the 2004 enlargement was the first that was not prevented by radical reforms or radicalisation.
The new treaty will offer the necessary tools so that the European Union will keep progressing after more citizens have now joined in its midst.
Yes, it is important that everyone keeps national interests present, but it is more important that we keep European Union interests present because we all form of the European Union.
This applies not only for the Council, but also particularly for the European Parliament.
I do not agree that there should be a particular European Union for certain European citizens and a different European Union for certain European citizens in another country.
We guarantee that after long and difficult years of continuous debate about the future of Europe, we would have found the way of agreement that will lead us to continue to attain more success.
The European Union is facing important challenges that we must face as soon as possible.
We can meet these challenges only if we have a more efficient and transparent European Union. (PL) Mr President, I hope that the understanding that was reached in Berlin concerning the most important problems currently inherent in the Reform Treaty will culminate in a positive outcome during the forthcoming summit in Lisbon.
I also hope that the Polish government - bearing in mind that 80% of the Polish people supports our membership of the European Union - will see its way to final acceptance of the draft treaty, and will thus demonstrate that it understands the slogan of 'a strong Poland in a strong Europe'.
I therefore call on the Polish government to change its stance on this matter. (PT) The informal summit in Lisbon could bring to a close a troubled period in which Europe's ambition crossed swords with crisis.
The new Reform Treaty will not have the power to restructure Europe; that would take a European Constitution.
But it does represent certain progress in terms of Europe adapting its institutions to the new geopolitical challenges and future debate.
Non possumus, I am saying this non possumus in the European Parliament as a Solidarity activist from the period of military rule.
My view on intergovernmental conferences is that, for the past 25 years, we have either been preparing, negotiating or ratifying a new Treaty.
We all have our qualms, but remember: it is very strong on foreign policy; it gives us a legal personality; it gives us fundamental rights - at least some of us - and it gives us more qualified majority voting.
I think it was Graham Watson who said here that Portugal's Prime Minister must feel that he is preparing his army to fight the Intergovernmental Conference battle on 18 and 19 October.
As I say, we are therefore confident of success, given the feeling that a debate which has perhaps been running for too long needs to be drawn to a conclusion as well as the perceived urgent need to create a spirit of construction, union and positive energy in order to face many other problems which we shall have to confront in the future and which have been mentioned here: climate change, energy issues, immigration, our own internal reform, which we need to achieve in order to face the more general problems of globalisation.
Just a word about the question of the Lisbon Strategy in order to thank João de Deus Pinheiro for his speech.
I am sure that everybody will want to find a pragmatic political solution that can satisfy all sides when this moment comes.
The second question had to do with Article 24 of the Treaty, on protection of personal data in the field of security.
As it stands now, Article 24 of the EU Treaty allows the Council alone to define the rules in this field, with no possibility of involvement of the European Parliament.
That agreement currently has a third-pillar legal base and, therefore, in the Commission's view, it will therefore be covered by the normal competence of the EP and the Court in the future.
I am seated so that I can actually watch all our visitors.
Of course, it reflects the political situation and the difficult political game that comes after a long period of actually having discussed how we can adapt our decision-making procedures to enlarge the European Union of 27 Member States; how we can actually incorporate also the new issues that have emerged lately, like climate change and energy; how we can be more open and effective.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) Hungary has always championed support for the Constitutional Treaty - or, in its new form, the Reform Treaty.
Hungary's interest, and the Union's objective, is that we should safeguard peace and our fundamental interests, and promote the welfare of the citizens of the Union, already approximately 500 million in number.
The new security threats must be responded to with new strategies and new policies.
The essential thing is that we need a Europe in which 27 Member States feel a joint responsibility for us to take suitable steps together for a better future.
The adoption of this text should respect the timetable envisaged, with a view to the Treaty of Lisbon entering into force on 1 January 2009.
