Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (PL) Mr President, there are a number of controversies surrounding the production and consumption of tobacco.
Imported tobacco would be used.
I fully support the development of a public information programme to publicise the dangers of smoking, and this should be paid for by cigarette manufacturers and tobacco producers. (CS) I support information campaigns on the harmful effects of tobacco and the European Parliament resolution on a long-term plan to finance these campaigns with EUR 80 million, deducted from the subsidies to European tobacco growers.
However, I object to subsidising tobacco production in Europe, and not only as a matter of general principle: the public funds allocated for this area could be used elsewhere and in a better way. (EL) Mr President, we, the PASOK Group in the European Parliament, have voted in favour of Mr Berlato's report.
There should be a similar policy with self-financed funds to inform the public on health matters relating to other products such as meat and fats.
At the beginning PEACE I was certainly not fair; PEACE II was better, and I certainly look forward to PEACE III being another improvement.
The people deserve no less, and I warn against the sinister forces that are still around in the region. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report mainly for two reasons: firstly, because this report quite emphatically demands that the Member States finally implement the Lisbon Strategy and therefore measures on employment policy as well, and secondly, because it demands that good and affordable childcare arrangements finally be set up in the Member States.
In the EU, considered as a sphere of wellbeing, there are still almost 80 million people, that is 16% of all EU citizens, who are living in or threatened by poverty.
High unemployment, low involvement of older and disabled people in employment, a high proportion of people remaining out of work for longer than 12 months, women finding it harder than men in the job market - these are just some of the problems they have to face.
The situation in the Czech Republic is worth commending: there they have made the lowering of barriers to employee movements one of the priorities of the forthcoming Presidency. (NL) The report by Mrs Van Lancker actually reads like a type of catalogue of good intentions and wishes.
Mrs Van Lancker should know better.
We both live in a country in which, unfortunately, 10 million people in both parts of the country are simply crying out for a fundamentally different approach to the employment issue in the two parts of the country.
It is for all of these reasons, and many more, that I have voted against this report with conviction.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, regarding the report by Mrs Sudre, with my Group's support I tabled a number of amendments as part of a compromise.
These amendments have been partially fulfilled.
However, I voted in favour of this report, which certainly provides valuable information and results for the ORs. (CS) I would like to follow up on the politically charged debate we had yesterday.
I did not support the Socialists' proposal relating to collective redress because the responsible thing, in my opinion, is to wait for the results of the impact studies in order to assess the effectiveness of collective redress, in particular as regards the costs incurred by consumers.
I have said it before in this institution and I shall say it again: the fight against discrimination, if it is necessary, is a fight that falls within the exclusive competence of the Member States, and Europe must not assume the role of police officer or thought police in this regard.
I cannot agree with this and have therefore voted against this report with conviction. (DE) Mr President, we are all in agreement that every conceivable measure has to be taken against discrimination.
Therefore, we have also declared our faith in four directives.
I have, however, voted against this report because it chooses a wrong strategy, because it does not advocate the implementation of existing laws, but instead immediately demands another new directive, which includes new authorities, new bureaucracies and new test procedures.
Nor do the actions taken by the European Commission and other agencies in authority offer much hope for improvement.
Europe and the rest of the world are still wrestling with racial, sexual, cultural and national discrimination.
That is why I am voting against the report.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, within the GUE/NGL Group there exists great tolerance for minority positions.
Such was recently the case in the voting on my report concerning the relationship between Macedonia and the European Union.
However, this position was only the viewpoint of the Communist Party of Greece, not of our group as a whole, which supported my proposals, as did the vast majority of this Parliament.
In their national debate, those two parties prefer to use the Piecyk report as a symbol for everything that is wrong about the working conditions of seamen and port workers and also for everything that can be linked with NATO intentions for the military use of the sea.
Fifthly, oceans and seas play an important role in the European strategy to ensure energy security.
Written explanation of vote I voted in favour of the report by my Swedish fellow Member Jan Andersson, under the simplified procedure, which confirms the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Decision 85/368/EEC on the comparability of vocational training qualifications between the Member States of the European Community, which called for the Member States and the Commission to cooperate in drawing up Community job descriptions in specified occupations, and then match vocational training qualifications recognised in the Member States with the agreed job descriptions.
The European Qualifications Framework (EQF) should address the limitations of the decision to be repealed, by focusing on improving the transparency of qualifications and by introducing a decentralised approach for cooperation which reflects the increasing complexity of qualifications in Europe.
Nevertheless, this unfortunate affair testifies to the need for clarification and simplification of Community law so that citizens can understand and use it in their everyday lives.
As a representative of Małopolska, the third largest region in Poland in terms of student numbers, I would also like to draw attention to the particular significance of diploma recognition for young people.
The free movement of people provides EU citizens with the potential to take up employment in another Member State.
This is why it is so important to be able to compare occupational qualifications between different Member States.
In a few years' time our domestic enterprises will be demanding a re-evaluation of the regulations that apply to foreign enterprises so that they do not go under in the face of merciless competition.
I voted in favour of the report by my Polish fellow Member Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg approving, in its first reading under the codecision procedure, the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council to codify Council Directive 93/7/EEC of 15 March 1993 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State as amended by Directive 96/100/EC (OJ L of 1 March 1997) and Directive 2001/38/EC (OJ L of 10 July 2001).
I am disappointed that the codification process is taking such a long time; it should be remembered that it was on 1 April 1987 that the Commission decided to instruct its services to proceed with the codification of all legislation at the latest after its 10th modification, emphasising that this was a minor matter and that its services should strive to codify the texts they were responsible for within an even shorter interval.
The President-in-Office of the European Council (in Edinburgh in December 1992) confirmed these imperatives.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the Geringer report because I agree that the cultural objects that were removed from the territory of a Member State illegally should be returned to the lawful owner.
This report supports the idea of issuing a European Directive for establishing administrative cooperation between Member States on the return of cultural objects removed unlawfully.
The Directive will stipulate the establishment of a central authority in each Member State, which would exclusively deal with this issue and cooperate with the similar authorities established in the other Member States and Interpol.
in writing. - I endorse the codification of legislation relating to cultural objects unlawfully removed from Member States.
The existing legislation has been modified a number of times and it is important that we have a clear legal framework within which Member States can secure the return of stolen cultural property.
I also believe that cultural objects should be returned to local communities within Member States when there is clear local support for such an initiative.
in writing. - Although having voted in favour of the report, I must draw attention to the fact that Article 13 of the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State states that this directive shall apply starting from 1 January 1993.
I voted in favour of the report by my Italian fellow Member Mrs Locatelli, written under the consultation procedure on the proposal for a Council regulation setting up the Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Joint Undertaking.
Fuel cells are very quiet, highly efficient energy converters capable of delivering substantial cumulative greenhouse gas and pollutant reductions, since they can be operated on hydrogen and other fuels, such as natural gas, ethanol and methanol.
I welcome the Berlato report on the possibility of extending the financing of the Community Tobacco Fund until 2012.
It is important to underline the fact that the financing earmarked for the Community Tobacco Fund will be used to cover all initiatives and education and awareness-raising campaigns on the damage caused by smoking.
The Community Tobacco Fund financed by the transfer of a certain amount of tobacco aid for the years 2006 and 2007 promotes initiatives to raise public awareness of the harmful effects of smoking.
Tobacco consumption in Europe has not changed and the gradual reduction in European production has been replaced by tobacco imports.
The parallel question of maintaining the CMO in tobacco and therefore of postponing the 2004 reform that should have applied from 2010 must be addressed during the health check of the CAP because decoupling causes the almost total abandonment of production with no sustainable alternative from the point of view of the economy and jobs, which has had very serious consequences for the rural areas concerned but no impact on public health.
in writing. - (PT) Financing of the Community Tobacco Fund is aimed exclusively at promoting information initiatives on the damage tobacco products can cause.
The proposal presented by the European Commission provides for the transfer of an amount equal to 5% of the tobacco aid granted for the calendar years 2008 and 2009.
For its part, Parliament is proposing the transfer of 6% of tobacco aid granted for the period 2009 to 2012, assuming that aid to producers is continued.
As we know, the European Commission has, unfortunately, moved towards decoupling production aid, which has been instrumental in reducing tobacco production in Portugal, although tobacco is still being imported from producer countries.
in writing. - I have voted against this report because as someone who has argued from the very outset against subsidies for tobacco production, I believe that it would be devastating to extend the phasing out of tobacco subsidies from 2009 to 2012.
I believe that the Parliament's report which tries to reopen the debate about phasing out of subsidies by 2009 is totally unacceptable.
I see no logical reason to continue supporting tobacco production particularly due to the negative consequences tobacco has on health and healthcare costs.
in writing. - I voted against the Berlato report on the Community Tobacco Fund.
The EU, in harmony with numerous Member States, has sought to reduce tobacco use by measures such as the ban on tobacco advertising.
in writing. - The European Parliament resolution on the Tobacco Fund proposes to extend agricultural subsidies on tobacco.
For the EU to financially support the growth of tobacco is ridiculous, to use part of this money to support anti-smoking campaigns hypocritical.
Anti-smoking campaigns are useful but can easily be financed in other ways.
in writing. - Sergia Belato's report on the Community Tobacco Fund seeks to reopen the debate on extending tobacco subsidies until 2012.
It guarantees Community subsidies for tobacco growers for a further period and affords them protection against unfavourable discrimination in relation to growers of other agricultural products, for which subsidies are to continue.
The report is extremely balanced and represents a rare and positive example of integration between the EU's agricultural and health policies.
By proposing to increase the percentage rate of the deduction for subsidies paid to tobacco growers and releasing additional funding of over EUR 81 million for anti-smoking campaigns, the report manages to satisfy both camps with regard to certain sensitive areas.
in writing. - You will be aware that over many years this Parliament has been very vocal in its efforts to highlight the dangers to health of smoking tobacco.
The Commission's position is clear.
The Community Tobacco Fund should cease to exist.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my British fellow Member Mrs de Brún on the evaluation of the PEACE Programme (EU Special Support Programme for Peace and Reconciliation in Northern Ireland) which stresses that local empowerment has been an essential part of peace-building in Northern Ireland and that the participation of civil society in this process has largely contributed to improving local policy making and implementation.
I support the idea that cooperation between participants in programmes financed by PEACE and IFI (International Fund for Ireland) should not cease when the programmes come to an end.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the de Brún report on the PEACE Programme which rightly highlights the importance of local empowerment in the peace-building process.
For the farmers and agricultural producers in Romania, reducing the bureaucratic burden is a requirement in order to be able to fully benefit from the advantages of joining the European Union.
The statistical reports should be taken into consideration both by Eurostat and in particular by the national institutions and companies.
As regards meat, the statistical data represent a picture that allows taking actions in due time in order to regulate the market, by establishing intervention mechanisms.
The statistical reports should be unitary, correct and available in due time in order to avoid major imbalances on the Community market, affecting producers, consumers or both groups equally.
This report has precisely this mission and I welcome it!
At the same time, national authorities should also rigorously (and, where necessary, firmly) implement actions that would result in seriousness from respondents.
I voted in support of the report's recommendations.
I voted in favour of the report by my Belgian fellow Member Mrs Van Lancker, written within the framework of the consultation procedure, on the proposal for a Council decision on guidelines for employment policies of the Member States.
I salute the excellent job done by my colleague and friend Mrs Morin, the rapporteur for our political group, particularly on flexicurity.
At the risk of getting off the subject a little, since this Council decision basically aims only to make recommendations to the Member States on the basis of Article 128 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, I am disappointed that, although it was its duty in application of Article 138 of this Treaty, the Committee does not push forward the social partners and affirm that the time has come to create European employment legislation with the support of these social partners based on the procedure laid down in Article 139 of the EC Treaty.
The figures reveal the need to monitor individual Member States to ensure that they tackle employment issues with an increasingly balanced, flexicurity approach: this means new jobs, but also better conditions for workers in general.
As the rapporteur emphasises, however, the Lisbon Agenda needs to take more account of common social objectives: the buzzword of our strategy should now be inclusion, and not just growth and employment.
in writing. - (PT) The current situation shows that, ten years after the first guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States, there is ever less employment with rights, which in itself shows that the strategy is not aimed at the promotion of employment with rights.
We therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Van Lancker Report dealing with Member States' employment policies.
The report also calls for Member States to recognise national traditions in implementing employment policy.
in writing. - (PL) I abstained from the vote on Mrs Van Lancker's report on employment policy guidelines.
This should be our common concern.
The average unemployment rate of 7.3% in 2007, not taking account of assisted jobs, is higher than that of the other major economic blocs.
The Lisbon Strategy, viewed in a positive light by the rapporteur, opens our economies up to unfair competition, particularly from communist China, which practises true social dumping.
Restoring national preference, which is fair positive discrimination, reducing the weight of immigration and thereby reducing the tax burden on our companies and employees, and implementing the principle of Community preference to protect the European market: these are the principal measures that should be taken to develop employment in Europe.
in writing. - I salute the rapporteur's move to strengthen the social dimension of the Lisbon strategy.
The rapporteur also notes that in recent years as many as 6 million young people aged between 18 and 24 have left school early and discontinued their education, and that youth unemployment represents 40% of total unemployment in the EU, with this percentage being twice as high among migrants.
In addition 78 million people are living in poverty, which is twice the population of Poland.
Discrimination against women, older people and migrants in the labour market is not falling, and stereotypes in thought and in action are failing to disappear.
The report gives a false impression of reality, and I therefore abstain in the vote.
in writing. - (PL) I support this report and Mrs Van Lancker's view that the common social objectives of the Member States should be better reflected in the Lisbon agenda.
I feel it is essential to promote common social standards at EU level.
British Conservatives look forward to receiving the rapporteur's further thoughts in due course, and therefore have abstained on the final vote on this report.
I voted in favour of the report by my Polish colleague Mr Lewandowski on Parliament's estimate of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2009.
We should also develop facilities for MEPs to receive visitors because these visits are very much appreciated and help citizens to get to know more about the European Union.
Finally, in my opinion we should increase the staff of MEPs and the European Parliament's committees in order to ensure their independence and the high standard of their work, for example, when dealing with the other European institutions, lobby groups or national parliaments.
in writing. - (PL) The year 2009 will bring many challenges for the European Parliament, linked above all to the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the elections to Parliament, the new Statute for Members and the change of term.
The announcement that the priorities established in the 2008 budget will continue in connection with interpreting and with the analytical service of the library is also pleasing.
The rapporteur is proposing that similar levels should be retained for the 2009 budget.
in writing. - (RO) The European Parliament should become aware of the importance of the principle of solidarity, according to which the regions that have remained behind or are less developed should be supported, including financially, from the European Union budget.
The only consolation that remains is that 16 million euros will be returned to our country due to the fact that 2007 was the first year in which a budgetary surplus was recorded.
The employment guidelines drawn up by the EU in collaboration with centre-left and centre-right governments have been enthusiastically contributed to by the European Parliament's political representatives of capitalism.
The EU aims to strike a decisive blow against state systems of social protection, insurance and pensions in all Member States.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Swedish fellow Member Mr Holm on trade in raw materials and commodities.
I agree with the idea that there is a need to secure the European Union's supply of raw materials and to ensure access to raw materials on the world markets, while noting that the European Union currently does not provide a coherent strategy that would allow its economy to face the challenges to its competitiveness due to enhanced competition for access to raw materials.
It is time that in its international trade relations, Europe, from Brussels, defended its own interests and those of its Member States first and foremost, instead of trying to create a globalist utopia at any cost, human or social.
By means of this report the European Parliament calls on the Commission to raise within the WTO issues of access to raw material markets.
Each country has the inalienable sovereign right to decide how it uses its raw materials or how it trades in its commodities.
in writing. - The report dealing with trade in raw materials and commodities expresses many important issues from a development perspective.
It also calls for more support for diversification in developing countries, and highlights the importance of policy space for these countries to enable the development of not least their agricultural sector.
Free and fair access to raw materials is important for the EU economy.
Nevertheless, the implications of price volatility in raw materials and commodities for developing countries also need to be taken into account.
That is partly the case with the increase in the price of raw materials.
The laws of economics apply even in distorted markets and an increase in demand results either in an increase in supply or, as in this case, in an increase in price.
The report on the trade in raw materials and commodities initially comprised a just complaint against the ultraliberal trade policy proposed by the EU in late 2006.
Even worse is the fact that the report labels free access to raw materials and commodities as a right of the EU and pushes forward a bilateral trade policy as the ideal instrument.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my French colleague and friend Mrs Sudre, which she wrote in response to the Commission communication on the strategy for the outermost regions (ORs).
I support the idea that taking into account increasingly mathematical justifications for the measures taken should not serve as a pretext for calling into question part of the Union's policy to assist the ORs nor deter actors by imposing conditions on them which are too difficult to meet.
Finally, I support the fact that the future common immigration policy should devote special attention to the position of ORs, which are all EU external borders.
We regret that the majority in Parliament rejected our amendments seeking to incorporate into the motion for a resolution on the future of EU policy for the Outermost Regions (ORs) - adopted today in plenary - the valuable and important proposals in the interests of the ORs, approved in the Committee on Fisheries.
On the other hand, we regret the rejection of our proposal that clearly explained that the Community support measures for the ORs should be of a permanent nature.
in writing. - (FR) France is very concerned about the European Union's policy on the outermost regions.
in writing. - (RO) The main issue of the seven ultra peripheral regions is that, although they represent 1% of the European Union population, they deal with a delicate economic and social situation, aggravated by their insular position far away from the continent, the difficult surface, relief and climate, as well as their economic dependence on a limited number of products.
This is also one of the reasons why I voted for this report and I would like to add the need to give increased attention to ports, since 6 out of the 7 ultra peripheral regions are islands.
in writing. - (DE) Supporting the outermost regions of the European Union is in keeping with EU thinking on solidarity in order to reduce the disadvantages generated by their being difficult to access.
Cross-sectoral and complementary measures in favour of the ORs have helped to improve the economic and social situation of these regions and it is still important to work on improved accessibility, stronger competitiveness and better regional integration.
I abstained from voting on the own-initiative report by my Finnish fellow Member Mr Lehtinen, in response to the Commission communication on Community consumer policy strategy for 2007-2013.
Moreover, in the absence of a serious legal study, I have considerable reservations about the hasty manner in which the report tackles the issue of collective action by consumers against producers by asking the Commission to put forward a comprehensive solution at European level offering all consumers access to collective appeal mechanisms for settling cross-border disputes.
The EU has a duty to develop a real transnational economic policy aimed at the protection of consumer rights and at safeguards for consumer health.
The proposal in question - which I support - is intended to create a harmonious legal framework to guarantee a solid, integrated system for product safety and to instil real consumer confidence in goods on the European market, thereby triggering widespread growth in consumption.
To arrive at an effective consumer protection policy, however, the EU must invest a great deal of energy in improving market surveillance, if necessary by stepping up international cooperation, and in education and awareness-raising campaigns for the consumers themselves: until consumers have been persuaded that its products are completely safe, the European market cannot realise its full potential.
This would allow Europe to become a truly competitive market able to satisfy and protect its consumers and encourage them to be bolder: real players in the market, in fact.
Economic changes in the new Member States have brought about the introduction of new principles of action for market entities.
The range of goods on offer to consumers today is increasingly rich in terms of both products and services.
I nevertheless feel that the position of consumers, especially in the new Member States, where we all recall the beginnings of the free market, remains relatively weak vis-à-vis large concerns.
in writing. - The EPP-ED Group strongly supports a comprehensive programme of actions to inform and empower consumers in Europe's Single Market.
We want consumers to take maximum benefits from the choice, diversity and innovation available in a thriving market of nearly 500 million consumers, the largest retail market in the world.
in writing. - (PL) Consumers are at the heart of the common market and should therefore be its main beneficiaries.
In my view, though, a balance should be maintained between legislation that strongly protects consumers and the conditions for the functioning of businesses.
I think, though, that we should in particular provide consumers with the opportunity to put their rights into effect rapidly and effectively.
In my opinion that extra-judicial means should be especially strongly emphasised when considering consumer complaints.
I would like to make the point that, according to data from Business Europe, as many as 90% of disputes relating to consumer rights are settled without recourse to the courts.
in writing. - (SV) I think it is a good thing that the EU is taking responsibility for consumers and I therefore voted for the report.
in writing. - The report proposes to establish an EU consumer ombudsman.
Services in areas such as health, education and lifeline transport links should remain publicly owned, publicly accountable and the responsibility of Member States.
in writing. - Lasse Lehtinen's report on the EU Consumer Policy Strategy 2007-2013 reiterates the need to empower EU consumers and enhance their welfare and protection across the Union.
My vote reflects the need for improved consumer protection across the EU.
in writing. - (PL) EU consumer policy strategy 2007-2013 presents the proper directions for the development of consumer protection, but the point should be made that ad hoc actions are far too little.
It is a pity, however, that an amendment to section 40 was adopted in the plenary sitting that favours group actions before an analysis is available, based upon the examination requested in the report.
I abstained from voting on the own-initiative report by my British fellow Member Mrs Lynne regarding the progress made in equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the Union since the transposition of the directives of 2000.
I agree with the fundamentals of the principles laid down in the report, in particular in terms of non-discrimination in fields such as education, lifelong learning, employment, social protection, housing and healthcare, the images of groups that are victims of discrimination in the media and advertising, physical access for disabled people to information, telecommunications, electronic communications, the different methods of transport and public spaces, social benefits and access to them, as well as the goods and services made available to the public, etc.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs abhor discrimination in all its forms: we have tabled our own amendments to this report to make this crystal clear.
in writing. - This report seeks to go beyond the competence given to the EU by the Member States in the area of anti-discrimination.
The Treaties clearly set out those areas where the EU has the power to propose legislation and what Member States can do on their own.
This report, however, has gone beyond the competence of the Union and as such the Fianna Fáil delegation have rejected it.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Lynne on progress made in equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the EU, since we need to urge the European Commission to keep a strict check on the transposition of Directives 2000/43/EC and 2000/78/EC on equal treatment between persons, and on the implementation of national laws based on those directives.
The report contains some positive aspects, namely the insistence that the Commission and the Member States should end all discrimination based on the employment contract by ensuring equal treatment for all workers, health and safety protection, provisions for working and rest time, freedom of association and representation, protection against unfair dismissal, collective bargaining and collective action.
It also emphasises the importance of access to training as well as the continued protection of acquired rights by covering periods of education and training, improved care opportunities, the maintenance of essential social rights such as pension rights, training rights and the right to unemployment benefits during changes in a person's occupational situation, between employment contracts and between dependent and autonomous employment.
For our part we reject the PPE-DE's proposals and supported the rapporteur, although we disagree with some points in the report.
in writing. - (FR) The Lynne report on combating discrimination in the Member States, in particular in employment, is entirely in keeping with the texts adopted by Parliament on this subject.
I therefore regret that their entry into force is continually coming up against numerous obstacles, even in our Europe, which would appear to be more democratic and less discriminatory.
This is of particular importance for the citizens of my country, Poland, who, enjoying the benefits of the common market and freedom of personal movement, live and work in many EU countries.
in writing. - (PL) First of all I would like to stress that conducting a debate and taking action in the sphere of opposing discrimination and equal opportunities is very important.
As the rapporteur herself points out, however, some Member States have not yet fully implemented the Directives on equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin (2000/43/EC) and on equal treatment in employment and occupation (2000/78/EC).
The challenges linked to discrimination and equal opportunities are not the same in all Member States.
in writing. - I welcome Elizabeth Lynne's report entitled 'Progress made in equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the EU'.
We need a horizontal Article 13 directive and I voted in favour of Ms Lynne's report.
in writing. - The Fine Gael members of the PPE-DE Group, Mairead McGuinness, Avril Doyle, Gay Mitchell and Colm Burke abstained in the final vote on the Lynne report on 'Progress made on equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the EU'.
The report points out and criticises Member States for 'deficiencies in the transposition and implementation' of Directive 2000/78/EC and calls for more rigorous monitoring of Member States' transposition and implementation as well as strengthening of EU law in this area.
We support the call for full transposition and implementation of EU Directives, but note that infringement procedures against some Member States have still not been concluded.
It is important that existing EU Directives are fully implemented and the Commission should continue to ensure compliance at Member State level before there could be any consideration of new EU measures.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for this report and I consider it important for the progress achieved, but especially for the future actions required in order to achieve equality of chances and the fight against discrimination.
The success of the report is guaranteed by two things: important support of the population for adopting measures in order to combat discrimination, which would ensure equal opportunities for everyone, as well as our political solid commitment, of the European social-democrats, for building a society where nobody is excluded and where all citizens have equal chances.
in writing. - (PT) The active and energetic defence of non-discrimination is not to be confused with relativisation in which everything is equal, everything is equivalent and all choices, options or circumstances have equal value in the legal order.
Twenty-eight actions for infringement are in progress against Member States that have not transposed them.
The Internet portal Pracuj.pl ran a questionnaire among people in work and seeking work, employers, students and graduates.
According to the questionnaire, the social groups most discriminated against in the labour market are the over-50s and disabled people.
My view is that an anti-discrimination policy, as one of the fundamental principles of the EU, has a very definite task to perform in this sphere.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote for this own-initiative report since it contains several worthwhile considerations relating to the creation of a system for the sustainable ecological and economic management of the EU's marine environments.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my German fellow Member Mr Piecyk on an Integrated Maritime Policy for the European Union, drawn up in response to a Communication from the Commission on the same subject.
The maritime areas (two oceans - the Atlantic and the Arctic - and four seas - the Baltic, the North Sea, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea) and the coastline (70 000 km) of Europe are essential to its well-being and prosperity; they are the trade routes, the climate regulators, sources of food, energy and resources, and popular places to live and for leisure among Europeans.
The report also suggests that the action plan must make an important contribution towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the use of fair emissions trading systems, by consolidating research into the oceans and seas as a renewable energy source and by introducing equal tax treatment of electricity and marine fuels.
According to preliminary estimates, there are somewhere between 40 000 and 60 000 tonnes of chemical ammunition, of which about 12 000-13 000 tonnes are poisonous combat material.
Today, the delegation has therefore voted in favour of the point in the report on an integrated maritime policy for the European Union that clearly states that we must include shipping in the trading of CO2 emissions.
in writing. - (SV) We entirely agree with some of the views presented in this report, for example that it is urgent to combat sulphur and nitrogen oxide emissions from ships and that the common fisheries policy is too bureaucratic and centralised.
However, most of the proposals put forward are negative.
The report constitutes a further example of how the European Parliament seeks to gain influence in ever more areas of policy.
We have therefore voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Piecyk Report on the EU's maritime policy.
Finally, I support the report's proposals regarding the security aspect of maritime policy, and in particular the idea of drawing up common rules in this area and sharing surveillance methods within the Community maritime space.
This would enable us both to combat maritime piracy, a phenomenon that we have seen the return of in recent years, and to protect the natural heritage and archaeology of these areas in order to prevent any catastrophes that would have disastrous effects on the development of the Union's coastline.
in writing. - Willi Piecyk's report 'An integrated Maritime Policy for the European Union' addresses the challenges that Europe's maritime industry now faces.
It is only in establishing an integrated maritime policy that global issues such as globalisation and climate change and their effects on our oceans can be effectively engaged with.
in writing. - Our seas are our common resource.
We can only do this by working across EU countries which have an interest in maritime policy.
Perhaps, as next year this day will fall during the European Elections, all candidates will use 20 May to highlight maritime policy issues.
