The guidelines themselves, however, are too general and take no account of the marked differences between Member States.
High living standards are the result of a very competitive economy and a high rate of employment, but are not in themselves a yardstick for competitiveness.
In Europe, the battle to achieve greater productivity is inseparable from the battle to ensure fairer distribution of the fruits of growth, greater social cohesion and effective protection of the natural environment.
In the primary and secondary sectors, Europe has been outperforming the United States, achieving better productivity rates in 37 out of the 56 sectors studied.
These guidelines are based on the notion that economic growth can make a decisive contribution to job creation and that that is the best guarantee for social provision.
The report advocates prevention and we recommend the establishment of a broad agreement at European level to combat workplace accidents, which cause so many deaths throughout Europe.
Sixthly, our commitment to social cohesion and inclusion and to combating employment discrimination, supporting integrated action and the adoption of all measures necessary to guarantee that labour markets are open to job seekers, in particular women, young people, the elderly and people suffering any type of disability.
The text, and also the contributions of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, include a whole range of measures to guarantee real equality between men and women, not just with regard to access to jobs, but also with regard to other issues, such as salaries, professional promotion and harassment.
Which means that when we all consider this social agenda, then what is more important to us than anything else is achieving the Lisbon objectives, in other words obtaining jobs and creating sound and high-quality employment.
Lisbon also means, however, that we must ensure that people who are now being sidelined, are unable to work or are disabled, as a result of which they are unable sufficiently to reconcile work with a professional life, are also given a chance on the labour market by means of the social framework which we would like to have in Europe.
That also means that we must carefully examine the effects of demographic changes in our society on our social security system.
If we know that, in the next few years, we will be faced with a decrease in the number of young people and an increase in the number of older people in our working population, this means that we must adapt our social security systems to those demographic factors.
A month and a half ago, on 12 April, Vice-President Verheugen, Commissioner Špidla and myself had the opportunity to present to this Parliament the integrated package of guidelines for the review and application of the Lisbon Strategy, combining the two instruments laid down in the Treaty into a single communication, a single discussion and a single strategy: the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines.
The two instruments based on the Treaty — the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines — have the same objective, though with a different approach and at differing levels: to increase our growth, to increase levels of employment, and, on this basis, to enhance social cohesion, the social model that is laid down in the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, and socially and environmentally sustainable development — another of the principal elements of the Lisbon Strategy — and naturally all of this should be done in a way that improves our competitiveness and our capacity to continue growing.
In the time I have left before my colleague Mr Špidla speaks — Mr Verheugen cannot be here today, unfortunately — I am going to comment on the report by Mr Goebbels on the broad economic policy guidelines.
As well as the confidence problem, we have a problem of disparity of situations, which, since we have decided to have a single monetary policy, presents us with a challenge on which both the Commission and the Council and, in particular, the Eurogroup, are working: how to respond, within a context of budgetary discipline — we are going to discuss the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact in this Parliament in a few days time — and on the basis of coordination of economic policies, of the broad economic policy guidelines, to that disparity of situations in such a way that, by applying recommendations adapted to the specific circumstances of each of the national economies, the whole of the euro zone and the whole of the European Union can coordinate their economic policies and we can all achieve a better result.
In particular, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Oomen-Ruijten, for her outstanding work on the Social Agenda, and Mrs&#160;Mato&#160;Adrover, for the high quality of her work and for her proactive approach to preparing Parliament’s position on the guidelines.
I am delighted that this House’s position on the guidelines for economic policy reflects the new focus of the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment, and that it also reflects the three priorities of employment policy, namely increased labour market participation, flexibility and investment in human capital.
There is no denying that we must still put in a great deal of work and effort in order to develop this model and to be competitive and up-to-date, but one need only compare our basic constraints with those of other regions in the world where conditions are similar to see that Europe is quite clearly not doing such a bad job.
The Commission welcomes the general tenor of Parliament’s position, and will do its best to ensure that due consideration is given to it in the final version of the guidelines, upon which the Social Affairs Council will take a decision on 2 and 3&#160;June.
The European Council acknowledged this fact at its Spring Summit by coming to a favourable conclusion on the Social Agenda.
A wide range of instruments are available to us for measures at Community level, including legislation, the open method of coordination, financial instruments, in particular the European Social Fund, and social dialogue.
That agenda is very important to fulfilling the Lisbon criteria and achieving a balance between economic growth and a social Europe.
First of all, the new agenda is a response to the renewed Lisbon agenda.
Secondly, we should adopt a new inter-generational approach, incorporating into the agenda a drive to cope with the problems of socially excluded groups – not only the young generation, but also pensioners, disabled people and women.
I welcome the forthcoming establishment of the European Gender Institute, which will be able to monitor gender conditions in the Member States. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should like to speak about employment.
This will certainly apply to large financial groups and businesses, but small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which account for over 90% of all European businesses and which employ two thirds of all workers, are placed at a clear disadvantage and will only be able to gain in confidence if they increase in size.
Parliament has, for example, for a very long time been asking for a revision of the directive on the European works council or a directive on the protection of employees in the case of individual dismissal.
The European Union should, in my view, also continue to play a pioneering role with regard to the fight against discrimination, and people with a disability are very much counting on the fact that the European Union will lay down more legislation in this area.
Services of general interest are also crucial as a means of social cohesion and therefore we welcome the recommendation in this report on the need for a framework directive in this area.
We therefore wish for the European Parliament to be fully involved in future work on that. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, under discussion are key questions in the development of the economic or social situation in all of the Member States of the EU.
The objective is, of course, to facilitate wage moderation and to ensure that productivity gains are passed on to the large economic groups, thereby brushing under the carpet the real scandal that already exists, namely the redistribution of profits, when profits are at their highest level for 25 years.
If we could just leave business alone to generate wealth, the EU’s many programmes, such as caring for the environment and providing a high level of social security, might actually be affordable. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Mato Adrover, on the abundant efforts made in the report, which is a summary of declarations of principle.
Even though these declarations can be agreed upon in the main, they are at times inconsistent, particularly in their attempts to harmonise increased employment with job development measures, and above all in attempting to reconcile job flexibility with job security, without specifying how this is to be achieved.
Sometimes, we also overestimate our own ability to cope with this transformation.
We derive hope from the simple fact that we are successful in those countries and those parts of our economies in which we have implemented reforms.
In those countries that have reformed their labour markets, we see better development in terms of employment; and in those countries whose taxes make matters easier for business, we see more enterprise.
We shall therefore support this report and see to it that we win support for the proposals we are introducing into it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs and, in particular, Mrs&#160;Mato&#160;Adrover for her constructive cooperation in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs under quite difficult conditions.
The answer is no.
We must cope with increased competition through research and development and better job opportunities and through investing in the labour force by developing its skills.
We must create a labour market in which working life and parenthood can be combined.
We must create conditions in the labour market whereby both men and women can participate in it.
We must make greater efforts in connection with people who come as refugees to Europe and who are often placed outside the labour market, as well as in connection with disabled people and others so that they too can participate in the labour market to a significantly greater degree. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves today discussing a number of proposals and measures linking together social growth, employment and economic growth.
That means that we are aware of the fact that global competition and current trends are today confronting Europe with significant challenges for its future.
I therefore agree with what was said by previous speakers, which is that our Social Agenda must also have an ambitious outlook.
That means outlining a programme – aimed at citizens, businesses and social partners – which explains that Europe, together with its citizens, wants to create certainty and provide instruments that contribute to promoting confidence and security.
I therefore believe that the entire social inclusion policy, the policy focusing on female employment and the reference made to young people are key elements in a strongly cohesive social policy and, at the same time, in an economic growth and development policy for our Europe.
In the absence of the fourth pillar, the Member States have abandoned active measures to help women into employment, and that we cannot accept.
I should like to thank Mrs Mato Adrover for her excellent work on the question of the guidelines for employment policies.
The amendments proposed by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance call for clearer targets and improve the text still further, which is why we shall support them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in May of every year, we debate in this Chamber the EU’s economic policy guidelines.
For example, on 10 March, this House adopted a resolution about the trade in human egg cells, and paragraph 15 of this resolution emphatically specifies that embryonic stem cell research can be left to the Member States, where that is permitted.
I will withhold my support for this resolution if Mrs Van den Burg’s Modification 12 and Amendment 24 are adopted as they are. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has made a great many appropriate, intelligent and rational proposals.
The Council should not bury its head in the sand and hope that this problem will go away.
A full and immediate liberalisation of labour markets really would revolutionise the EU economy, and prove to the citizens of the new EU Member States that there is no such thing as a first-class Europe and a second-class Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mr Goebbels on his report.
The entry of women into the job market also needs to be enhanced.
I would also like to express my strong support for the amendments tabled to the report by my colleague, Mr&#160;Hökmark, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group.
The idea of a flexible and secure labour market open to all citizens is an excellent one.
We must not allow our stagnating rules and practices to hinder those who are willing to work from entering or staying in the labour market.
I hope the Commission will take the points made by Parliament seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as various colleagues in my group have already said, we are all for the integrated approach to these guidelines.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we in our group emphasise the need for stronger economic coordination, and I should also like to ask Commissioner Almunia to examine how we can inject more coherence into the discussion of these packages of guidelines and annual budgetary reports about convergence in the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact.
A third point I should like to make is that it is important to give the European Parliament a fully-fledged role in these processes and, in terms of procedures, also to ensure that we are given sufficient time and space for our contribution in the next few years.
Finally, I worry about the way in which the Council still uses this European perspective as a guiding principle only on a few occasions, and I would like to ask the Commission to look into this.
In this case, I would particularly like to address Mr Spidla, because I was extremely vexed by the way in which a position we adopted last time in the plenary about the Working Hours Directive was handled; this was immediately followed by a reaction that was very negative towards Parliament’s position and that very much pandered to a veto by one Member State that had added a few other Member States to the Working Hours Directive dossier.
I do not see in the least why the combination of previously useless instruments should, suddenly and on its own, help to achieve a real breakthrough as regards job creation and economic growth within the European Union.
I therefore ask, as a matter of urgency, that thought be again given to the principles involved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unemployment in the EU’s Member States has virtually quadrupled since the beginning of the 1970s, and temporary employment agencies are becoming the principal employers in many countries.
The idea that low taxes and wage dumping will bring us closer to the virtually full employment we have set ourselves as a goal strikes me as highly questionable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not intend to take up too much time talking about the measures in the two reports that we are discussing.
The enormous pessimism amongst all our populations has been very visible in the debates that are currently taking place in relation to the referenda in France and in the Netherlands.
The European Parliament is fully aware of the importance of national ownership with regard to the matters under discussion.
Far from inevitably hampering competition, good social and environmental policies can help make us more competitive, promote growth and create new jobs.
The European Union needs fundamental social rights and basic standards if there is to be more liberality and a more market-oriented economy, for, rather than throwing the baby out with the bathwater, we want to breathe new life into the model of the environmentally-responsible social market economy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, there is a lack of growth in Europe, and I now see that even the OECD’s economic managers are saying the same thing clearly and unambiguously.
In that way, we could make use of our economic independence from one another and combine social protection with economic competitiveness and sound growth.
That is something that we in the Nordic countries have demonstrated and that we can extend throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in several respects the EU economy is further away from its goal of becoming the world’s most competitive economy than was the case in 2000.
The realisation of a knowledge society, based upon human capital, education, research and innovation policies, is necessary to boost our growth potential and to prepare for the future.
Knowledge accumulated through investment in research and development, innovation and education is a key driver of long-run growth.
It is the case that this year the time scales for the debate, in order for the Commission and Council to take account of Parliament’s opinion expressed in these reports, have been particularly short, but this is due to the beginning of the cycle and the very tight timetable available to all the institutions in order to begin this new cycle of coordination of economic policies, within the context of a review of the Lisbon Strategy.
Secondly, I believe that the speeches have demonstrated that there is a very broad basic consensus on three requirements necessary for the whole of the European Union to increase its economic growth, its growth potential and, therefore, its ability to create more employment and to make progress towards all the Lisbon Strategy objectives.
This approach includes the review of the Lisbon Strategy, the reform of the Stability Pact, which we are going to discuss in this Parliament in a few days time, and also, I hope, as from the European Council in June, the new financial perspectives for 2007-2013.
Allow me to make a final comment: as has been said, it is the case that structural reforms are difficult to launch and implement in an environment of low growth, but it is also the case that the countries that are growing most are the countries that have carried out reforms, as has been said in the debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission I can assure you that we will do everything in our power to ensure that due consideration will be given to the outcome of the debate in this House in the final documents, which will be debated by the Council in early June. &#160;&#160; Mr President, several speakers have asked Mr Špidla about the Working Time Directive and the way he dealt with Parliament’s position in the last plenary.
I did not hear a response on that. &#160;&#160; Mrs&#160;van den Burg, we cannot turn the debate into a fresh debate.
I should like to emphasise that these accounts of the European institutions will be integrated into the accounts for the relevant area, be it the eurozone or the whole European Union.
I wish to thank all those who, over the past six months, have hammered out this agreement, for this stage itself reinforces Parliament’s rights, both as a legislative and a budgetary authority.
I regard this agreement as a real leap forward, in that it ushers in a new culture of cooperation, one that works towards transparent work processes, embodies mutual respect for the functions of our institutions and wants the European Union’s policymaking to be characterised by constructive dialogue.
It also enhances the role of our Parliament as a control body and a democratic expression of the European Union and, therefore, also enhances the democratic legitimacy of our common project and better defines the political responsibility of the Commission.
This agreement covers all the points dear to our institutions, points which are at the heart of European democracy, namely the political accountability of the Commission to Parliament and transparency and cooperation in the legislative and budgetary fields as well as in international relations.
I strongly recommend the approval of this amendment insofar as it serves to restore meaning to the regulation as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I will not comment on the merits of this amendment, but I would just like to point out that to vote first on this new Article 3, dealing with Amendments 99 and 32, is perhaps acceptable from a formal point of view, but not from a substantive point of view, insofar as the new Article 3 is nothing but a new version, a ruse to reintroduce the contents of Article 4.
That is a fact, and so much so that if, for instance, you had the courage – or the misfortune – to read Amendment 99 and compare it with Amendment 88, you would see that they are identical, save for a small detail regarding the dates.
I therefore think it more appropriate to vote on the amendments to Article 4 as such, and only afterwards, and if required, to address those relating to the new Article 3, which seeks to replace Article 4 through the back door. &#160;&#160; The amendments have been tabled in due form and I shall leave it to the wisdom of the House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for allowing me to intervene at this point; I realise there are a lot of votes to get through.
But I am hopeful that if we can get overwhelming support for it here today the Council will, as a matter of urgency, adopt it without further delay.
The rest is unchanged. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to insert a new paragraph after paragraph 31 concerning Russia’s very outdated current social security legislation.
This Russian legislation was passed in 1993.
My Group will be voting for Amendment 6 to replace the text of paragraph 5.
It is very important that small businesses around Europe be able to feel their way to different solutions in accordance with the principle of institutional competition.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, which advocates extending the programme until 31&#160;December&#160;2006 and highlights the need to increase the annual appropriation to EUR&#160;91&#160;million.
The financial instruments in the existing programme must also be kept in place, as they largely cover the needs of the new Member States, and restricting funds will hamper those countries from integrating into the European economy. &#160;&#160; .Mr Chairman, Allow me to explain the reasons for my vote in favour of Britta Thomsen's report – the Multiannual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship.
For almost 20.5 million companies employing approximately 122 million people, this multiannual programme 2001 – 2005 has been one of the sources of EU financing policy in the entrepreneurship area, and a tool for attaining the objectives set out in the European Charter for Small Enterprise.
It has also helped the 10 new Member States to build the institutional network of Euro Info Centres that coordinate the activities aimed at supporting and developing small and medium-sized enterprises.
I welcome this initiative because the SMEs are the backbone of the European economy and a key element in achieving the Lisbon objectives.
Over-exploitation of fishing waters pushes people in developing countries into ever greater poverty and robs the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain.
This agreement provides for financial compensation of around EUR&#160;1&#160;million, fishing rights of 9&#160;000 tonnes per year, 1&#160;300 GT per month for demersal species and work for 48 French, Spanish and Portuguese vessels.
The ongoing debate in Parliament and the Council on the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013 does not envisage any change in these aspects; quite the opposite in fact.
The implementation of such safety systems in all vehicles will come into effect from 2006 onwards.
I think this directive is well over due.
The European Union is duty-bound to implement these recommendations, but it must not go beyond that, lest it create other difficulties.
Failing to distinguish between citizens of the European Union and non-citizens flies in the face of all the principles that underlie our Community law.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has made the most appropriate proposal on this matter.
This is true of both ‘new terrorism’, which has taken on a new scale and relevance since 11&#160;September, and for forms of terrorism that have been around for much longer and that are still active in Europe, as in the case of ETA.
I welcome this report, and in particular the reference to the need to extend these two programmes until 2006.
It is, however, important to take account of proportionality in legislation and of the role and significance of the national parliaments.
We are of the view that the Member States should in the first place decide on rules concerning nutrition and health claims made on foods.
We are critical of quite a few of the Commission’s articles, for example Article 4 stating that the Commission should be entitled to establish nutrient profilesthat must be respected when it comes to health claims made in advertisements, or Article 11 concerning rules governing which implied health claims should not be permitted.
The European Parliament has, however, contributed a number of positive amendments, which is why we have chosen to support the report as a whole. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of this regulation.
You will agree that it would be a pity to be unable to emphasise these benefits to consumers and convey to them the fact that wine – like any food or beverage – can be part of a healthy diet and benefit a person’s general health if consumed in moderation.
Public health and consumer protection go hand in hand.
In Denmark, we wish to maintain a high level of protection, but that requires us to retain our arrangements involving a national ban on the unnecessary addition of vitamins and minerals that are harmful to health.
Only in this way can we ensure that our people have the health guarantee to which they are entitled.
The miracle envisaged for 2010 is not going to happen.
The reality in Europe is the loss of jobs and the eastward gold rush of large companies as a prelude to their final exit from Europe.
We do not share the visions of the European Parliament’s Committee on Constitutional Affairs when it comes to setting up a European External Action Service.Establishing such a service would be a step on the road towards a common foreign and security policy for the EU in which the Member States had completely handed over this policy area to the EU.
This resolution welcomes a Council Directive that turns an agreement between social partners into legislation.
This agreement between the Community of European Railways (industry) and the European Transport Workers’ Federation (trade unions) is surplus to requirements as we already have a Working Time Directive (2003/88) that does a fine job of incorporating mobile workers in its remit.
In short, the EU cannot use this directive if it wants to make a modal shift from transport by road to transport by rail and if it wants to make the EU more competitive in the framework of the Lisbon strategy.
This new agency will only be worthwhile if it can make up the shortfall in data collection mechanisms and if it can keep track of trends and processes that have not worked in the Member States.
It overlooks the fact that we have a genuine economic problem, and that what we therefore need is greater support for manufacturing.
We must also, at the earliest opportunity, carry out a thorough-going impact assessment on economic and monetary union and the rise in the value of the euro in terms of the European economy’s loss of competitiveness, and in terms of economic and social cohesion.
The June List believes, however, that each Member State must decide for itself what type of tax system it wants or how it might become a ‘competitive’ country.
At a time when we need a Social Agenda that is genuinely committed to social inclusion, what the Council did at the Spring summit moved in entirely the opposite direction – it restricted the objectives in the area of social inclusion and the fight against poverty to children, sidestepping the fact that it is impossible to help children without changing the situation for adults.
In order to relaunch the social component, the Council has tabled a new Social Agenda (2006-2010), which to my mind falls short of what might justifiably be expected.
For example, the Social Agenda attaches little importance to local economies and to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are key elements in economic development and jobs, and are responsible for over 90% of business activity in Europe.
