Subject to that proviso, we support this proposal and the request for urgent procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my point of order is not about the vote on tsunami vessels but about interpretation problems in Parliament.
I understand why you spoke in English rather than Finnish.
It is a serious matter and we shall look into it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries will let you know how much we appreciate this request for urgent procedure.
Let us firstly agree that everyone wants to give aid as quickly as possible in the most efficient way possible.
It is a nice idea, that of exporting old fishing vessels, but it would not work very well.
The FAO has still not received any lists of the vessels countries want.
From a procedural point of view, and in order to pre-empt any disputes from third parties, I ask you to draw the Council’s attention to the need, at the legislative consultation stage, to forward complete texts to Parliament, including annexes. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - (A6-0026/2005) by Mr&#160;Goebbels, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European economic situation – preparatory report on the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines [2004/2269(INI)]; - (A6-0025/2005) by Mr&#160;Karas, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on Public Finances in EMU – 2004 [2004/2268(INI)]. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on macroeconomic policy is becoming increasingly ideological.
In this context, a conservative and liberal majority distorted my preparatory report on the broad economic policy guidelines by removing all references to the need to coordinate European economic policies, even though this is required by Article 4 of the Treaty.
In order to confirm this ultraliberal pigheadedness, that majority adopted two amendments, one demanding a reduction in the general level of taxation, the other considering that an overall rise in working time is unavoidable.
The new report by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) says, however, that despite strong economic growth – more than 5% – unemployment across the world has scarcely gone down.
This probably explains why the Union is the biggest exporter of goods and services and why Germany alone is performing better than the United States, China or Japan.
There is not enough growth and there is too much unemployment, particularly in certain large countries, starting with the Union’s traditional powerhouses, Germany and France.
Without growth, however, the boldest structural measures run out of steam.
This is the view of the Economic Policy Committee, whose annual report on the structural reforms clearly states that governments ‘will only enjoy the fruits of their structural reforms in terms of growth and jobs in an appropriate macroeconomic environment’.
Whilst it is true that the euro zone’s overall deficit has increased, albeit remaining significantly inferior to that of the United States or Japan, the result will astonish the defenders of the faith.
The Stability and Growth Pact was designed to prevent public debt from leading to spiralling interest rates and thus to prevent the euro from becoming a weak currency.
In Germany and France in particular, but also in Italy, internal demand is insufficient.
All countries have reduced investment in order to limit government deficit.
Whilst certain small countries live primarily off external demand, the large countries always rely primarily on internal demand.
Furthermore, those clamouring for European competitiveness based on the social lowest bidder and on lower salaries must acknowledge that most trade is with countries with salary levels and social security costs that are similar to those of Europe.
I will restrict my comments to the report as adopted.
I have three preliminary observations here.
Firstly, the European Union is a legal Community, and although we are a legal Community, 12 Member States have breached the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact or of the Treaty since that Pact was introduced.
That is why we need a common policy framework, so that the euro can achieve its full potential and the European Union can achieve its growth and employment policy objectives.
There is however, a contradiction here: in 2002 only four Member States within the euro area, accounting in total for 18% of the euro area’s GDP, had a more or less balanced budget, rising to five euro area Member States in 2004.
My third preliminary observation is that the Lisbon strategy provides us with a basis for achieving more growth and employment, and for increasing our competitiveness.
The reality presented in the report is that over the last decade the EU economy has grown well below its potential, with a decrease not only in private investment but also in gross public investment, which in the euro area has fallen from 4% of GDP in the early 1970s to 2.4%.
The Stability and Growth Pact is a success because it highlights the political debate about the structural reforms that are required, about the failure of budget policies, and about the risks for the euro, and thus leads to political debate.
A majority of the committee supported this viewpoint.
This report, the theme of which was that we need a stronger political will as regards implementation, more courage as regards long-term reforms, a more serious approach and less excuses, also states that we need a greater willingness for reform combined with more honesty towards the public.
Germany’s present contention that the costs of reunification have so far been left out of the equation is an example of how insincere the debate has become, because Germany has complied with the stability and growth criteria since the beginning of this decade; it has gone along with the Stability and Growth Pact and has had no problems with it for 10 years.
In the case of the Lisbon strategy, five years after its approval by the European Council, we can all agree on the need to reaffirm the objectives and the pillars of the strategy, to ratify our support for them, and to express our regret that the implementation of the policies necessary to move towards achieving those objectives has been delayed.
In the case of the situation of public finances and the existing framework for monitoring the evolution of budgets and public accounts — the Stability and Growth Pact — we agree with the reference values, with the pillars established in the Treaty.
With regard to the first of the reports, I would like to explain the Commission’s point of view to you.
It is clear that the European Union, and the eurozone in particular, has a lower rate of growth than our competitors, than the other economic regions of the industrialised world, not to mention the emerging countries which have rates of growth of 6, 7 or even 10%.
That low growth creates a situation of high unemployment and lack of jobs and seriously calls into question the sustainability of our social model and the sustainability of our model of society in general.
In the Commission’s view, the role of macroeconomic policy in this regard is to sustain growth.
That task must be entrusted to the structural reforms such as those appearing in the list that the European Commission has presented.
I am optimistic about the possibility of reaching an agreement at the European Council of 22 and 23 March which maintains the principles and reference values of the Treaty, as well as the pillars of fiscal and budgetary discipline laid down in the Treaty, which we must all respect.
That agreement should improve the instruments so that the governance of the Stability and Growth Pact can prevent the failings we have experienced over recent years, contribute to helping the countries with excessive deficit problems to move towards adjustment, to comply with the reference values of the Treaty, both in terms of deficit and debt, to place more emphasis on sustainability and on the long term, because we are going to have to face the challenge of the ageing of the population and, at the same time, to create a better link between the budgetary discipline that continues to be a necessary element for growth and the growth strategy, more employment, sustainability — in other words the Lisbon Strategy — because the two strategies are linked to each other.
It will be very positive for the two important issues being debated in Parliament today and being debated in the Commission and in the Council to come together at the March European Council, so that we can reach a forward-looking agreement, improving the relationship between the two strategies and, of course, keeping a clear view of the principles of each of them.
It is unfortunate that the Socialist Group in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs chose to abstain when we voted on Mr&#160;Goebbels’ report.
The report now contains a number of practical proposals for creating higher potential for growth in Europe.
This requires changes in terms of enterprise, research and the internal market.
I think that Mr Karas was right in saying that in this debate, this Parliament is involved in a kind of battle about the direction we should take and in a debate about how to address macro-economic policy in the European Union.
Moreover, I often have the impression that we are engaged in national politics and that this House pursues national discussions rather than focusing on the European dimension.
My group prefers the approach for which the Commission has opted with regard to reforming the Stability and Growth Pact and also the approach that the Luxembourg Presidency has adopted in this regard.
I would refer to the decisions taken by the ECOFIN Council on 13 September, which clearly favour reform of the Stability and Growth Pact within the context of wider discussions and also in relation to the Lisbon strategy and the global guidelines for economic policy.
Reform of the Stability Pact should address the preventive aspects, the differences in economic developments in the Member States and the corrective aspects, while also promoting an improvement in the excessive deficit procedure.
What is of key importance in this, though, and that is something which our group would like to emphasise and which President Bush echoed recently in the context of foreign policy, is that we should pursue true macro-economic policy in Europe and, in this respect, treat Europe as an economic unit, a single entity.
I think that that should very much be part of macro-economic policy, that we do not in the first instance compete as Member States against each other, and create distinct profiles for ourselves which also need defending in terms of the Stability and Growth Pact, but that we opt for this European perspective and adopt economic policies in line with that.
In November, the Kok group recommended concentrating on a limited number of priorities.
We are also calling on the Commission to analyse best practice in the Member States and to learn from it.
Secondly, the Commission should concentrate even more on the completion of the internal market, in order clearly to demonstrate to consumers the concrete benefits of the European single market, in the form of better and cheaper products and services.
There are still barriers to trade in some areas.
We support the Commission’s wish to strengthen the preventive side of the pact, but that does not mean, as Mr&#160;Goebbels is perhaps suggesting, that it should be permissible to have a deficit of less than 3% when things are going well but to run up a deficit of over 3% in bad times.
The members of the ALDE Group on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs tabled an amendment on the necessary structural reforms in the Member States.
The text of this amendment is as follows: the European Parliament recommends that the Member States should implement the long overdue structural reforms required to achieve the improvement in the investment climate that is a prerequisite for economic growth.
What matters here is that we highlight the enormous importance of structural reforms for economic growth, and make it clear that responsibility for this lies with the Member States.
Only in that way can we make rapid progress towards achieving the Lisbon objectives. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, a well-respected French economist has recently published a book entitled ‘’ (The politics of powerlessness), and I believe that this is a feeling that many of our fellow citizens can justifiably empathise with.
I would add, however, that the politics of powerlessness is in fact a deliberate strategy chosen since Maastricht, since 1992, which is broadly based on three axes: the structural reform of the markets –&#160;as we call it in our jargon&#160;– the reduction of public deficit and the focus on conquering external markets.
We have the impression that discussions on the Stability and Growth Pact are conducted on the margins and that if we truly want to achieve the best results, we must pursue a more proactive policy at euro zone level, one in which ministers ultimately share a support framework based on more ambitious objectives and in which efforts are channelled into achieving convergence between the different national economies.
As I do not have much time, I shall mention three of these objectives.
The first objective, in my view, is to implement massive reductions in taxation on labour and to seek alternative ways of funding social security systems, taking account of the diverse nature of each country.
I feel that it is very important, however, to be able to say to the citizens that people who work – people who have the opportunity to work – must be able to make a decent living from their work.
I believe that this can be achieved by means of massive reductions in taxation on labour.
The second objective – you will not be surprised to learn – is that we need high-quality growth, which means saving more energy and polluting much less.
Please look at the Commission’s documents on the assessment of the Community’s sustainable development strategy: the results are abysmal, hence the urgent need for a sea change in this regard.
Thirdly and lastly, we must support internal demand in the Union.
I say that because the only thing that the political priorities set out in the report before us can achieve is a further increase in the investment returns of European global players and export companies.
He has recognised that high economic growth is necessary to achieve low unemployment, to pay pensions and to achieve what is here called 'social cohesion' or 'social protection'.
Several speakers have blamed the Stability and Growth Pact.
These difficulties occur because the whole spirit of the EU is to use centralised direction in a vain attempt to achieve an idealised society by making laws and restricting activity.
In trying to achieve our ideals by means of coercion, we kill off the source of our wealth.
It commands the confidence both of the citizens of Europe and of the business and investor communities.
For the European Union to succeed, there must be broad economic coordination from the 25 Member States.
The bottom line is that some countries are running up serious budget deficits, which is clearly in breach of EMU criteria.
Some countries want the rules governing the operation of the single currency regime to be opened up and made more flexible.
I feel that this is an issue at which EU governments should look carefully so as to ensure that they can build the necessary infrastructure projects in the transport, energy and telecommunications fields.
I am not taking a belligerent approach with regard to the operation of EMU criteria, but we cannot allow the situation to go on forever where countries are running up large budget deficits and are clearly in breach of so-called strict rules governing the operation of the single currency regime.
This does not only apply to this continent, although the situation here is particularly difficult, because we have a large middle class that is breaking up.
I am therefore sorry to see that this report does not suggest any real approach for counteracting this.
The first approach to adopt must be to create genuine transparency, so as to ensure that these discrepancies are at least clear for all to see. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we are discussing the Lisbon strategy and how Europe is intended to become the most competitive region in the world.
We have not managed to achieve that over the last five years, and we have now identified the chief culprit: the Stability and Growth Pact!
Commissioner Almunia, your predecessor, the Spanish Socialist Mr&#160;Solbes, assured this House on several occasions that the Stability and Growth Pact is sufficiently flexible, and I am bound to agree with him.
What I cannot accept is that we should keep the 3% and 60% criteria and then, as Chancellor Schröder has done, seek to have certain factors excluded in the run up to or even after the procedure.
If we are to take Lisbon seriously, then we first have to take the Stability and Growth Pact seriously, and not use the argument that ten Member States are in breach of it.
We need to take it seriously when framing EU legislation, so that in future every new directive is checked to see whether it conflicts with the Lisbon objectives or promotes them.
I would say to Mr Radwan that the question before us is not whether we are exceeding the speed limit, but whether we want to drive slowly in a Mercedes, and it strikes me that, at the moment, this is more or less the case with the Stability and Growth Pact.
I should like to make three comments on the Stability and Growth Pact.
Firstly, I feel that a good reform is one that provides the Union with a macroeconomic instrument with which to implement the Lisbon Strategy.
The third point I should like to make is that, in terms of the way in which we assess the situation in the Member States, it cannot in fact be said that everything takes place on a level playing field.
At the moment, two countries such as France and Germany are in a situation in which they are both responsible for and the victim of a state of affairs that no Member State, in the euro zone or in the EU as a whole, is taking advantage of.
I believe that there are four points on which we can agree and our experience of reforms tells us that these may have a positive influence on economics.
We must devote attention to structural reforms, however these are impossible without fiscal measures.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the reports on public finances in EMU and the state of the European economy do not under any circumstances take account of grass-roots problems which are common to the workers of the Member States in that their cause is the same: the anti-grass roots policy of the European Union.
The fact that these are common problems is clear from the workers' demonstrations being held in most countries against the cost of living, unemployment, low wages, redundancies, the privatisation of the health, education and welfare sectors, longer working times, insecurity and uncertainty about the future.
In other words, it is always the workers who pay, never the plutocracy.
These are the European Union philosophies and policies which cause the workers to express their feelings by staying away from elections, such as the European elections, for which there was a 40% turnout, or the recent referendum in Spain on the so-called European Constitution, for which there was a 35-40% turnout.
However, the best response is a fight in the form of organised disobedience to this policy and a counter-attack designed to bring about its radical change. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, growth in the EU is clearly below what it potentially could be.
A country with a debt ratio of less than 60% of GDP and which keeps inflation below 2% will have a decreasing debt ratio if its economy grows in real terms by one percentage point or more and if the budget deficit amounts to 3%.
The budget deficit could, then, amount to 7%, and the debt ratio would be stable in the case of such a deficit.
Such a budget deficit is defensible in the long term.
A limited deficit of 3% means that the national debt is continually decreasing as a percentage of GDP.
I recommend that the Stability and Growth Pact be altered along these lines. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the need for reform of the Stability Pact is also clear from the report on public finances in EMU.
The Pact undoubtedly has an important role in terms of stability, but also needs to act as a stimulus to growth.
Since the debate in September, Parliament appears to have adopted a passive stance, whereas it should instead be exercising a key role in the reform process, above all allowing all Members and groups to give a clear outline of the possible strategies.
We cannot state in our documents that we have to become the most competitive economy in the world, while at the same time the figures are clearly showing growth to be stagnating.
The resources we spend on paying interests and paying off public debt will mean less resources for guaranteeing finances.
When they became aware that that transition was possible, they concluded that the transition was complete and that they had already arrived at communism.
There is no need to weaken macroeconomic stability, but it is essential that we continue to insist more strongly, more vigorously, on structural reforms as the only guarantee, the only serious formula, for achieving growth. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Karas said earlier that we are dealing here with decisions about our future direction, and he is quite right there.
However, you can only make decisions about your direction if you can see the horizon.
To be capable of making decisions about future direction, you have to be up to date in your analysis and your proposals, and I can tell most of the Members in the Conservative group that they, of all people, are not up to date with their proposals in these two reports, and not in a position to see the horizon.
Europe and its Member States need structural reforms.
But you know very well that structural reforms can only work, and can only lead to more growth and higher employment if they form part of an active industrial policy, part of an active policy for small and medium-sized enterprises and part of a budgetary policy appropriate to our economic situation.
You should read your texts through once before you adopt them, that would be a great help!
That is why you can only hope to get our agreement if you vote for some reasonable amendments.
Behind a supposed dispute between Keynesians and liberals on the issues of the instruments of short-term economic policy and the use of public spending, for 25 years we have seen public spending spiral out of control and systematic deterioration, in a number of large countries, particularly in terms of debt, which prevents our children from taking control of their own futures.
My fear, Mr President, is that the institutions and the EU will be reduced to being the chorus in a classical tragedy in which the actual protagonists are the national governments. &#160;&#160; – In light of the reality of the deteriorating economic and social situation in most EU countries, the Stability and Growth Pact is finally being called into question, albeit late in the day, and only when France and Germany have failed to comply.
Unfortunately, the perspectives that have been set out for the 8 March ECOFIN Council will mean more of the same when they come to be implemented.
The so-called flexible application of the Stability and Growth Pact would depend on a country’s greater or lesser capacity to place at risk public social security, pension and health systems and, as some people have pointed out, public administration reforms.
In other words, the more a Member State implements policies and objectives enshrined in the Lisbon Strategy that we consider extremely onerous, the greater its flexibility to implement the Stability Pact, and this would be unacceptable. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to explore the subject in depth in the short time available to me, so I shall merely highlight a number of issues.
Thirdly, a systematic analysis of the economic situation of the EU as a whole and of the individual Member States must be carried out every three or four years and feedback given, in order both to identify any progress achieved and to make it possible to react quickly enough to any problems.
Members of this House need only stir themselves to look at the population statistics.
The 1992 Nobel Prize winner Gary Becker has gone so far as to say that the family, and work carried out within the family, account for as much as 30% of national income.
The French economic Jean-Didier Lecaillon has made similar comments, and I could give examples of others, notably by John Paul&#160;II, whose voice carries particular weight.
Charles de Gaulle is recognised by all as a true statesman, and he was entirely serious when he said that if you are poor and have no other options, you must invest in the family. .
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report provides a host of proposals to do away with the deficit that was created when the Lisbon strategy was carried out.
I would specifically like to express my appreciation for paragraph 7 of the report, which underlines the important role that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) actually play in the creation of jobs and prosperity in general.
It is of major importance that a climate be created which encourages the entrepreneurial spirit among young people, a climate in which the administrative burden and the tax burden are substantially reduced and in which SMEs have easier access to risk capital.
In this House, the Socialist Group willingly cultivates a certain degree of ambiguity when it comes to the principles of economic policy.
Having discovered Keynesianism a little too late, Mr&#160;Goebbels would like to bring it into all recipes and all sauces, even when it is not called for.
I believe that the proposal arrived at by the committee is unacceptable for us Social Democrats for three reasons.
Those making the proposal, as it now stands, are even worse than the Commission in the way that, in general, they emphasise only the first pillar of the Lisbon Process when what is required is reciprocity between the pillars.
It would be regrettable if the PPE-DE Group were to adopt this neo-liberal policy and make it its own.
At the same time, since enlargement there has been a significant rise in the economic aspirations of citizens, and in particular of those in the new EU Member States, such as my country, Poland.
EU citizens expect the real economic growth they have repeatedly been promised in recent years, for example at EU summits.
Yet they also expect justice and equal treatment for all Member States.
By condoning large budget deficits in countries such as Germany or France, but coming down heavily on other weaker and poorer countries if they dare to have a deficit, the EU is putting into practice an idea familiar to us from Orwell’s ‘Animal Farm’, namely that all men are equal, but some are more equal than others.
This does nothing to bolster the EU’s authority in the eyes of the other Member States.
In short, it is a scandal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues Mr Goebbels and Mr Karas for their work in preparing the reports on public finances.
As we know, growth in the EU has not been as good as we expected.
Due to a lack of structural reforms and low investment, growth in GDP is not satisfactory.
The goal of the Pact was to balance the budgets of Member States and to create budget surpluses by 2003.
The idea behind this was for the Member States to pay off their debts in the good times and to ensure, by reforming the structures of the public sector, that their budgets could be kept balanced in the bad times as well.
The Member States who have done their share and have kept their public finances in check – especially my country, Finland – have to suffer as a result of the irresponsibility of the Member States that just do not care!
Unfortunately it now seems inevitable that some elements of flexibility will be added to the Pact.
Firstly, the rules should be same for all Member States and the criteria should be objective.
Secondly, no expenditure, such as public investments or research funding, should be automatically excluded from public expenditure: these exceptions would provide an opportunity for Member States to interpret them in a very innovative way.
It is only fair that those Member States that have paid their debts and have reduced their deficits should have some flexibility, but those who have not done anything should not be given any more room for manoeuvre.
Firstly, the Commission proposals mainly focus on current budget deficit, whilst attaching less importance to public debt.
This means that tighter deficit limits should be set for countries with very high levels of debt than for those with low levels of debt.
Secondly, the method used to calculate deficits must make allowance for the particular situation of those of the new Member States that have embarked upon the difficult task of reforming their pension systems.
In these countries, expenditure associated with these reforms has risen on a temporary basis because it is necessary both to finance current pensions and to establish pension funds for future generations.
Although it is true that such expenditure increases demand throughout the EU, it also helps implement the key principle of solidarity.
Such a solution could also make it easier to reach a compromise on the size of the European Union’s budget for 2007-2013.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are talking about competitiveness, but competitiveness relates directly to currency exchange rates.
While all our competitors are focusing on competitiveness and growth, we are focussing on waste and debt.
Keep the Lisbon strategy, but make sure the monetary policy applied by the Central Bank also helps.
The European Central Bank needs to relax monetary policy so that the Member States can tighten up their public finance policy, especially on the spending side.
As long as we confuse prudence with inflexibility, we shall have neither prudence, nor growth nor competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the Goebbels report and would like to congratulate our fellow Member on his excellent approach to the topic, with its focus on striking a balance between the obvious need to revitalise economic and growth policy in Europe and the aim of stability and the conditions for achieving it.
It is not reasonable to approve a report which does not face up to the need for greater coordination of the economic policies of Member States, nor can we agree that a statement of this sort goes against the autonomy of the monetary authorities.
Similarly, no one would reasonably state that a general and generic increase in working hours would be viable or effective.
To conclude, I believe the document contains some important pointers and is a creditable effort, but on certain issues the balance needs to be restored, leaving ideological claims aside and thereby making a useful contribution to the debate on the economy now being conducted throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Member States have committed themselves to bringing their budgets close to balance or into surplus.
That is a commitment under the Stability and Growth Pact, and countries such as Germany have breached it by running up deficits.
What the then German Finance Minister Theo Waigel secured agreement to in 1997 in the interests of Europe was a seriously meant guarantee of stable prices, budgetary discipline and the ability to react to structural changes, such as the need to finance a society with an increasingly elderly age profile.
Berlin wants to abolish the excessive deficit procedure, while the smaller countries in the euro area are quite rightly insisting that this pact should be observed to the letter.
They have done their homework.
Mr Juncker told the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that there was no question of changing the 3% threshold and the excessive deficit procedure.
I support my colleague Mr Karas’ excellent report; we must not play fast and loose with confidence in the euro. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this is a constructive report by Mr&#160;Goebbels and the committee that presented it.
I also wish to thank Commissioner Almunia for a thoughtful contribution and for his commitment to a reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, as presented.
My contribution in this House today will focus upon two of the most important issues for Europe.
The Conservatives and Liberals here in Parliament focus upon structural reforms – about which we are prepared to negotiate, I should like to say – not only in the European Parliament but also in our individual states.
I would add one thing, however: Europe’s main problems do not only include the need for structural reforms; its second big problem is that demand in our countries is too low.
My personal experience as a prime minister and as a party president in Europe is that we do not get our people’s support for reforms if there is not simultaneous demand and growth in our societies; or, to put it another way: there can be no successful reforms without economic growth, and no sustainable economic growth without reforms.
What the European dimension genuinely involves is our learning to do things simultaneously.
There is a shortage of demand in the internal market, and this is something that we can remedy at the same time if all the finance ministers, together with Mr&#160;Almunia, decide to invest in the Lisbon objectives over the next four years.
More growth so that Europe can play the leading role it deserves in the world economy, since, otherwise, the world economy will not have balanced growth.
Together with a firm Stability Pact, we need structural reforms.
The reverse is also true: economic growth in Europe is not possible without reforms.
Particularly in Germany and France, which are major states with an excessively high government activity rate, high taxes and overly complex social systems, reforms are a prerequisite for economic growth.
We are today discussing the Goebbels and Karas reports, in which the difficulties we face with a common monetary policy combined with decentralised budgetary and finance policies become apparent.
The political intention to reform the Stability and Growth Pact will shake the very foundations of the Maastricht Treaty and of European monetary union.
The citizens of Europe were given an undertaking that state borrowing would be reduced, an undertaking that after just six years is being reneged upon.
The objective of these rules is to maintain credibility and trust regardless of the government in power at any given time.
The Commission wants to introduce new rules for economically good times.
If the existing means of bringing pressure to bear do not work, how can we expect this to work voluntarily when the economic situation is favourable?
That requires structural reforms such as those the Commission has proposed in its Communication on the review and revitalisation of the Lisbon Strategy.
If we do not increase the growth potential, the medium- and long-term sustainability of our economy and our social model will not be possible and short-term macroeconomic stability and budgetary stability will be seriously jeopardised by the lack of growth.
So that is our analysis and, on that basis, macroeconomic policy, as the Kok report states — and I completely agree on this point — must support a strategy of structural reforms which increases growth potential in order to sustain that growth and in order to prevent the lack of liquidity, funding and demand from jeopardising our ability to take advantage of all the growth possibilities that we have achieved as a result of the reforms.
I would like to make it clear once again, and I will continue to do so whenever necessary, that neither the Commission's proposal nor the currently unanimous position of all the Ecofin ministers, proposes excluding any category of spending from the calculation of the deficit.
What we are considering, in accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty, is what important factors should be taken into account when analysing why there has been excessive deficit and what should be done in order to recover the situation of balance, the sustainability of the public finances, in order to bring the level of deficit below the reference value.
With regard to the excessive deficit procedure, and this is the most difficult point in our discussion, we are discussing how that procedure should be launched.
It is very important that there be cooperation between the two institutions, the Council and the Commission, and it is extremely important that there be support and debate in Parliament, such as the one taking place today, and there will undoubtedly be further such debates in the future.
You have mentioned, and I share this concern, the credibility of the Economic and Monetary Union and, in particular, the credibility of our single currency on the markets.
The markets will not understand if there is no agreement in the March European Council, and all of us, each according to our respective responsibilities, must make the greatest possible effort to ensure that that agreement is concluded and published on 23 March in the European Council's conclusions.
Her aim was to make specific cultural aspects of the city, region or country concerned accessible to the European public.
After 20 years of the European Capital of Culture programme, we can draw some conclusions, as identified in the Palmer study of August 2004.
Although the European Capital of Culture has a special attraction for people interested in culture, the European aspect has not totally caught on.
The cultural dimension is often overshadowed by political ambitions, and the European dimension has not always been in the forefront.
The Capital of Culture can only be a sustainable project if it is integrated into the development of the city as part of a long-term cultural development strategy.
A great deal has changed over the last 20 years as regards cultural and artistic development in cities, particularly in the European Union, making it necessary to amend the decision adopted at that time.
For example, the sequence of cities to be nominated up to 2019 does not take account of the 10 new Member States which joined the EU on enlargement in May last year.
We could not justify making these countries wait until 2019 for their turn.
The common position before us is deficient in some respects and does not meet all the requirements needed to implement the changes in a more open, democratic and transparent way.
However, in order not to jeopardise the preparatory work in hand for the cultural capitals in 2009, 2010 and subsequent years – and especially those in Austria and Germany – I would urge you to approve this common position at second reading, on condition that the Commission, which has already promised this and has started work on it, brings forward a new draft by June this year at the latest.
This new proposal should meet the following requirements: the level of financial resources will need to be adjusted if there are to be two cultural capitals as from 2009; the present level of financial commitment ranges from EUR 200&#160;000 and EUR 1&#160;million per project.
Clear criteria need to be established in order to provide the highest level of funding possible.
At present, an average of EUR 500&#160;000 is granted per cultural capital, which in the case of a budget proposal such as that being put forward by Linz corresponds to a contribution of 0.83%.
The European Union is certainly not making a generous contribution here.
This should be taken into account as regards the financial endowment and in the cultural programme, and in the 2007-2013 financial perspective.
For example, in 2009 Austria and Lithuania will enter the race with only one city each, but they will need to comply absolutely with the criteria of the selection procedure.
According to the 1999 decision on the European Capital of Culture, the objective of the programme is to highlight the wealth and variety of European cultures – as well as what they have in common – and to contribute towards better mutual understanding on the part of Europe’s citizens.
The sole purpose of the Commission’s proposal, which you have before you now, is to enable the ten new Member States to participate in this cultural activity as soon as possible from a position of parity with the other Member States, thus applying the principle of equality.
This means that, beginning in 2009, the new Member States will be hosting the European Capital of Culture, both in cooperation and in competition with the other Member States.
In the second phase, as requested by the European Parliament, I am proposing a further change to the Council before this summer, which will mean an in-depth analysis or an in-depth review of the selection procedure for this Community activity.
As was rightly pointed out by Christa Prets, this proposal should include, among other things, the European dimension in cooperation, how to strengthen it, the role of the selection panel, national competition and so on.
In actual fact, many of these questions or concerns have already been raised in the first reading and I shall of course take them into account when formulating the next steps to be taken.
As regards the second reading, I am delighted that the report has also been accepted by the Committee on Culture and Education, thus approving the joint position of the Council, which is along the same lines as the Commission’s proposal.
This means that this decision can be made relatively quickly, but of course on the basis of correct procedure.
Only ministers can come up with such ideas: the Members of this House were already wiser back then.
I totally support that, as it will also mean cooperation between two cultural capitals.
In 2010, for example, that will involve a German city and a Hungarian one.
In short, we will need more money for the cultural capitals in future, and that should also be provided under the financial framework.
I believe, unlike Mrs&#160;Prets, that each country should submit at least two cities to the European jury for selection.
Taking Germany as an example, I would like to remind you just how much excitement and creativity has been generated in the German cultural world over the last few years because ten cities have been competing to become the European Capital of Culture.
I simply believe that this amazing level of activity will only come about if there is competition between cities.
But all the others that applied have stirred up an incredible amount of excitement in their city, in their and in the surrounding area.
I would simply ask that in future the jury should pay more attention to what might be called the beacon effect of these cities.
Europe’s cities are the beacons of our history and of our cultural diversity.
I also welcome the idea of enlarging the European Capital of Culture initiative to include the new Member States.
Some people perhaps think it would be better to have only one Capital of Culture per year, alternating yearly between the EU 15 of the old Member States and the EU 10 of new Member States.
That would be a logical solution, but many old Member States have already waited a long time to enjoy the prestige and to have the possibility of having a Capital of Culture.
It is the responsibility of the Commission, the governments and the city councils, as well as of the media.
In 2010, Hungary and Germany will host and provide a site for the Capital of Culture of Europe.
Frankly, Budapest, even without a title, is one of the permanent culture capitals with its flourishing cultural life, but this possibility would be a special occasion.
It is amazing to see that in all 11&#160;Hungarian cities, the local politicians, NGOs, citizens young and old, are very active in the common cause of the contest.
In this way, the contest itself offers a chance for common cultural activities in all the competing cities.
You can always find individual areas where things could be done still better, but all in all we have seen that for all these cities the process of self-understanding – with meetings across Europe opening their eyes to European horizons – has helped to strengthen not only the identity of those cities but also a new understanding within Europe.
Mrs&#160;Pack was quite right to say that we now recognise that it was a mistake not to include Eastern Europe in the decision adopted in 1999.
So we are right to be correcting that error here now and to provide for a new arrangement as from 2009, on the basis of which not just one country from the old Member States but also a city from one of the Eastern European Member States is also included.
Against the background of their application to become a cultural capital, many cities have developed their own development plan, and these development plans, regardless of whether these cities have subsequently been nominated by their countries or not, give a tremendous boost to development.
Furthermore, it means that opportunities for the development of additional tourism are opened up, opportunities that subsequently also give these cities greater potential for development and a chance to present themselves in an attractive light.
If you take Germany as an example, where 10 cities are applying for 2010, including Potsdam, the capital of my own , Brandenburg, you can see even now, in 2005, the commitment the are showing in their work to present these cities during the preselection period.
I can very well imagine that it would be possible for each country whose turn it is to nominate at least two cities.
What we do need, though, is identical preselection criteria in the Member States and in the European Union, meaning that the jury would have to work according to the same criteria.
Ammohostos has been a dead city for 30 years and is the only dead city in the world.
Come and let us make it the capital of culture and win where all the plans have lost including, a few months ago, the Annan plan.
It is a good idea: for us to take decisions where diplomacy cannot, for us to take decisions where denial is particularly distressing.
Come and let us give real meaning to this initiative.
It is an important matter; Mr&#160;Figel opens up this city and the main square will one day be renamed Jean Figel Square.
Of course, governments and local authorities can give monies to their own cities, but there is a wider European dimension which requires extra financing at European level.
We saw the example of Patras, on 6&#160;May of last year, which was named European capital of culture for 2006 by unanimous Council decision, despite the jury’s opinion to the contrary.
I should like to congratulate our rapporteur, not least for all the financial benefit that she has brought.
Luxembourg objects somewhat to Mrs&#160;Pack’s criticisms, because we have, already for 2007, named the city of Sibiu –&#160;a town in another country, Romania, a candidate country&#160;– as partner city.
Luxembourg has expanded its project across the entire region – Sarre, Rhénanie-Palatinat, Wallonie, Lorraine and the German-speaking part of Belgium – in other words, five regions and three different languages.
Currently, 70% of us live in cities.
The city is our closest cultural environment.
Noise and pollution have become significant cultural factors.
Commissioner, cities should be developed into the cultural hubs of a knowledge-based economy, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy.
The European Capital of Culture is a highly prestigious award, but the city concerned is not expected to use European Capital of Culture funding from the Community for urban regeneration or other works of that ilk.
The funding specifically earmarked for the programme is expected to help to highlight its role as a European city and as a cultural hub.
I support the report by Mrs Prets and, in general, what has been said by previous speakers.
Anyone who was in Lille last year when the city held the title of European Capital of Culture, or who has been in Cracow, which shared the title of Capital of Culture with eight other European cities in 2000, or indeed in many other Capitals of Culture, cannot have failed to notice the public’s enormous interest in Europe and the great enthusiasm demonstrated by the large numbers of citizens who took part in remarkable cultural events.
Although there are no plans for this at present, provision should be made in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective for a special and separate budget to support this idea.
The EU should provide technical and artistic support to assist those who will be in charge of organising forthcoming celebrations of the common Europe and its Cultural Capitals over the next few years. &#160;&#160; I welcome the proposal whereby from 2009 the new Member States of the European Union will also have the opportunity to stand as candidates for the ‘European capital of culture’ event.
However, during the time of the holiday at least, we are more intensively preoccupied with the importance and value of culture, and we attend events that we would not normally find the time to attend.
Preserving one’s own culture and enjoying the diversity and richness of other nations must be and must remain our guiding principle, since it is culture that is the least intrusive link between nations that wish to live in peace and mutual cooperation.
The European capital of culture makes it possible for us to forge such links.
This is good for European culture, for the European Union and for the future of Europe.
We must do this to promote the European dimension and many other issues that have either already been raised or will be discussed at a later stage.
The spirit of cooperation should be rather broader.
Culture should be seen as a relationship between peoples and nations and all their ancient traditions.
As Mr Graça Moura and Mr Crowley mentioned, spiritual and architectural heritage and the human dimension should be taken into account.
I should like to thank Members for their positive responses and support.
This item is therefore dealt with and the vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Ries on the European Environment and Health Action Plan. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I do anything else I should like to offer my warm thanks to all of the Members of this House who have shown great interest in this important subject.
The Commission responded to these figures in June 2003 by launching the SCALE environment and health strategy, which stands for Science, Children, Awareness, Legal instruments, Evaluation.
This initiative gave rise to much hope, which was well summed up by Commissioner Wallström’s statement during the debate in plenary in March of last year.
The 52 European environment and health ministers who gathered in Budapest last June for a conference on the theme of ‘A future for our children’ took this on board when they placed emphasis on the delicate yet necessary balance between more research and the urgent need to take preventative action to protect people’s health.
More specifically, in paragraph 6, we call for the precautionary principle to be applied to a range of substances that are damaging to health, particularly certain heavy metals, such as mercury and cadmium, six products from the phthalate family used in PVC plastics and four insecticides suspected of being, , endocrine disruptors and at the root of serious malformations.
Reinforcing this European plan is also a matter of drawing inspiration from the ambitious actions already put in place by the Member States, and achieving success.
I mention these in points 23 and 28 of the resolution.
I am also delighted that Members of this House support the approach that I have taken aimed at placing children at the heart of this Action Plan, including the request that the Commission should carry out an epidemiological study on children, from birth to 18 years of age.
A further crucial aspect is the fight against passive smoking.
Let us be clear on this issue: as far as I am concerned, the message that we send out to the public, covered in point 20 of the resolution, must not be watered down in any way.
In conclusion, I hope that the Commission proves to be ambitious in implementing this Action Plan for the next six years.
You can, of course, rely on our support in Parliament to obtain the appropriate financing to meet the challenges that I have just spoken about, under the seventh research framework programme and in chapter four of the financial perspectives.
Furthermore, I hope that you are predisposed towards your services drawing up a green paper on pollution inside buildings, from crèches to homes and schools, which remains the poor relation of environmental legislation.
All of which is to say that Europe must learn the lessons from the scandals of smoking and asbestos, to name but two.
Europe is involved in a race against time, and against all forms of pollution.
I should particularly like to thank Mrs Ries for all her constructive efforts to improve the content of the report, so that the final text constitutes a substantive and useful basis for all further debate.
Indeed, having recognised for some time that environmental protection helps to improve health, we have already done a great deal of work in this sector.
The forthcoming environmental and other legislation, including the REACH proposals and measures which will be taken within the framework of thematic strategies, will be of even greater help in resolving the outstanding problems.
The objective of the action plan is to further promote this work and, at the same time, to determine the agenda for the future.
As regards the conclusions of the report, I should like to start by assuring you that the precautionary principle is an important essential element of our policy and we do, of course, intend to continue to apply it in the future.
It can indeed be an essential element in our policy for risk evaluation, as the report suggests.
Nonetheless, the Commission would like first to carefully examine all aspects of the problem, both technical and financial, in the light of experience gained from third countries, such as the United States.
If the measures in the action plan are to be implemented, the question of financing needs to be addressed, as Mrs Ries has quite rightly noted and emphasised.
The Commission is engaged in intensive consultations on the detailed arrangements for applying the various measures included in the action plan.
Another particularly important issue which is necessary for the application of the action plan is the regular submission of reports to the European Parliament.
Of course, progress on certain issues, such as efficiency and the cost-benefit ratio may not be possible in the short term.
Within this framework, all the data and information needed simply do not exist.
As regards the ban on substances, an issue on which Mrs&#160;Ries spoke earlier, dangerous substances are an issue which particularly concerns the Commission.
However, the action plan is not the most suitable framework for debating possible bans.
We have already laid down procedures for evaluating and reducing the risk of many of these substances.
These procedures which, as I said, already exist, will continue to progress alongside the action plan.
The Commission is carefully examining the proposal in the report to increase the number of priorities in the action plan.
That is why, on the basis of the contribution of these 300 experts, we have not limited the focus to children alone, because there are directly related issues and we therefore also have to examine adults.
To close, I should like to stress that, if the action plan is to be applied effectively, active and close cooperation is needed with all the agencies involved.
That is why I should like once again to thank Mrs Ries and the European Parliament for their important contribution in this sector.
Our common objective is to promote stronger European measures to improve health and environmental protection for all Europeans, for Europe and for the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010 before us today, combined with the proposals from our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Ries, is equal to the heavy demands we are making of it.
Furthermore, it could enable our legislation to become preventive, which is perhaps even more valuable.
Some projects will certainly be completed by 2010.
Most of the actions will, however, extend beyond 2010.
The relationship between humankind and the environment is subject to constant change and often requires new actions and reactions.
The action plan will, however, be successful only if we do not implement it in isolation from the necessary economic processes and pressures and from people’s lifestyles.
It will be successful only if we monitor research results as regards their general validity instead of treating the world like a laboratory.
Paragraph 5 of the resolution contained in the report is doubtless well intentioned, but even the precautionary principle can only be applied if there is an appreciable risk and firm findings.
Much the same applies to the substances listed in paragraph 6, which are to be replaced by other substances.
Apart from the fact that available substitutes are costly, we also know little about the risks of exposure to them.
The action programme itself is disappointing.
Whilst I do, of course, recognise the need for research, an action programme also requires strong measures to tackle health problems, and those measures are lacking.
Although our group accepted the text as approved in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, we did actually want a stricter approach.
We would therefore call for active policy to ban smoking in public places.
The environment and health report is topical.
Air pollution, in particular, is an important problem in Europe.
Little imagination is required to assume that deaths occur more frequently among people living near motorways and industrial areas than in people living in leafy and exclusive residential areas.
Over the past 20 years, Europe has, of course, taken measures that have brought about major reductions in emissions.
Also, we should question whether the limits and limit values in legislation are adequate.
A European approach is required to protect the environment, health and the consumer.
In the framework of the Lisbon process, ambitious environmental policy is an incentive for technological development and for boosting European competitiveness.
I prefer an ambitious Europe with adequate measures to protect public health, and we should make those soot filters compulsory without delay.
This report on the European Environment and Health Action Plan concentrates too much on chemicals.
Too little attention is paid to many other things that have an adverse affect on human health.
It is clear that there are risks associated with chemicals, but there is little point in drawing up blacklists and thus stigmatising certain substances such as phthalates.
The report is based on an exaggerated interpretation of the precautionary principle.
It talks about direct and total bans on certain substances without basing them on scientific findings, or without taking account of known scientific findings, as is customary with the precautionary principle.
The priority objective of environmental policy should not be to exclude risks, but to identify and eliminate dangers.
The report also overshoots the mark when it comes to dealing with tobacco smoke.
It is not for Europe to determine where you can and cannot smoke.
Statistics are a boring matter, but business people in your countries will now have to write many new reports, if you vote for this.
I say this in advance, so that you can tell them what Parliament has done to make many of those statistical reports unnecessary.
Therefore I simply wanted to let you know what Parliament has done in cooperation with the Council and the Commission in order to reduce that statistical load.
It is also anticipated that the European Commission and Member States will have to prepare a method of evaluating whether it is worthwhile introducing new statistical reports and whether these would be of value to European business and the people of Europe.
We are actually dealing here, for the first time, with part of the series of Bilateral Agreements with Switzerland, and I feel that the rapid way we have dealt with this in this House demonstrates that we want to see the positive results achieved finally transposed into legislation.
This has been discussed with representatives from other groups and is a technical rather than a political matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, to add to what Ms in 't Veld said, that Amendment 20 should have added at the end: 'or by way of an official act that, depending upon the legislation in the Member States, may take the form of one or more legislative or regulatory act or a contract'.
Following on from that are oral amendments to Modifications 10 and 17 and recital Q. &#160;&#160; Mr President, to be completely clear, it means that we have oral amendments on recitals Q and paragraph 19 of this document.
Provide is to run or monitor. &#160;&#160; We will take that oral amendment before we start voting on that section.
This concerns three amendments and five paragraphs.
Amendment 20, with an addition, has just been read out by Mr Purvis.
The text of Amendment 21, which is almost identical to Amendment 19, reads as follows: ' The public service task must be assigned by way of an official act that, depending on the legislation in Member States, may take the form of a legislative or regulatory act or a contract.
Therefore, if the plenary adopts that principle, it will also apply to the four paragraphs I have mentioned.
If you would be kind enough to remind us of Mr Purvis’s oral amendment at each vote, I believe that it would be clearer for the House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think that will be complicated.
That is what I am saying. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not wish to complicate matters, but Mrs in&#160;'t&#160;Veld is asking us to vote once and for all on Mr Purvis’ amendment.
Quite frankly, as there are four crucial amendments, Amendments 20, 19, 21 and 15, I would prefer it if we were asked each time whether we were adopting them subject to the oral amendment by Mr Purvis.
I understand what Mrs in&#160;'t&#160;Veld is saying, but I would like her to tell me exactly where she is going to put Mr Purvis’ amendment, as she has said that it appears throughout the text.
I think this is confused and I do not want us to make a mistake with this vote, because, as you said yourself, this is a sensitive text. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I hope I can help you.
I would therefore like to table it once again as an oral amendment.
If that were the case, he should have made a complaint to the secretariat of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which normally does a good job.
So in the interests of fairness we should vote on the amendment now. &#160;&#160; If the amendment was adopted in committee and there were no amendments to it, then it is in the text.
The Secretary of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did his job: he consolidated the votes after the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and sent the result to every political group to be verified.
The Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has not, so far, deemed it necessary to table this amendment again or to point out a material error in it.
Therefore, and out of respect for the meeting of the coordinators last night, I would ask you, in accordance with what this House has already decided, given that several Members have stood up, not to take on board this amendment. &#160;&#160; We have to stand by the decision of the House, which was to not accept the oral amendment.
Zug and Schwyz, in particular, offer services of this kind.
The responses to my written questions have shown that the former Commissioner Bolkestein preferred to ignore this and wanted to continue to do business with Switzerland as a whole.
It is therefore essential that a computerised system be set up whereby such information can be exchanged between Member States and accessed rapidly throughout EU territory.
Without prejudice to the various Member States fully exercising their sovereignty, it is widely acknowledged nowadays that different countries must work together to fight crime.
As such, when the law of one Member State is broken, the security of all Member States is put in jeopardy.
Accordingly, I broadly agree with the content of this report, and therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; We, Mrs&#160;Segelström, Mr&#160;Andersson, Mrs&#160;Hedh, Mrs&#160;Hedkvist&#160;Petersen and Mrs&#160;Westlund voted in favour of the report but wish now to indicate our differing position on one issue.
The principle of the free sifting of evidence is basic to the Swedish criminal law of procedure.
It is thus extremely important to us Swedish Social Democrats that our national system be kept intact.
What is more, it is doubtful whether there is any legal basis at all, be it in current treaties or in the forthcoming Constitution, for harmonisation in this respect. &#160;&#160; Strengthening mutual trust in decisions by European courts by setting up an evaluation system may appear commendable, even if there now already exists a common framework of reference for the Member States in terms of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Justice, which lays down minimum standards governing the right to trial by the courts.
The proposal is, however, one more example of the creeping extension of the EU’s competences and constitutes a stage in the attempt to create a harmonised European system of criminal law and of laws relating to judicial procedure – a legal system that, in practice, will be outside people’s direct control.
This is particularly true of criminal justice, which should reflect a society’s concerns in light of its present and its past.
Similarly, Member States are hesitant to allow their nationals, and even mere residents in their countries, to be tried by other Member States.
This calls for cooperation in order to ensure that crime is tackled effectively, and harmonisation in order to prevent certain countries from becoming destinations for criminals.
These various factors highlight the need for cooperation, for recognition of legal decisions and for some harmonisation, without overlooking the fact that legal systems must reflect the situation in different societies.
Consequently, I feel that a vote in favour of this report is justified. &#160;&#160; The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mr&#160;Costa’s report on the quality of criminal justice and the harmonisation of criminal law in the Member States (A6-0036/2005).
The EU is, and must remain, a mosaic of minorities and cultures.
We therefore believe that it is of the greatest importance to strengthen the policy of international cooperation and solidarity with respect to cultural issues and to establish in international law that every city, state or group of states is entitled freely to determine its cultural policy.
The report’s explanatory statement notes, however, that how this project is to be funded is unclear, and reference is made to the forthcoming financial perspective for 2007-2013.
The idea of a European capital of culture is a good one.
It is so good, even, that it can be funded in a host of other ways, for example through local sponsorship.
We are therefore voting against this report in itself, but are not opposed to the actual idea of the action. &#160;&#160; .
The programme seeks to highlight the wide diversity of European culture, while at the same time there is the supreme contradiction of pursuing a European policy of economic, social, political and cultural uniformity.
This programme is just an entertaining expression of your desire to impose a cultural and social model on the European people that they have not chosen themselves.
As culture is a powerful channel for education, the European Union not only favours anything that can brainwash and demean mankind, but also anything that encourages people to forget the timeless religious values that are the foundations for our membership of European civilisation.
In the future, will your attitude mean that Istanbul will have to be chosen as the Capital of European Culture?
Without competition there is no market, without a market there is no capitalist model and without a capitalist model there is no economic success and development, as history clearly demonstrates.
In short, we are not happy with anything in the texts before us today.
Because we reject this vision, which will be worsened by the European Constitution, and because, although we agree that we need to put an end to some blatant abuses, we nevertheless defend the legitimacy of certain public services, we will vote against this report. &#160;&#160; The June List is well disposed towards the implementation of the internal market and supports both common rules concerning subsidies to services of general interest and demands for fair tendering, including where services of general interest are concerned.
Aid for public activity should, as a matter of principle, also be accounted for and be easily accessible.
The only exception to this rule is in the event of a Member State’s having chosen only to make the service available through a monopoly and of its not intending to permit private actors at all (for example, in the event of a Member State’s only permitting public health care).
The June List has therefore chosen to vote against the proposal that the details should be reported to the Commission. &#160;&#160; .
I should also like to highlight that there are other services of general economic interest of importance to the outermost regions, such as postal services and telecommunications.
Hence the importance to the outermost regions of these two Commission documents.
The idea of an authority withdrawing and admitting free competition is pernicious to such vital activities.
This report defends the neo-liberal vision, and even wants to set down an interpretation of the Altmark ruling about the possibility of the underhand assignation of concessions in public transport.
The Commission and Parliament have waited for this legal judgment for years, because there was an abundance of contradicting interpretations about authorities’ provision of services, about funding and competition.
There is now a legal judgment that leaves intact local authorities’ right to offer public transport.
This is why it was very important for the Purvis compromises to be included in the various articles mentioned during the vote. &#160;&#160; The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left rejects the report, as it does not stand up to the pressure emanating from the Commission to privatise services of general interest, but, if anything, intensifies that pressure in parts.
From the public’s point of view, the provision of public services will further deteriorate: the market functions according to neither social yardsticks nor need, but simply lucrative demand.
The report also strengthens the Commission proposal as regards hospitals and social housing.
The report totally fails to mention those employed in undertakings providing services of general interest and the general interests of social welfare, such as the protection of the weaker members of society.
For the big service providers, privatisation initiatives in the field of services of general interest mean profitable business.
Your recipes for dealing with these problems are always the same.
Neither Brussels nor Frankfurt could get it wrong.
We think, however, that the Europe of Brussels is getting it wrong.
Despite 20 years of standardisation, and Europe entering into global free trade, our problems are only getting worse.
In spite of everything, they were better than the original wordings and would thus, if accepted, improve the report as a whole. &#160;&#160; We have voted in favour of the report on public finances in EMU – 2004 and also in favour of Amendment 7 about distinguishing between loans for investments and current expenditure.
The decisions taken last year by the previous Commission on the financing of this programme were extremely vague, meaning that it is already a foregone conclusion that there will be a major dispute between farmers and those in favour of Natura 2000 within the Committee on Agriculture and among those in charge of the Regional Development Fund.
We have used the Habitat Directive for many years to encourage the Member States to designate appropriate sites in their territory, whilst assuring them that funding would be guaranteed.
If we were to stop this funding now, or even to take it out of the budgets for agriculture or regional development, it would be a pretty poor show on our part.
I should also like to point out that this priority is shared by many of my colleagues in the Commission, who have agreed to adjust the Regional, Agricultural and other Funds in order to include Natura 2000 in financing.
The Member States have a legal obligation and are committed to effective management of Natura 2000 areas.
Use of these Community resources is the responsibility of the Member States but, for our part, we are prepared to offer all possible help in order to facilitate access to them.
It examined all the possible permutations, including the creation of a separate fund, and concluded that the most efficient approach is to incorporate financing for Natura 2000 in existing Community funds.
The new Structural Fund regulations, which are currently being discussed in the Council, will be applied by the Member States and the regions on a decentralised basis.
For the time being also, we cannot know what sums it will be possible to make available each year for cofinancing of Natura 2000 areas during the period from 2007 to 2013.
This is because, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, it is incumbent upon each Member State to decide on the requirements of these areas when preparing their national programmes.
In all events, the Commission has the means to safeguard priority for Natura 2000 within these national programmes.
I shall come back to this point at the end of my intervention.
To start with, a few comments on the new regulations being debated.
As regards the regulation on the European Regional Development Fund, I must say that it contains a reference to cofinancing for Natura 2000 and for biodiversity, which are included in the objectives of convergence and competitiveness.
There are also cofinancing facilities under the Cohesion Fund and European Social Fund regulations, especially in order to strengthen management capacities in relation to Natura 2000.
Natura 2000 is also included – and this is important – in the second land management axis in the new rural development regulation, which will account for 25% of its total.
The Commission is proposing a total of EUR 22 billion for land management during the period from 2007 to 2013.
It is necessary – and here, Mr&#160;Florenz, I need the support of the European Parliament – for this sum to be secured and, if possible, increased.
The support of the European Parliament on this issue is therefore of prime importance.
The new regulations contain mechanisms which allow the Commission, as I said earlier, to provide guidance and to control to some degree the content of the programmes submitted by the Member States.
Immediately after the adoption of the proposed regulations for the Structural Funds, which will possibly happen towards the end of spring, the Commission will define its specific priorities for financing all the funds in detail in one set of strategic guidelines.
Care will be taken during these consultations to ensure that cofinancing for Natura 2000 is included as a priority.
Once the strategic guidelines have been issued, the Member States will need to prepare national strategic frameworks during the second half of 2005 or in early 2006, together with operational programmes, which they will submit to the Commission.
All the interested Commission services will be included in the consultations held on the content of these programmes.
It is therefore the main obligation of everyone interested in financing Natura 2000 to exert pressure so that the Member States not only propose ambitious objectives in their national and operational programmes, but also safeguard permanent and continuing action to prepare valid Natura 2000 programmes.
Nevertheless, I believe we are finding the situation very frustrating because the issue has been dealt with without taking account of the concepts which are essential to sustainability and, furthermore, we have made the old mistake of seeing Natura 2000 as a crystallised territory, with no life or activity.
We cannot introduce the concept of Natura 2000 without looking at the great families of biodiversity, because each of them requires a different financial instrument.
The goal of the Natura 2000 initiative can be defined by scientific criteria, but the basic motivation is simple: to save at least some parts of European natural sites for ourselves and for future generations.
The biggest challenge for our future is the decrease in natural resources such as clean air, pure water and a healthy environment.
In addition to these goals, Natura 2000 is also an effective tool to support European villages and the people living there.
Natura 2000 can help redefine the role of rural areas in Europe.
The future of our natural heritage needs and deserves at least the EUR&#160;6.1&#160;billion per year set aside for these brief projects.
There are many technical details we have to resolve, but we should be united on one thing: the level of funding for Natura 2000 cannot be even one cent lower than was proposed earlier by the Commission.
As far as I am concerned, agriculture is a specific component of rural development, and as far as I am concerned, so is the Natura 2000 programme.
Nature plays an essential role in the development of the countryside and cannot be see in isolation from other aspects of agriculture and of other employment initiatives in the countryside.
For years, Europe has promoted this by means of legislation.
As for the future, I have already said that I see all those programmes as forming part of rural development, and I think that we should therefore ensure that a special fund for Natura 2000 is set up within the framework of the rural development fund.
As the Commissioner already indicated, we are familiar with the system of cofinancing, which, in my view, can take on special forms.
In some countries, this cofinancing is clearly a problem – probably a bigger problem for poorer countries than for the richer ones.
Natura&#160;2000 will be in direct competition with all the other projects.
On the ground, we only wanted … Natura&#160;2000 is an important step in protecting and developing biodiversity in the nature reserves of the European Union.
The policy must be guaranteed by mainstreaming Natura 2000 and integrating it into the main EU funding programmes.
The Habitats Directive of 1992, which established Natura 2000, states the EU's intention to define a common framework for the conservation of wild plants and animals.
You could even call it batty! &#160;&#160; All people have their own dreams and aspirations and politicians have their ideals and visions, which they subsequently embody in various projects.
The Natura 2000 project is exceptional simply because it incorporates ideals and also people’s aspirations.
Apart from these rather grand ideas, the Natura 2000 project is also exceptional in that it could be a driving force in the development of rural areas.
Today, just as the Constitutional Treaty is being adopted and ratified in the different states, it is very important that, on this matter too, we are able to say what is the position of Parliament in the development of such projects and what is the position of the Commission, which has to facilitate such projects and which has to provide the resources for the project to achieve its goals.
The question of cofinancing has often posed problems for many Member States of the European Union, particularly the new ones, since, under the terms of decentralisation, the authorities in the different regions have taken direct responsibility for schools, hospitals and also the protection of this heritage.
It is therefore important and essential that you provide help in the implementation of this project, that you directly release financial resources to assist those regions which do not have the money for cofinancing.
I should like to ask you, however, to bear in mind that the natural environment has no borders ‘birds don’t need passports’. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to start by thanking Mr&#160;Florenz, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, for having initiated this debate on Natura 2000.
Yet Poland is concerned at the fact that whilst the concept of the Natura 2000 network in Europe has evolved, this has not been backed up by an appropriate guarantee of funding for the creation and maintenance of this network.
The country has therefore put its name to the declaration submitted by a majority of EU Member States in October and December, in which they express their disappointment at the European Commission’s proposal concerning the cofinancing of the Natura 2000 network.
No clear details are provided regarding the principles according to which funding can be obtained for protection measures for Natura 2000 sites between 2007 and 2013, and this will undoubtedly mean shortfalls in funding for the Natura 2000 network.
The majority of areas designated as Natura 2000 sites in Poland will not be covered by the funds indicated, for example, land that is part of national forests, or swamps, natural grasslands, dunes, moorlands and scrublands that are not used for agricultural purposes.
In the context of the European Commission’s letter of 6&#160;January&#160;2005 to Poland, which suggested that consideration be given to the possibility of extending the list of Natura 2000 sites in the country, a guarantee of separate funding for the establishment of the Natura 2000 network has taken on even greater significance for Poland and other countries.
Firstly, it is my opinion that the reason why this House is having to deal with the problem of Natura 2000 is that the Commission has not had the courage to propose a suitable financial instrument.
This is the first point I should like to make; in the Habitat Directive we committed ourselves to cofinancing and to the provision of funding, yet no corresponding provisions have been made in our various funds.
The intention is that regions in the Member States submit operational programmes, and the Commission then assesses and approves them.
The Member States, however, have reacted by doing next to nothing, and this is intolerable.
It is for this reason that we need a separate instrument to finance Natura 2000, and indeed this House has already agreed that a separate financial instrument is needed; one need only look at the individual committees’ opinions on the Financial Perspective.
The Committee on Agriculture has already said that the protection of biodiversity is not a primary or genuine rural development policy.
We shall support the Commission in this matter, and I must also say that the green movements, Bird Life etc are in favour of our having the funding of Natura&#160;2000 integrated.
It is also an issue of getting the whole of our rural districts policy in tune with the natural environment, so that agriculture is carried on, and development pursued, in these areas in ways that respect the vulnerable natural environment instead of, as now, in ways that include driving large road systems through vulnerable areas.
There are such large sums allocated to direct agricultural aid that it is time we began to look at this aid. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Florenz said that Natura 2000 is in grave danger because confusion reigns over the financing of the programme.
I believe that the problem is a great deal more serious; not only is there no guaranteed funding, there is also an increasing lack of knowledge and growing uncertainty on the ground over what it really means when a Natura&#160;2000 site is designated.
Firstly, Natura 2000 programmes must not be financed at the expense of farmers, and under no circumstances must farmers be the only ones to suffer; otherwise, as Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines clearly stated, property owners will be deprived almost entirely of what is due to them.
Secondly, it is intolerable that infrastructure and economic development in large parts of the EU should languish due to delays and a lack of clarity over the designation of sites.
In many rural areas, investment programmes that would be useful and compatible with the nature of these areas cannot be carried out because questions remain unanswered.
It is also intolerable that the Natura 2000 programme, the real aim of which is to improve the EU’s standing by sending out a clear signal that we wish to be an environmental union, and not just an economic union, should be perverted in such a way.
Finally, it is unacceptable that we are reaching a point where no&#160;one knows what they are doing any more, and that the reason for this is to be found, above all, in the bureaucratic procedures in Brussels and the Commission.
Brussels bids us designate sites everywhere – no&#160;one is entirely sure where the money will come from, but that can be dealt with later.
This programme is not about the environment; it is designed to make a public nuisance of itself. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Natura&#160;2000 is one of the major issues that often allow doubts to persist about European construction.
Our fellow citizens share our ambition of protecting biodiversity and see that we are producing texts, but when it comes to obtaining funds, Europe does not deliver the goods.
Our fellow citizens accept the idea of sustainable development, thinking that it is possible to reconcile protecting the earth with economic development and employment, but when they need the channels and resources to do this, Europe does not deliver the goods.
I would like to make three demands: first of all, we need a specific fund, because objectively there is a contradiction between expectations for funds to promote economic development, rural development, and sustaining the land in accordance with Natura 2000.
Thirdly, we need an instrument for innovation, so that practices on the ground are more in line with what we could provide for in the future.
Therefore in Life&#160;+ we need a specific instrument and we need to maintain two pillars: a general environmental pillar and a pillar for Life Nature, as we had before.
As you have understood, Commissioner, as they stand, we do not think that the Commission’s proposals will convince our fellow citizens on the ground.
We believe that protecting biodiversity is a step forward, which is compatible with the development of rural areas and the economic future of our country.
We therefore now need proof of this conviction, in the form of three billion euros at least from the Structural Funds. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank Mr&#160;Florenz for giving us the opportunity to discuss this important topic.
It is in all our interests that Natura 2000 should become a workable system.
But there is a need for guarantees.
In Hungary there is a saying that if someone burns their mouth once with hot water, then later they will blow on cold water too.
This is how we feel now the empty responses of the Commission and the stance of some Member States have burned us and are forcing us to be more careful.
Therefore, I, together with my fellow representatives, ask the Council and likewise the Commission to create a separate budget item serving the goals of Natura 2000, that is within the financial projections in preparation, in parallel with the significant upgrading of the LIFE+ programme and within the farm budget – to which I would immediately add that we can only imagine this together with real increases in the farm budget earmarked for this purpose – or on the other hand, with steps being taken to create a completely separate fund.
I see this as a very important debate, and as one that shows that pressure must be brought to bear by this House to ensure that a separate instrument is created to finance Natura&#160;2000.
One of the previous speakers said that Natura 2000 is seen in some quarters as a programme for annoying the public.
I believe that it is our task to support those who view it in this way, and, in common with many of my fellow Members, I am therefore in favour of there being a separate financial instrument in future.
Many of the NGOs working in this field have told us that the Commission’s estimate of an annual cost of EUR&#160;6.1&#160;billion can only be considered an absolute minimum.
We will therefore have the task of ensuring that not only a separate instrument, but also sufficient funding, is made available.
If an integrated approach is to be adopted, then what is needed is a dual strategy; integration into existing funds, but a separate financial instrument in future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, in Germany we have a rule that is no less clear for being unwritten, namely that he who places an order foots the bill, and indeed it is a well-known fact that very little happens in this EU of ours without money.
Yet the EU has still not provided a precise definition of what kind of measures must be taken, what kind of regulations must be adopted or what kind of arrangements must be made with regard to the sites that have been designated, and indeed this fact was pointed out a short time ago by Commissioner Dimas.
The annual cost of Natura 2000 has now been estimated by the Commission to be EUR&#160;6.1&#160;billion.
A separate financial instrument must be created that allows compensation to be granted in every instance where restrictions have been imposed as a result of Natura 2000 sites being designated.
It is intolerable that an increase in funding for SAC compensation should occur at the expense of agricultural and environmental measures or of other rural development programmes.
Sufficient funding must be provided by the European Union for any additional tasks and costly obligations it imposes.
This would then safeguard the substance of Natura 2000. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, this question by Mr Florenz is appropriate because the Natura 2000 Network is the most important initiative undertaken by the European Union in the field of protecting natural areas and the Member States have understood this.
Natura 2000, however, has a cost that has not so far been calculated precisely.
The EUR 6&#160;100 million calculated by the Commission could be very far from accurate, because this figure does not take sufficient account of the spending on compensation which could have been paid to landowners and farmers who, in reality, are deprived of the use of their land and the rights over it.
The Natura 2000 Network is a Community initiative, and the European Union must therefore take responsibility not just for the cost of managing the areas, but also for the loss of revenue for the farmers.
Commissioner Wallström’s proposal to fund part of this cost by means of the rural development policy indicates that the Commission is not taking the Natura 2000 Network seriously or that it undervalues rural development, or both.
The Member States must choose between these two objectives; one always at the expense of the other.
If the proposal being presented on the new European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, with a funding of EUR 11&#160;000 million per year, is accepted, we would have to deduct 20% of that sum in order to fund a substantial proportion of the cost of Natura 2000.
Furthermore, the reform of the CAP in September 2003 extended the list of actions to be funded from rural development, adding to it improving quality, food safety and the welfare of livestock.
The Natura 2000 Network is therefore very important and requires an instrument for funding, either exclusively or by improving the sum for rural development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the question asked by my colleague, Mr&#160;Florenz, is a legitimate one.
There is a political gulf between the priorities set for the Community and the lack of clarity regarding financing.
It is worthy of you, Commissioner Dimas, that you should express a wish, as you did at the start of this debate, to safeguard the financing of Natura 2000.
A key challenge for the European Union is to protect the diversity of nature in the area we all share.
From the point of view of nature conservation policy, the Natura 2000 network is unique, because it protects the environment of approximately 200 habitat types and 700 species, and will soon cover more than 17% of the EU’s territory.
The Natura 2000 network requires considerable input on the part of the Member States.
The areas must not see any significant reduction in the natural resources which qualify them for inclusion in the Natura network.
The authorities must likewise draft an appraisal of the environmental impact in all projects and plans that may have an effect on the natural worth of the areas concerned.
As this wide-ranging impact of the Natura 2000 network on all current and planned conservation area activity will demand a good deal in the way of resources and financial investment from the EU Member States, we really must ensure that sufficient, comprehensive funding is assigned at EU level to the administration of the Natura 2000 network by means of a separate financial instrument. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commission’s Communication on the financing of Natura&#160;2000 lists various possibilities for dealing with the needs that will arise during the 2007-2013 period.
Finally, it should be pointed out that the forecast costs of the programmes are very variable depending on the country and the Natura 2000 areas chosen.
Intelligent use of the Structural Funds, to which additional funds under Life could possibly be added, would, in my view, enable us to respond to them much better than with a specific financial instrument. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, historically many habitats which elsewhere in Europe have vanished have survived in the new Member States.
This is why priority was given at the national policy level to setting up the Natura2000 network.
The Commission has announced that it supports funding Natura 2000 from the Rural Development Funds and the Structural Funds.
It has not, however, planned to create a specific financial instrument designed for the network.
I believe that particularly in the new Member States, where there is intense competition at the local project level to obtain resources from Structural Funds and the rural support funds, the European Union nature protection network does not have much prospect of obtaining match funding: this state of affairs should not be permitted.
Second, we should welcome proposals to supplement the activities supported in the draft regulation with the following – allocating funding for the management of those habitats which will not find support within the framework of the Structural Funds and the Rural Development Funds, allocating funding for pilot projects in the field of environmental technologies, planning preparatory measures for future allocation of money from the Structural Funds.
For example, the Netherlands has taken the opportunity to ban hunting in many parts of the country, using Natura 2000 as a pretext.
I am firmly convinced that the officials in Mr&#160;Dimas’ DG have done splendid work in the past, yet no matter how much effort is expended, work of this kind cannot be carried out unless the groundwork has been laid.
Natura 2000 must not be implemented at the expense of landowners or agriculture, and compensation must be granted instead of depriving people of what is due to them.
Natura 2000 must not be implemented at the expense of the common agricultural policy or rural development.
Natura 2000 sites cover 15% of the old EU, and funding measures for the remaining 85% – not including cities and built-up areas – come under rural development and agriculture.
No further reductions should be made to this large area, and I therefore believe that separate and ample funding would be the best solution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Natura&#160;2000 is an extremely ambitious programme that has been in existence for a great many years.
The Commission is proposing that the programme be cofinanced, and I support this proposal.
At the same time, however, it is proposing that the money should come from the Rural Development and Structural Funds, and there are a number of reasons for thinking that the primary source of funding is intended to be rural development, as no separate fund exists for Natura 2000.
Another point I should like to stress is that as a result of the decisions taken by Brussels to cap the agriculture budget until 2013, and following CAP reform, which moved modulation funds from the first to the second pillar – or in other words to cofinancing for rural development – it is inevitable that landowners and farmers will receive compensation for their efforts from this pillar.
Something else that is quite clear is that there can be no question of the budget available being any less than that proposed by the previous Prodi Commission.
It is impossible to have more Europe for less money when there are 25 Member States, and I am entirely opposed to property being encroached upon without appropriate compensation being granted. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, today’s debate focuses on the question: ‘How does the European Commission, when applying its integrated approach, intend to ensure that the aims of Natura 2000 are met in practice?’ No satisfactory answer has so far been put forward, since neither the European Rural Development Fund nor the Structural Funds enable all the aims of Natura 2000 to be met, or cover all the necessary cofinancing requirements.
I believe the present proposal should be amended to include an opportunity to make available EU cofinancing for the protection and restoration of habitats of European importance that lie outside agricultural or forested areas.
This is why Natura 2000 should be added to the Life+ regulation as a separately funded activity; also, it would be expedient in the case of Life+ to direct most of the funding for projects through the Member States.
One current problem is that neither the Structural Funds nor the Rural Development Fund take this Member State contribution to the Natura 2000 network into account, but rather, give preference to projects in more densely populated areas.
The preservation of these areas is simpler and cheaper at the moment than the restoration of former natural areas in Central Europe.
It is not, therefore, logical that a fund to support nature protection activities uses population density, but not the current preservation status of natural resources, as a criterion for funding. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I support the concept of integrating care for the environment into other policies such as the structural funds, agricultural funds and so on.
Four countries – the Netherlands, France, Italy and Finland – have Court judgments against them for inadequate designation of special protection areas for birds.
Second, those who want EU funding for all the Natura 2000 sites have to guard against overbidding.
We also need funding via the annual bidding process for the special needs of certain Natura 2000 sites, possibly through the establishment of a biodiversity programme within the LIFE+ Programme.
You might say that what you are trying to do is effective, but my colleagues and I believe it is wrong. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, the inclusion of the Natura 2000 Network in the Regulation on rural development, as proposed by the Commission, is equivalent to throwing away this very ambitious nature protection initiative.
We all know that, following the current discussions on the financial perspectives, there may not be sufficient funds even to cover the lines that until now have been funded by means of the rural development fund, let alone the new actions planned following the reform of September 2003, on improving safety, food quality and livestock welfare.
Evidence of this is the designation of the areas for the Natura 2000 Network, which has been delayed by at least twelve years, since the adoption of the directive on habitats.
When the European Commission originally consulted civil society, all the actors — from the farmers to the ecological organisations — expressed their support for funding that initiative by means of a separate and single fund, since that would be the only way to oblige the European Union to make a funding effort.
Funding a substantial proportion of the cost of Natura 2000 by means of rural development is not just a fantasy, but its inclusion within the context of agri-environmental measures could jeopardise the efforts of European farmers to respect the ecological conditions imposed on them by the recently implemented reform of the CAP.
The Commission is fully aware of the importance of securing adequate Community cofinancing for Natura 2000, for which the lists have been approved for five of the six regions, with few gaps in the lists.
All the new Member States have submitted their lists.
Of particular significance is the extension of funding for forestry areas in the new rural development regulation.
In its negotiations with the Member States on the content of these programmes, the Commission will seek to ensure that the allocations for Natura 2000 match this declared Community priority.
The Member States have the flexibility to set their own priorities and decide the amounts provided for Natura 2000.
Designating a precise amount for Natura 2000 in LIFE+ also risks giving the impression that it would be a dedicated fund capable of covering all the needs of the network.
Our proposal is in line with the general principle of integration and simplification of all the other Commission proposals in the context of the Financial Perspectives.
There are now ongoing discussions in the Council and in Parliament on the Commission draft regulation for LIFE+.
In conclusion, the Commission proposals, without offering explicit guarantees, are still able to cover the financial needs for the Natura 2000 network.
The latter are an essential part of any action plan, and I hope that Mr Dimas agrees that the central focus of this Action Plan ought to have been the protection of children.
It is true that you inherited it from the previous Commission, but an action plan cannot consist merely of research, research and more research, with not a single genuine measure to reduce environmental pollution and impact on health, in particular children’s health.
An action plan should also not be something that uses a lack of scientific consensus to put off action indefinitely, as that would be to turn the precautionary principle completely on its head.
I believe that this not only insults the intelligence of Members of this House; it flies in the face of our expectations and indeed of the Commission’s previous proposals.
The recognition that health is interconnected with our physical and social environment must become a consistent aspect of mainstream policy and debate.
We also need to look at the success stories in Ireland and elsewhere in relation to the smoking ban in workplaces.
There has been an 18% drop in cigarette consumption in Ireland and many who opposed a complete ban on tobacco smoke in workplaces now accept it as normal.
I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Ries and her assertion that in order to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of the action plan, it is necessary to establish adequate funding now for the 2004-2007 period.
The fact that the warnings issued by many experts have been ignored for years is not only a result of ignorance and thoughtlessness, but also of the activities of wealthy and influential interest groups that profit from other people’s misfortune.
Risk analyses have already demonstrated that a clear risk exists, so research similar to the National Children’s Study is not what is needed in many Member States.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; .
The EU is in a very strong position to see exactly which Member States are exercising the best techniques to tackle diseases, such as acute respiratory infections, which is the main cause of death for children under the age of five.
The EU must learn from the best practice techniques available within the European Union to tackle health disorders, such as asthma, childhood allergies and neuro-development disorders.
The bottom line is this: if we are to improve the public health of the people of Europe, we must ensure that adequate budgets are put aside to deal with such problems.
That is why I fully support the recommendation in this report that at least EUR 300&#160;million be put aside under the 7th Research Framework Programme (2007-2012) to promote a higher standard of health within the European Union.
I can assure the Commission and the Council presidency that we will use these powers rigorously in the future. &#160;&#160; Madam President, our way of life is having an ever-greater impact on the environment.
One need only think of the Auto Oil I and II programmes which we used to improve the quality of petrol, in so doing combating the problem of acid rain, or the European legislation that has been used to achieve certain levels of air and water quality.
Public health should be regarded as our top priority in any case, but it is also true that poor public health is an excessive burden on our state budgets.
Although the Commission was right in its decision to prioritise the need to combat four environmentally-related diseases, the approach it has taken leaves much to be desired.
No consideration has been given to a large number of recently published studies, and there are no provisions relating to the application of legal instruments, in contrast to the SCALE initiative.
There is also a lack of measures aimed at informing the public about the causal connection between environmental pollution and health, and no provision has been made for a long-term evaluation that would make it possible to examine whether the measures are helping to reduce environmentally-related health problems in a cost-effective manner.
Priority should therefore be given to research into the production and use of everyday products that contain allergenic or carcinogenic chemicals. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the risk of dying of cancer is four times greater for women hairdressers than for women in general.
Diseases and ill-health affect different groups in society in different ways.
People on low incomes are affected more often by disease than people on high incomes, and there is a difference between ill health in men and ill health in women.
The committee has borne these factors in mind, and it has been very important to us Social Democrats to have them included.
We have had the report include both the fact that there needs to be more focus upon particularly vulnerable groups and the fact that data must be collected in such a way that more information can be obtained about the ways in which different groups in society are vulnerable and are affected by various forms of environmental pollution.
For example, we want to see statistics broken down according to gender so that we can discover and combat differences between men and women where health and disease are concerned.
We Social Democrats have therefore chosen to emphasise the need for increased efforts to combat disease caused, especially, by alcohol but also by tobacco, poor diet and lack of exercise. &#160;&#160; Madam President, many thanks are due to Mrs Ries for her hard work on this report.
This is common sense.
An environment and health action plan should have two main goals: firstly, to identify quickly the main environmental health risk factors and, secondly, to eliminate or minimise their effect on human health as soon as possible.
The action plan proposed by the Commission is, unfortunately, more planning and less action.
It is principally concerned with improving information and research relating to environmental pollutants and disease causation, and enhancing environment health communication procedures between Member States.
On one hand yes, because information, research and cooperation in environment-health interaction matters are always a good thing, , we do not necessarily need more time- and money-consuming, research-related mechanisms in order to act fast and save lives now.
In conclusion, I say 'yes' to research and information for combating long-term environment-related diseases we do not know much about, but I urge the Commission to say 'yes' to immediate drastic action to prevent the diseases we already are very familiar with today. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people are concerned about the impact of the environment on their health, and these are very specific concerns.
The number of children suffering from asthma and having to go through life with inhalers is on the up.
The influence of tobacco smoke on the health of non-smokers has become abundantly clear to us all.
Firstly, there is the significant gap between the ambitions in the general strategy and the action plan itself.
This leads to much scepticism, much concern, although fortunately there is satisfaction about Mrs Ries’ report and the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
I should like to focus on two more points that we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would like to introduce by way of two amendments; we would like to emphasise that no targets have been proposed for the proposed actions, and that, out of the 13 actions, only three pertain to specific measures to reduce the disease burden.
I urge you, Commissioner, to take Parliament’s remarks into consideration and would be grateful if you turned your action plan into a real action plan that does credit to its name. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was high time that account was taken of the direct impact which environmental factors may have on man.
Environmental pollution plays a huge part in the development of cancer, a disease which will attack one in three Europeans during their lifetime.
There are numerous valid scientific studies on substances which are harmful to the environment and human health, which makes us wonder what interests the Commission is protecting: the interests of the European citizen or of the big industries?
In this case, among other things, the supposed lack of information should not be put forward as an excuse for the lack of action.
I close with the hope that both the European Commission and the European Council will take serious account of the report by Mrs Ries, whom I congratulate on her work. &#160;&#160; Madam President, if we are ill, health is our most desired object.
The health of people, especially of children, is being put at risk in our countries in Europe and the health action plan in its present form is not equipped truly to protect us.
I would like to support her in this and, if anything, express the hope that we can soon add to the list more chemicals such as antimony, dioxins, and fluorosilic acid.
Another saying we have at home is 'at least no one died', but this is no longer true: people are dying. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a proverb in my part of the world to the effect that the healthy have one hundred wishes, whereas the sick have only one – to become healthy.
Yet without wishing to disparage the Commission’s efforts, this Action Plan is an investigation – and not only that, but an investigation for which the latest findings could unfortunately not be used – rather than an effective, detailed and far-reaching measure aimed at rectifying a situation that has been recognised as a problem.
When the European Parliament through the report of Frédérique Ries sets out specific measures for implementing the programme of the common environmental and health policy for the period 2004-2010, we may be aware that these are areas in which the European Union is becoming a world leader.
The European Union of 25 members is registering an increase in regional and social differences, something that is directly reflected in people’s quality of health.
Counter to expectations, 55 million people are living in poverty.
The most vulnerable groups are older people living alone, single mothers and the unemployed.
The profiles of these groups, which are at risk as a result of exclusion and therefore also in terms of health, clearly illustrate how societies have developed, how production methods have changed and how economies work.
Less development means less health.
Timely investments in health reduce the costs to the economy as a whole. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, this plan proposes to implement actions through existing initiatives and programmes to which resources have already been allocated under the operational budgets of the services concerned, in particular the Public Health Programme and the Sixth Framework Programme for Research.
We cannot protect people from themselves, nor should we legislate for all life's risks.
The Commission is talking about the health of the European public, not delivering public health services.
The contribution of the European Parliament is very important.
Through the close cooperation between Parliament and the Commission we will be able to provide the European Union with an effective and efficient way of addressing the possible consequences on human health of environmental concerns.
The gradual setting-up of an integrated environment and health information system, in which human bio-monitoring will play an essential role, is the added value of the Action Plan.
It is a long-term and ambitious plan, but this will not prevent us from taking action.
This relates in particular to the thematic strategies of REACH and CAFE.
The environment and health strategy contained a specific focus on children and during the stakeholder consultation process to prepare the Action Plan, experts highlighted that concern.
The precautionary principle is at the core of environment policy and it will continue to be the cornerstone of our action.
The Commission will not use this lack of information in the field of environment and health as an excuse for inaction.
Parliament's request for funding of EUR 300 million for 2007-2010 provides us with extremely useful political support.
However, the Member States must also play a role.
This amounts to a massive increase of our current environment and health funding.
We hope to provide as much support as possible at European Union level, but major commitment must also come from the Member States.
The Commission greatly values Parliament's cooperation and its constructive efforts in this area.
In order to make the most of this the Commission will regularly inform the relevant parliamentary committee on the progress made in implementing the Action Plan.
Finally, I would like to underline that by 2007 we will have made significant progress in establishing the information system and we hope to have the first results of the effectiveness of cost efficiency measures to address health problems.
At this point we will report back to Parliament in substantive terms on whether existing policies are working and what new policy initiatives will be required. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
There are currently more than 110&#160;different models of driving licences, some granting different rights, that are valid and in circulation in the Member States.
In an open area in which freedom of movement of citizens is the rule, the consequences of this situation are clear.
It is difficult to carry out checks on the licences, the public authorities have problems making sense of them, and citizens often have problems with their driving licences not being recognised.
The directive proposed by the Commission has three main objectives: protecting against fraud, freedom of movement and road safety.
This will also help to reduce the number of models in circulation.
This will help to increase protection against fraud.
The Commission also proposes introducing a period of validity for the licence that is limited in time.
This administrative period of validity, which will be ten years for car and motorcycle licences, will mean that each time it is renewed, the fraud protection elements can be updated and that a recent photo can appear on the document.
They are also particularly vulnerable, as all the statistics show, as they have a proportionally much higher involvement in accidents than other road users.
The Commission also proposes regulating access to driving the most powerful motorbikes on a progressive basis, doing the same for HGVs and the most powerful coaches, harmonising the frequency of medical examinations for professional drivers and introducing minimum requirements for initial qualification and continuous training for driving licence examiners.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, here is an ambitious proposal for improving road safety, ensuring freedom of movement and combating driving licence fraud.
Over the past few months, work on the directive on driving licences has been marked by a desire to achieve coherence and to engage in extensive dialogue.
The reason for this is that the varying opinions that have emerged on this issue have resulted from differences in outlook between the individual countries, rather than from party politics.
This is precisely why we chose to go a little further: instead of 111 driving licences plus a European model, the proposal tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism envisages a reduction to one single European driving licence within a reasonable time frame of about ten or twenty years.
The point is that, if we have a single driving licence and can therefore simplify and centralise data in the Member States, and if the latter are also willing to cooperate in exchanging these data, this will surely go some way towards curbing fraud and improving mobility in Europe.
The proposal would also benefit people who travel from one country to another as tourists and who would like their rights to be recognised wherever they go.
We have also opted to refrain from any age discrimination and have therefore left it up to the Member States to introduce medical or other purely preventive tests as they see fit.
What we have done is to launch an initial attempt to cover three- and four-wheeled vehicles too, but we are also aware that the inherent problems cannot be resolved overnight.
Finally, let me reiterate my thanks to all my fellow Members for their great goodwill and cooperation over the past few months. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wishes to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Grosch, on his excellent report on the Commission’s proposal for a third Directive on driving licences.
He has presented detailed proposals for improvements relating to the future introduction of a uniform European driving licence and, most importantly, has drawn up people-friendly provisions, such as those dealing with caravans and campers.
Road safety is not improved in any way by making people go to a public authority, have a new photograph taken and be issued with a new licence document.
At best, such an arrangement facilitates police checks, but it does nothing to improve road safety.
The second point we reject in the report relates to the compulsory limitation of the validity of licence documents.
We do not want the compulsory exchange of driving licences, and we do not want any limitation of their validity. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, firstly, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Grosch for his excellent cooperation and his very constructive method of working on the process of producing the committee’s proposal.
It is a matter, in this case, of shuttling between traditions and differences in the various Member States, but without losing sight of the objective, namely that of increasing people’s mobility in the EU and promoting road safety.
It will take 60 years before we have an acceptable situation if we have to comply with the proposal by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament supports the greater part of the committee’s proposal.
We do not think that endless doctors’ examinations of healthy drivers, as proposed by the Commission, are a good idea.
Where mopeds and motorcycles are concerned, we in the PSE Group wish to encourage training and tests in a situation where drivers begin with mopeds and then advance through the classes of driving licence.
We use each other’s roads more and more, which means that we must trust each other to a greater extent in the documents we issue to drivers, but the issuing of those documents is still considered a kind of strategic, almost military secret within every Member State, where the seals must therefore be closely guarded.
There is no evidence anywhere to suggest that the elderly are particularly unsafe drivers.
The same must apply to those in poor health.
I think that the principle we need to adhere to is not to draft European rules that are too detailed, to impose general principles as is the case in your report and take the decision as close to the citizen as possible.
The Committee of European Experts can continue and do their work by all means, but I think that the work should ideally be done as closely to the public as possible.
Our group has tabled a few amendments to bring driving licences for mopeds and motorcycles into line with the tradition in the Member States and not to be too restrictive in this.
In time, we will explain to the citizens that they have licences allowing them to drive a car or motorcycle, or such like, across the entire Union.
I think that the public will come to realise that the European Union also serves very concrete purposes.
It is really important that we get something done about this, and a prior condition – or one of the prior conditions – for getting something done is, of course, that we have driving licences that can be checked up on and that are recognised throughout Europe.
I think they should take a much more relaxed attitude to their old driving licences instead of cherishing them as if they were things that cannot be exchanged.
In that way, we should obtain a driving licence we can use in the rest of Europe.
This is why I am concerned to hear that many citizens in EU Member States will have to undergo the ordeal of exchanging their driving licence yet again.
In my opinion the inclusion of microchips and the frequent exchange of driving licences as proposed by Mr&#160;Grosch entails unnecessary expense.
Finally, I should like to point out that, in my view, official restrictions that determine whether foreigners may apply for and be issued with driving licences are incompatible with the principle of the free movement of persons.
Speaking personally, ten years of using my first plastic licence have already expired, and I replaced it last year with a new one displaying the European Union symbol.
If Latvia was able to do this then in my view other states can do it too.
And if we have a common internal market and free movement of the labour force, it is difficult to understand why we cannot adopt a unified system for obtaining driving licences, health requirements and similar matters, since any European Union driver may cause problematic traffic situations in any other European Union state.
It also seems to me that on the issue of microchips and their use, both the Commission and Parliament could have been stricter and could have retained an obligation to introduce them in the foreseeable future.
I should also like to mention particularly the amendments submitted jointly with some fellow Members concerning the introduction of the AM licence for mopeds.
However, penalising two-wheeled traffic, which this directive does in part, will, in my view, damage not only our economies but also the quality of life in general. &#160;&#160; – I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Grosch on his report and by saying that my main concern in this debate on the future adoption of a European driving licence is that a good idea should not be spoiled by excessive regulation leading to more obligations and obstacles for drivers in the EU.
Given that European citizens are enjoying increasing freedom of movement, it is necessary to harmonise basic rules intended to foster safety on the roads, to prevent fraud due to the improper use of false licences and to prevent drivers who have been penalised in one country from easily obtaining a new licence in another.
Presented in this way, this is a simple message, which will be easily understood by those it is intended for and will be heeded by the public without any difficulty.
The problem arises when a good idea, an obviously welcome political initiative, is undermined by the temptation to regulate.
What we must avoid, when it comes to beneficial measures such as this one, is an increase in regulatory and bureaucratic constraints and in financial costs for EU drivers, when such steps are always debatable.
Otherwise, the subsidiarity principle – and respect for practices that have been legitimately established by the authorities in the Member States – will not be duly taken into account.
I shall conclude by saying that the most significant of the four European freedoms is freedom of movement. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I am pleased that you are chairing this sitting, because I know that you are a very careful and safe driver and that you are greatly interested in the whole question of road safety.
It is a regrettable fact that skulduggery, cheating and forgery take place in the EU in connection with driving licences.
These activities are made easier by the 110 different licence models that are currently in use in the European Union, and let us be honest: we need look no further for an example than Germany, where many drivers still have the collector’s item we call the grey rag; some of these have even paid the occasional visit to a washing machine.
Let me say to Mr&#160;Jarzembowski that to call this compulsory exchange in German is a very emotive thing to do, for the term is associated with the dictatorial regime in the German Democratic Republic, which compelled visitors entering the country to exchange deutschmarks for East German currency.
As I said, the rapporteur has presented a very good proposal, and for that I thank him.
This situation cannot go on indefinitely here in Europe.
We want to put an end to it with this directive, which is why I hope that, in tomorrow’s vote, Mr&#160;Grosch will be given a large majority, including the backing of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have already welcomed the Commission’s initiative and Mr Grosch’s report aiming at harmonising the rules regarding driving licences, and I welcome them again.
We agree on the objectives of preventing licence fraud and above all of implementing a measure that will facilitate free movement for the citizens of the Union and contribute to improved road safety.
It is no longer acceptable to conceive of Europeans who have been granted their driving licences under different rules, having fulfilled very different requirements, driving on the same roads.
I am referring in particular to the roads in my country, Italy, throughout the summer.
That is why I think that we could also let category B licences be equivalent to category AM licences, so that car drivers could always ride motorcycles as well in major historic city centres. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also begin my speech by thanking Mr&#160;Grosch once again, in particular for the well-balanced nature of his proposals with regard to the prescribed amount of regulation, because this provided a platform from which we were able to reach a very broad consensus on many points.
There is, however, another point I should like to add.
We should bear in mind that basic and advanced training will have to be a central and important objective. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when people have acquired the right to drive a motor vehicle, they should, normally speaking, retain that right for as long as there are no physical or legal objections to them doing so.
I do not think that this House is in any doubt about that.
What we do question is the form in which the citizens are faced with this, more specifically, the standards for acquiring and retaining that right in the form of driving licences.
In addition, driving licences often function as a form of identification, which means that verification aspects are important.
In my view, driving ability can considerably contribute to reducing the number of road victims.
Mr Grosch’ report puts my mind at ease on that score, and for that I am grateful. &#160;&#160; Madam President, if the Germans have a problem with their driving licences, what is to stop the German Government from sorting it out?
It will be resumed this evening at 9.00 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is questions to the Commission (B6-0009/2005).
As regards the proposed directive on services, the Commission can confirm that all these services fall within its scope.
In order to deal with these kinds of potential barriers, Article 30 of the proposal stipulates that Member States shall ensure that providers are not made subject to requirements which oblige them to exercise a given activity exclusively, or in a manner which restricts the exercise of different activities either jointly or in partnership.
These requirements will be subject to mutual evaluation by the Member States and the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for the clear answer he has given to the question which I raised and to add that the restrictions imposed under Greek legislation on the basis of the basic shareholder will not only hit construction companies, as stated in my question; all economic service sectors, wherever they move and are proposed, will be affected by the Services Directive on the part of the Commission, such as food, advertising companies, the tourist industry, architectural firms, private individuals and companies.
The Commission is presently looking into the matter to ensure that the freedom to provide services as provided for under Article 49 of the Treaty is respected and any unjustified obstacles are removed.
In light of the information provided, the Commission will assess the situation in each Member State and decide upon the appropriate steps. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;(&#160;Many thanks, Mr&#160;President, thank you, Commissioner.
I should like to inform the Commissioner that according to the reports to which Poland has access, which include government reports, three EU Member States still have in place legislation that makes no allowance for enlargement of the EU that took place on 1&#160;May&#160;2004.
At the same time, seven other Member States employ practices that do not comply with principles such as the free movement of persons and services and the freedom of establishment on the common EU market for companies from the new Member States, including Poland.
EU citizens and businesses must have confidence in the EU's legal framework if they are to maintain a positive view of the Community.
Accordingly, the Commission places the highest priority on maintaining the integrity of the internal market and carefully investigates all complaints in exactly the same way, irrespective of where they come from or which Member State they concern.
The Commission is aware of the fact that some Member States have adopted national measures that do not conform with the transitional provisions relating to the free movement of workers under the Accession Treaty.
The Commission is looking into these matters and will contact the Member States concerned in accordance with its role as guardian of the Treaties. &#160;&#160; In the light of the question from our Polish colleague, I would like to ask Commissioner McCreevy whether he would agree with me that this is exactly the sort of problem that will be fully addressed by the proposal for a directive on the internal market for services.
In the case of Ukraine, the form means that the preforms have been made from material originating in Ukraine or at least elsewhere in Europe.
However, OLAF has good working relations with the Ukrainian customs authorities.
It does therefore seem important to me that the Commission should ask OLAF to launch an inquiry.
I can, moreover, inform the Commissioner that the European manufacturers, in line with procedures, have submitted a request to review anti-dumping legislation.
My question is therefore very specific, Commissioner.
The Paris-Strasbourg-Munich-Budapest trans-European rail link is one of the thirty priority projects of the trans-European network decided upon by the European Parliament and the Council on 29&#160;April&#160;2004.
Some of the common interest projects on this line are at an advanced stage of preparation or implementation, in particular the Eastern high-speed train between Vaires and Baudrecourt, and the improvement of the Danube rail link between Salzburg and Vienna.
Mr President, in order to better coordinate the efforts of the different national and regional, public and private partners involved in this project, the Commission intends to appoint a European coordinator.
I fervently hope that the financial perspectives as proposed by the Commission will be approved by our Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me begin by saying that I am glad the Commissioner has answered the question so explicitly and intends to have a coordinator appointed.
In my opinion, we must press for the speedy implementation of this project.
When the guidelines were reviewed in April 2004, the sections of the Eastern part of the main line between Stuttgart, Munich, Salzburg, Vienna, Bratislava and Budapest were added, which were the Baudrecourt, Strasbourg and Stuttgart sections and the Kehl bridge over the Rhine, priority project no 17.
The work between Baudrecourt and Strasbourg should start around 2010.
The Kehl bridge, which, as you pointed out, is planned between Strasbourg and Appenweier, is a major bottleneck, so the planning priorities for Germany and France were previously different.
I hope that this major priority can be achieved in order to link the two Member States of France and Germany, and therefore many other Member States.
In answer to Mr John Purvis, I would first like to say that we do of course pay a great deal of attention to these problems of road accidents and that all of these problems, as we saw earlier when looking at the report on driving licences, are very important.
Having said that, neither the Commission, nor the Member State that is most affected, the United Kingdom, have statistics to directly prove a risk associated with driving on the left or the right.
What I would like to say to Mr Purvis is that we have no intention of harmonising the side of the road on which we drive in the European Union, given the exorbitant cost and the major foreseeable increase in the number of accidents during the transitional phase.
Anything that provides additional information on the causes of accidents in Europe will in any case be welcomed by the Commission, which has set itself the task of proposing any measures that will help to halve the number of people killed on the road. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, allow me to come back to the Commissioner’s answer to the last question from Mr&#160;Purvis.
At the moment we are in the process of collecting all the data, so that in the second phase we can step up our measures in order to achieve this ambitious but essential objective of halving the number of deaths on the Union’s roads.
But the debate has scarcely begun on this proposal for a directive on port services.
The hearing planned in June in the Committee on Transport and Tourism will be the perfect opportunity to look in more detail at the fundamental elements, including the social aspects, and to hear the opinions of all the parties involved.
Consequently, the Commission does not think that its proposal, and in particular the clauses on self-handling, will have negative consequences for the employment and income of people already employed in the port sector.
Moreover, the Commission considers that the application of the principles and rules listed in its proposal for a directive will result in a transfer of the volume of additional traffic towards maritime transport, which will inevitably create excess business and will result in jobs being created in European ports.
I hope that at the hearing in June, your examination of the proposal will be fruitful and that we will arrive at a balanced text that will enable us to revitalise the sector while, of course, preserving the working conditions which are personally very important to me. &#160;&#160; – Allow me to insist, Commissioner.
Apart from the reactions of the trades union, in December 2004, when the Commission presented its proposal to the Council, several Member States voiced negative criticism.
In April&#160;2004, the European Parliament and the Council decided on priority projects for Trans-European networks.
On 11 June 2004, the western Balkan countries and the Commission signed a protocol of agreement to promote the region’s strategic networks as previously identified in a Commission report in 2001.
The Commission is therefore also actively involved in what the countries concerned are doing to develop the pan-European transport corridors, four of them in particular.
Corridors 4, 8, 9 and 10 involve Greece and its links with the countries of Southwest Europe.
Recently, on my suggestion, Mr Papastamkos, the Commission set up a high-level group chaired by the former Commission Vice-President, Mrs Loyola de Palacio, which will by the end of 2005 identify the priority routes or projects connecting the enlarged European Union with its neighbours to the east and south.
Greece’s links with its western Balkan neighbours are also being examined in this context.
In the last few years, the Commission has allocated large amounts of money to road and rail projects relating to Greece’s main links with its northern neighbours from the Trans-European networks budget, the structural financial instruments or the Phare and Cards programmes.
The Commission also intends increasing its efforts in the 2007-2013 financial perspectives with all the details I gave just now and do not want to repeat.
It is up to the countries concerned to take the initiative of preparing and proposing projects that could be supported financially by Community funds and European Investment Bank loans. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his detailed reply.
My interest arises from the fact that the economic area in the region continues to be fragmented and isolated and its regional and European integration continues to be hampered.
Opening the railways up to competition is very important in order to attain the Lisbon objectives and to guarantee competitiveness in Europe.
So far as the opening up of the rail freight market is concerned, the Member States ought to have transposed the ‘infrastructure package’ directives, in particular Directive 2001/12, by 15 March 2003.
The Commission brought infringement proceedings for non-communication of transposition measures, or at least some of them, against Germany, the United Kingdom, Greece and Luxembourg.
Infringement proceedings for incomplete or incorrect transposition have been brought against the Netherlands, Belgium and Spain.
The Commission will continue to ensure that the Member States fully comply with their obligations to transpose Community law.
It will do that in particular for the directive to which you refer, which must be transposed by 31 December 2005.
The Commission is following the actual implementation of the new regulatory framework for railway infrastructure access very closely through a working group made up of the Member States and market participants’ representatives, who are invited to exchange their analyses and experience of the development of the competitive market with the Commission.
There are also other bodies whose task is to observe and evaluate non-discriminatory access to the market, such as the regulatory and consultative committee set up by Directive 2001/12 on the development of the Community’s railways, which I have already mentioned, and a large number of working groups, such as the railway regulators’ working group or those of the authorities that issue railway licences and safety certificates.
May I say to you, Mr Guardans Cambó, that I for my part believe this is a very important question because it is essential that we have a strong rail transport industry if we are to avoid Europe always having to use road transport; that would be harmful both to the environment and, by creating bottlenecks, to the European mobility we need if Europe is to be competitive; it would also be detrimental to the comfort of its citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you have said, a lot of hopes have been placed in this liberalisation of rail transport.
As you know, however, as happened in their day for goods, it is the case that safety certificates in particular –&#160;to give you an example involving a country you perhaps know better than others&#160;– prevent genuine liberalisation.
You mention safety certificates in particular.
You also refer to a number of Member States which I know well.
The experience from these countries illustrates the great safety benefits these provisions deliver.
I understand the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council wishes to oversee progress on a directive on daytime running lights and has therefore requested the Commission to adopt a proposal that has been in preparation.
The Commission confirms that it is looking into the feasibility of an initiative to introduce daytime use of dipped headlights on all motor vehicles.
As you point out, this measure appears in several national highway codes and has in any case been recommended in other Member States.
If the examination proves positive, the Commission intends submitting its proposal after the publication of the mid-term review of the European road safety programme I mentioned just now and which is expected in the second half of this year.
We must make use of every option for promoting road safety: all the various existing options and those which are becoming available in the different Member States.
I believe the technical documents will be available in the next few months and then of course the Commission will have to shoulder its responsibilities and make proposals.
If the Commissioner is interested in the issue of safety there are many areas in which the Commission could involve itself – for example, I note that in France, taxi drivers do not have to wear seatbelts but once they cross into Germany, they do.
France introduced them as a recommendation during the winter of 2004/2005.
Then we will see how to introduce the use of dipped headlights during the day on all motor vehicles.
As you pointed out following Mrs Hedkvist’s question, a recent study has shown that using dipped headlights during the day will help to reduce the number of road accidents appreciably: by between 5 and 15%.
There was also a problem with motorcycle drivers, but I think all these problems are being resolved.
So far as road safety is concerned, Mr President, and we have already spoken about it at some length, the 2001 White Paper proposed cutting the number of casualties by half by the year 2010.
In the countries of the present Union, the Union of 25 Member States, 50 000 people were killed in 2001; there must be no more than 25&#160;000 in 2010.
The European Parliament and the Council have adopted this ambitious target.
In 2003, the Commission adopted an action plan concerning the vehicle, user behaviour and the road infrastructure: three aspects.
I would nevertheless like to add, for Parliament’s information, that motorists’ behaviour will also have to be taken into account, and we shall have to see what we can do to bring some harmonisation to the rules in force throughout the Union in this field as well. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Commissioner.
I would, however, ask you to be more explicit about the interpretation of Article 16 of the EC Treaty, from which it seems to me that one can infer that users have a right to mobility and hence to having minimum safety standards drawn up in the field of services.
In any case, so far as Trans-European networks are concerned, we are very definite that we want this improvement.
Thank you Mr Howitt, because this gives me the opportunity to reiterate how important the Commission believes it is for persons with reduced mobility to be able to count on being treated fairly by being guaranteed appropriate assistance so that they can travel throughout the European Union with confidence.
Only three months after taking office as Commission Vice-President responsible for transport, I submitted to the College a regulation which gives real and tangible rights to persons with reduced mobility travelling by plane.
The regulation would apply to cases of departure, arrival or transit in airports located in Member States.
Having said that, Mr Howitt, you have clearly understood, so far as rail transport is concerned, that the third railway package contains a legislative proposal introducing minimum rules for assistance to persons with reduced mobility.
I believe this is very important and that the measure concerning persons with reduced mobility will be added to those that came into force on 17 February 2005, that is last Thursday, on denied boarding, cancellation and major delays to a flight.
All this has shown Europe’s citizens that the Union, its Parliament, its Council and its Commission are also there to make everyone’s daily life easier and to make things safer for everyone.
This was the reason for the critical observations made both by the Court of Auditors in its special report on Less-Favoured Areas, and by the European Parliament.
In its proposal for the next programming period, the Commission will introduce a distinction between mountain areas and other Less-Favoured Areas with regard to the maximum compensation payable.
Since mountain areas are affected by the most severe handicaps, the Commission proposes setting the maximum amount to EUR&#160;250 per hectare, while the maximum amount for other categories is set at EUR&#160;150 per hectare. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for your very direct and clear answer.
In my country, Ireland, where we have just introduced full decoupling from 1 January 2005, Irish farmers feel that they face a very uncertain future as regards their income.
However, you will have every opportunity to make your statements during the discussion here in Parliament on the new legislation for the rural development policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much welcome the Commissioner’s honest answer to Mrs McGuiness’ question.
However, since that definition is not sufficiently comprehensive, calls have been made for many years now for mountain areas to be redefined.
Evaluations of rural development programmes show the relevance of support for the less-favoured areas to maintain mountain-farming populations and for the land management in mountain areas, including landscape and environmental protection.
In its proposal for a Council regulation on support for rural development for the next programming period, the Commission introduces a distinction between mountain areas and other less-favoured areas as regards the maximum amount of compensation.
Since mountain areas are affected by the most severe handicaps, it is proposed to increase the maximum amount for those areas from EUR 200 to EUR 250 per hectare. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your clear answer and for letting us know that the Commission is introducing this distinction for the next programming period.
The authorities of the Member States allocate these quotas to their sugar-producing undertakings.
It is for each undertaking to decide and organise its production between one or more processing plants according to its own criteria.
Irish farmers will therefore be able to continue producing the same quantities of sugar beet as before the closure.
Concentration and rationalisation of production is a common feature of industrial restructuring and, for sugar, reflects the trend over the last ten years, where the number of factories almost halved within the EU of 15.
The quota transfer across Member States was presented by the Commission's communication on the sugar reform in July 2004 to increase the competitiveness of the European sugar sector.
Discussions in the Council and Parliament show very strong concern on the part of a number of Member States and stakeholders with regard to the possibility of trans-national quota transfer.
In this connection, the Commission needs to underline that the competitiveness of the European sugar industry has to be increased in order to ensure a sustainable, long-term basis for sugar production within the European Union.
Transferring quotas between Member States is one way of ensuring this.
Secondly, in formulating these proposals, have you also looked at the use of alternative industry or energy, particularly with respect to the use of sugar beet in biofuels/bioenergy?
The reason why we are now talking about sugar is that we have been making progress and undertaking reforms in many different sectors of agriculture, but sugar has been untouched for the last 40 years.
We must do so also because we are now granting access to the EU market to the 49 poorest countries in the world through the 'Everything But Arms' Agreement.
From 2006 to 2009, these countries will have progressive access to the European market at a price higher than the world market price.
This is also an element of our proposal on sugar. &#160;&#160; In general, the suffering of poor people in the Third World is not always eradicated by free trade – sometimes quite the opposite.
For example, Brazil has huge concerns about the proposals because the poor and landless there will suffer if sugar production expands massively, as is predicted.
This supplementary question is not on the same topic. &#160;&#160; Just to refer to the Commissioner's response to Mr Aylward's original question with regard to the transferability of sugar quotas.
The reason we are discussing this now is because the issue is part of a Commission proposal, and not because it is something that Member States were looking for.
However, I am happy to say that all members of the Council, and the Members of the European Parliament, realise that something has to happen with regard to sugar.
Forest is crucially important in the EU's strategy for biological diversity, Natura 2000 and in the EU's work to promote renewable energy and reduce the greenhouse effect.
Given the forestry industry's great economic, social and environmental importance, what measures will the Commission take in support of that industry in those areas of Sweden affected by the storm? &#160;&#160; First of all, I want to state that I completely agree with the honourable Member that forestry is of crucial socio-economic and environmental importance in the EU, especially in rural districts.
The Commission has just completed an analysis of the measures taken as part of the European forestry strategy over the last five years, and we shall shortly present the results of this analysis, both to the European Parliament and to the Council.
The investigation has been carried out in close cooperation with the relevant interested parties and the Member States, and statements have been collected, for example via an Internet-based forum.
In my view, the Council Resolution of 15&#160;December on a forestry strategy for the European Union forms a suitable basis for the forestry-related measures and initiatives in the EU.
On 1&#160;February, the Swedish authorities also asked for aid from other Member States in the form of electricity generators for use in the hardest hit parts of the country.
It was, in actual fact, possible to comply with the wish within a time frame of less than two days, and both Germany and the Czech Republic in actual fact sent 170 generators to Sweden.
Aid from the structural funds can be provided within the framework of the current programmes and, if the production potential both of agriculture and of forestry has been damaged, aid can also be provided for re-establishing and introducing preventive measures within the framework of what is possible in terms of rural district policy.
If the Swedish authorities wish to request aid from the Solidarity Fund, I would recommend them to approach my colleague, Commissioner Hübner, who deals with this specific area. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your detailed answer.
I would say a big thank you for taking the action you have described. &#160;&#160; I look forward to receiving the report the Commissioner talked about on the development of our forestries.
It must be said that it is ultimately up to the Member States to decide whether they want to use the different tools and the cofinancing in the rural development policy. &#160;&#160; As the time allocated to Commission Question Time is at an end, Questions 59 to 103 will be answered in writing(5). &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the debate on driving licences. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the proposals on driving licences because they represent a huge advance in combating fraud, improving road safety and, most importantly, providing legal certainty for the free movement of people.
However, we still need to look further into the question of motorcycles, where national practices and problems vary so much in the Member States.
That is why, in conjunction with some of my colleagues in the PSE Group, I have brought forward amendments which will allow for a two-track approach that will respect the principles of progressive access.
The other track will have no requirement for practical tests for mopeds, but then three stages of progressive access to the most powerful motorcycles.
In both cases, with regard to decisions on direct access to larger machines, it should be at the discretion of Member States to adopt a minimum age anywhere between 21 and 27.
I would hope that we can resolve this problem of motorcycles during the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Grosch, on the report he has produced.
The driving licence directive is very complex and intricate.
Overall, I think that it is a great step forwards in terms of freedom of movement, of reducing the possibility of fraud and of attempting to improve road safety.
In our country, especially in the major cities, scooters and mopeds are extremely popular forms of transport and are valid alternatives to cars.
I call on all my fellow Members to think carefully about these two points, so as to raise safety standards and achieve the goal of harmonisation by introducing sensible, feasible and manageable rules. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I should like to deal with two points in this report that strike me as especially noteworthy.
The second point I wish to address is the question of the ten-year time limit.
I was initially sceptical on this point, but I realise that, if we are to create a uniform rule, it has to be accepted that there are countries in which the driving licence serves not only as a certificate of authorisation but also as an identity document.
The benefits this brings would make up for the disadvantages the time limit imposes on some countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his important work, because this afternoon and evening have made it once again apparent that it was not easy.
First of all, we must be really serious about combating European fraud, and thus pave the way for it, but that is impossible with 110 different driving licences in Europe.
I do think it vital therefore that driving licences be renewed every ten years and that we move towards one fraud-proof driving licence in credit-card format in another ten years’ time.
We cannot leave this to subsidiarity.
This Parliament would not take itself seriously if we took a decision and subsequently needed 80 years to introduce it.
Secondly, the Commission proposal was too restrictive for owners of caravans, boat trailers and horse trailers which, in accordance with the proposal, must obtain an additional category E driving licence to add to their regular category B driving licence.
Thirdly, with regard to driving licences for heavy goods vehicles, if we were to follow the outcome of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, gradual access to heavy goods vehicles would even apply up to the age of 24 years.
I should like to urge this House to support this amendment, which is a very important revision.
The 10 years are vital to establish a uniform driving licence in Europe and combat real fraud.
I am referring to the principle of progressive access and the fundamental role of training; the need not to discriminate between car drivers and motorcyclists in the issuing of licences; the awareness that speed and the power/weight ratio must be regarded as one of the main causes of accidents; and the fact that the situation across Europe is highly diversified.
Within this framework, other colleagues in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and I are tabling some amendments.
On the one hand, they are designed to limit the speed of motorcycles that can be driven at the age of 18 and to recognise the differences among the various countries in the types of vehicles on their roads.
On the other, they reaffirm the principle of progressive access, rewarding driving experience and practical testing when people step up from mopeds to faster motorcycles and considering that, when they move up from one category to another, people have already acquired the skills of driving in urban traffic and behaving correctly towards other road users.
With better harmonisation of these aspects, I believe that the motorcycle issue, which has been raised by many speakers, can be reconciled into a single scheme within the framework of this proposal, on which I congratulate the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on driving licences brings more Europe into the everyday lives of our citizens.
Legislation is becoming more accessible, more transparent and more efficient in sectors which are basic to our freedom of movement within a single European market.
Our rapporteur, Mr Mathieu Grosch, has come down a long road and has made a huge effort to reconcile various sore points and different practices and has, in his way, contributed to the improvement of this proposal and we thank him for that.
Issuing licences in the form of a plastic card, replacing old licences within 10 years and the facility, albeit optional, to introduce a microchip facilitate controls and reduce the risk of fraud.
The mutual recognition of sanctions will help this, thereby promoting an area of security and justice in the European Union.
The right criteria for selecting examiners, their continuing training, periodic medical examinations of drivers, extending the principle of gradual access to driving licences for more powerful types of vehicles are elements which govern the protection of our life, the quality of our life and, finally, our democracy.
They are at the heart of the European social model and we should protect them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I strongly support the rapporteur's approach to this issue.
This must result in a large number of young people around Europe driving without proper licensing and, therefore, presumably without proper insurance.
In Germany there have been driving licences for more than a hundred years; no other country in the EU can lay claim to such a long history of driver licensing.
It makes no sense for European legislators in general or the European Parliament in particular to go beyond what the Member States have hitherto agreed.
I fully support the third directive on driving licences that is before us and I thank Mr Grosch for the work he has done on it.
We are trying to ensure greater freedom of movement for our citizens, to combat fraud and above all to promote road safety.
I think there is a subliminal fear of renewing all paper driving licences, as they come up for renewal.
I also strongly support the right to pull a trailer or a caravan under 3½ tonnes with a car licence. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, much as I regret it, I must start by replying to the comments made earlier by Mr&#160;Piecyk, who said that anyone who fails the German theory and attitude test known appropriately as the can resort to various tricks to obtain a driving licence in another country such as the Czech Republic.
High standards are required not only of drivers, but also of welders, doctors and nurses, who are so highly sought after in the old EU Member States.
The first of these is the drive towards standardisation, or harmonisation, and the second is the desire to ensure respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
There is no question that driving licences need to be standardised, as we cannot expect any policeman anywhere in Europe to be familiar with all their various permutations.
I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Grosch on having resisted this temptation.
Until such a network exists it will be impossible to reduce forgeries, and hence to increase road safety.
Given that nowadays one can easily purchase items on the Internet, reserve tickets for flights or carry out complicated banking operations, why should the Commission regard the setting up of such a system as a near-Herculean task?
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common European driving licence is long overdue, not as some sort of supplementary version but as the one and only valid one.
While it may be fascinating to flick through the catalogue with the 110 models currently in circulation and study the various periods of validity and security features, it is not practical to operate with such a catalogue.
Updating driving licences brings more security without additional red tape and will be effected in full compliance with the subsidiarity principle.
Exercising their sovereignty, the Member States should find a host of ways to administer the exchange, for example when vehicles are licensed or undergo their regular roadworthiness test.
In the context of the fight against terrorism, I believe that a verifiable driving licence is an entirely legitimate requirement.
If the Committee’s assumptions turn out to be justified, we shall achieve this goal in the year 2030.
It is a very sensitive subject for Europe’s citizens and you have therefore succeeded in finding the right balance.
I have of course heard some of you warning the Union against excessive regulation, but I have to say nevertheless that this new driving licence, a few of which I have already seen here and there in some Member States, will in my opinion bring greater safety for everyone, simplicity for its users and a subsidiarity that leaves a number of decisions to the Member States.
The driving licence, Mr President, is now the most widespread qualification in the European Union: almost 300 million holders often depend on it for their mobility, for their everyday lives.
On the other hand, of course, the diversity of responses shows that there are as many experts as there are holders of driving licences and that each expert has his or her own opinion on the subject.
Your report, Mr Grosch, proposes replacing all existing licences within a period of 10 years for paper models and 20 years for other models.
It is true that the Commission did not originally propose replacing all the licences already in circulation.
However, recent revelations of document fraud and the fraudulent obtaining of driving licences&#160;– which a number of you have mentioned, referring to ‘driving licence tourism’ –&#160;have led to a change of attitude on the subject in the Member States.
The Commission has proposed an administrative validity of 10 years for future driving licences.
It is nevertheless true that the Commission did not propose linking this regular renewal with a medical examination because we still have to leave the Member States some responsibility in this field in the name of subsidiarity.
As I said, the Commission has not proposed regular medical examinations, and limited validity is not automatically linked to such checks, which remain the responsibility of the Member States.
Motorcycle drivers are 16 times more likely to be involved in accidents than motorists.
I have been Minister for Health in a Member State and I can tell you that the number of deaths, and also the number of accidents that leave young people quadriplegic will affect me for the rest of my life.
I therefore believe we must be extremely careful.
That is why, Mr President, I now want to express my warmest thanks to the honourable Members who, with their rapporteur, have done a quite remarkable piece of work.
I am sure that our fellow European citizens will be very sensitive to the progress we have made, even if, of course, we still have some way to go.
I am aware that the problem of the cost of the driving licence and of the need to train examiners has also been mentioned.
That is another matter for action and investigation in the Member States, because the younger generation in particular must not be faced with difficulties in obtaining a driving licence, since for many young people it is a way of obtaining employment.
I am obliged to reject a few of them, but I nevertheless thank those who tabled them for their contribution to this debate, a contribution which must not be underestimated when we see its importance for the everyday lives of Europe’s citizens.(1) &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It required a great deal of intensive consultation, and the agreement we have reached with the Council guarantees a firm but fair European approach to illegal oil discharges and oil disasters.
The immediate motivation for the present legislative proposal was the oil disaster involving the .
Hundreds of kilometres of coastline were seriously polluted and the present package of measures really does not only pertain to those accidents but also aims to combat illegal discharges in European coastal waters.
Those illegal discharges may not make newspaper headlines, but they do constitute a seriously underestimated and underexposed problem, for every year, some 90&#160;000 cases of illegal discharge take place in European waters.
The Council has accommodated Parliament to a large extent, which benefits the European citizens and the environment.
Firstly, there are tough sanctions to combat illegal discharges.
The Council accepted a framework decision in December in which the penalties are incorporated in the third pillar.
In this way, and in advance of the new Constitution, Parliament has strengthened its institutional position.
Parliament values the protection offered by international conventions in the event of illegal discharges, but this is more complicated in the case of accidents.
The Commission and Council do not want any additional Marpol protection within the territorial waters, believing that this would then make it virtually impossible to act, a view endorsed by a majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
My thanks go to my fellow Members for the trust they have placed in me and for the good cooperation, as well as to the secretariat of the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
I would simply like to add a few words.
Negotiations on this proposal for a directive began nearly two years ago.
With this future directive, the European institutions will at last be responding in a concrete fashion to the expectations of our citizens, who want to see an end to the degassings and other disasters of the past.
As I pointed out to him at the IMO headquarters in London, the text that Parliament has before it is perfectly consistent with international law, that is the Marpol Convention on the prevention of pollution and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Obviously, we are acting at European Union level and not at the level of each Member State, but I do not honestly believe that the IMO can read into this measure the least desire to criminalise masters and crews.
From that point of view, the text before Parliament is less ambitious, since the elements of a criminal nature have been transferred to the third pillar, that is a framework decision.
Mr President, without taking up too much time, I would like to say something about Amendments 19 to 23.
The Commission recommends that Parliament reject them for two reasons.
Firstly because they call the compromise package into question, while conciliation could complicate things, and also for reasons of substance.
Amendments 19 and 22 seek to draw up an exhaustive list of all operators who, in the long chain of maritime transport, might be held responsible in the event of an accident and of pollution.
This is a very important question and the Commission is looking at it very closely; I must refer here to a study on the subject that I shall be sending to the European Parliament in the next few days.
Amendments 21 and 23 seek to call into question something the Commission considers a real step forward.
The European Union is going to set up a really operational system of deterrence and sanctions in its territorial waters: all polluters will have to be sanctioned if they are guilty of serious negligence.
That Convention allows coastal states to strengthen their pollution prevention and control regimes in their territorial waters.
That is why the Commission does not agree on the substance and why it is glad that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has been wise enough not to accept Amendments 21 and 23.
In conclusion, Mr President, if you will forgive me for taking so long, the Commission supports the package of 13 compromise amendments and looks forward with confidence to the position Parliament will take on this package.
Please be vigilant: it is essential that the Council abides by its commitments and adopts the directive and the framework decision quickly and concomitantly.
All this is necessary if the compromise is to be meaningful and if European public opinion is in future to feel much better protected against all the marine pollution, to the extremely disastrous effects of which on our natural heritage and all the wealth of the sea Mrs Wortmann-Kool has drawn our attention.
On the contrary, we are trying within reasonable and proportionate limits to make them more responsible.
Unfortunately, however, the common position and its amendment by the Committee on Transport and Tourism do not respond to these challenges, despite the efforts of the rapporteur – and we thank her for that – during the processing of the proposal in committee.
In such a case, Community law will violate international law and, at the same time, will undermine the authority of the International Maritime Organisation, which is the only agency which can apply measures to protect the seas at international level because, we must not forget, shipping is a global activity which cannot have numerous standards.
Moreover, our international statistics tell us that, while international trade by sea is increasing, cases of pollution are decreasing.
Another important element of this proposal is the criminalisation of work at sea because, in essence, the proposal also concerns this aspect.
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to approach this matter with a sense of responsibility and perspective and for us to vote for the amendment tabled by the New Democracy MEPs and their colleagues from other political groups and countries which aims to bring our proposal into line with the MARPOL international convention.
I thank you and I believe that, irrespective of the outcome of the vote, we need to look at a long-term strategy which goes beyond restrictive measures and criminal sanctions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, environmental pollution does happen, one way or the other.
The Commission proposal referred at the time to 390 illegal oil discharges in the Baltic in the year 2001 alone and 596 illegal discharges in the North Sea.
The prosecution and sentencing of marine polluters must not be thwarted by nations jealously guarding their rights of jurisdiction.
I believe all of us bear a great deal of responsibility for the natural world, including the seas and oceans.
Furthermore, it is essential that sanctions be applied to all those involved in the sea transport chain without exception, including the owners of the cargo and contracting agents, charterers, consignees, shipowners, classification societies and insurers, captains, crew members and others, regardless of whether they carry out their duties on land or at sea, if they are responsible for those accidents or dumping.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Wortmann-Kool, very warmly for her wonderful report and for all the work she has done, both with a view to agreeing on common positions amongst the parliamentary groups, and within the trialogue with the Council and the Commission, and with a view to completing this legislative procedure at this second reading.
I can inform you that our group has just accepted the thirteen compromise amendments and has also agreed to withdraw the three amendments we had presented.
The large majority of citizens call for stricter measures to prevent pollution from ships, which affects not only the environment and public health but also fishing and tourism.
A similar number of oil slicks was identified in 2001 in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea.
There are two aspects of importance for me in this debate.
I thus welcome the fact that both the Council and the rapporteur endorse the Marpol Convention.
Also, legislation without adequate monitoring and penalties is meaningless.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am disappointed that Amendment 7 of this report was rejected by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
It is, therefore, unjust that shipowners, masters and crew members who have taken all reasonable measures to prevent pollution resulting from an accident should be treated in the same way as people who have committed intentional pollution, or pollution resulting from reckless or negligent behaviour.
There are two reasons why I believe this approach is illogical.
Firstly, because it goes beyond, if it is not contrary to, MARPOL.
I am aware that a lot has been done to reach a compromise on this issue and I thank the rapporteur for this.
We all agree on the need to regulate ship-source pollution, but in doing so we must, and should, adopt a practical approach that can help us reach our goals in an effective yet pragmatic manner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also wish to thank the rapporteur and the Commissioner for his interesting remarks.
As Mr Piecyk, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, Mr Papadimoulis and others have said, most oil pollution does not come from the disasters which get the headlines, but from deliberate discharges.
It is vital that we combat these illegal acts together in a vigorous way, and this compromise is a positive step forward.
Cooperation on European issues to counter criminality or carelessness is important and I yield to no one in my determination to do all that we can to prevent pollution and protect the environment.
From the UK's point of view, its coastguard functions include search-and-rescue and its borderline of responsibility, the zone, abuts those of the United States and Canada.
Therefore the area of responsibility for UK coastguards is somewhat larger than that of some of the other countries.
The relevant directive on pollution at sea, which introduces sanctions for infringements, comes within the framework of this anti-grass roots policy of reinforcing the competitiveness of companies and increasing the profitability of big business.
My country, Malta, is highly susceptible because it is dependent on tourism, and our maritime philosophy has always been appreciated, especially as we were one of the forerunners with relation to certain theories regarding the common heritage of mankind, especially with regard to the sea bed.
Up to now, I have not been given a direct and concrete answer as to whether this directive will affect ships that are not registered in countries within the European Union.
The effect will be that ships currently registered in Greece, Cyprus and Malta will migrate to other flag countries.
It is also the case that pollution in the seas and in the marine environment is a genuine cross-border problem and a genuine cross-border challenge.
The investigations which ensued in the wake of this tragic incident proved that responsibility in such cases is apportioned between numerous agencies and agents involved.
Unfortunately, we had to suffer a major ecological disaster in order to understand that, although the overwhelming majority of those engaged in shipping act responsibly, there are a few whose irresponsibility can have a tremendous adverse impact on the marine environment.
Greece, a country with a long shipping tradition, has not so far suffered any major accidental pollution, thanks to the conscientiousness of workers in the shipping sector and, of course, of shipowners and Greek seafarers and everyone else involved.
As Greek socialists with a real awareness about both environmental protection and protection of the people who work in the shipping sector, we support the proposal and believe that the present proposal for a directive is a positive step in combating both operational and accidental pollution and intentional pollution, as the rapporteur, Mrs Wortmann-Kool, rightly stated.
Firstly, I cannot allow it to be said that a conflict exists between this proposal for a directive and the Marpol Convention, as this is entirely untrue.
I therefore find this criticism puzzling, as the directive complies with both the Marpol Convention and the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Sanctions can be imposed on ships flying flags of third countries when these ships enter a Community port.
I would add that not only do we believe this approach to comply fully with that of the International Maritime Organisation, it is also our aim to cooperate with this organisation, as I have told the IMO Secretary-General.
I asked, and I still await his answer, whether, with regard to discharges made outside home waters, there is discrimination between ships flying flags of European nations and those flying flags of third countries.
I should like the Commissioner to answer that question, and not a question that I did not ask. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Attard-Montalto, strictly speaking that was not a point of order; I believe instead that your comments related to a personal accusation.
My point is that ships flying flags of third countries are subject to regulations when they enter a Community port; I believe that you agree on this matter, even though I may not be answering your question in full.
He may have other situations in mind, and so I would suggest that the two of us meet to discuss the issue in more detail. &#160;&#160; The presidency of the sitting would like to thank you for being so accommodating, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Its aim is to harmonise information services on inland waterways in the Community, and indeed Parliament called for such a directive in its resolution on the White Paper on European transport policy.
The Commission has acknowledged for many years that inland waterways offer enormous potential for substitution, given the problems of overuse experienced by other transport sectors.
The directive serves a dual purpose.
The Council and Parliament have adopted a constructive approach that should enable us to adopt the directive without delay and to embark on the implementation of river information services.
Turning to the correlation tables, the Commission obviously regrets the fact that the obligation to provide such tables has been included only in a recital, and not in an article.
As Commissioner Barrot has said, it is the Commission that has focused most sharply on the potential of this mode of transport, and a few years ago now, back in September&#160;2001, its White Paper on European transport policy for 2010 formulated the aim of reinforcing the position of inland navigation as an alternative mode of transport to which a considerable volume of road traffic could be switched.
Many people evidently find it difficult to recognise the real significance of inland navigation, and yet such great importance attaches to the potential role of inland waterways in the EU.
It was therefore high time that the Commission fleshed out the statements of intent from the White Paper, which it did in May of last year in this proposal for a directive on river-traffic information services.
It is about applications of modern information and communication technology that should make it easier in future for Member States to manage traffic flows and transport operations on inland waterways.
Despite the enormous potential of the whole network, only 7% of all inland traffic, excluding air traffic, is carried on our inland waterways – yes, only 7%!
The present draft directive makes it possible to harness the potential of inland waterway transport more effectively and to include it in the intermodal transport chain.
Besides the fact that the work already done by such recognised international organisations as the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine is to be taken into account, we have now also agreed that these organisations will continue to be involved in the establishment of the harmonised river-traffic information services.
Commissioner Barrot has listed the potential applications of this RIS approach: fairway information, traffic information, traffic management, disaster-relief support – especially important, because we intend to include hazardous materials in the cargos shifted from roads to waterways – and information for transport management, statistics and customs and for waterway charges and port dues.
These types of information must be made accessible to all RIS users without discrimination.
Let me conclude by thanking the Council, the Commission, and particularly my fellow-Members the shadow rapporteurs for the cooperation between them, which has been extraordinarily good.
I extend the warmest of thanks to them, for without the cooperation of all parties the compromise we have here would not have been possible.
This is a matter we have addressed in other reports on other topics in our committee and I particularly welcome the rapporteur's Amendment 29, which calls on the Commission to consult representatives of the sector regularly.
I would like to support the rapporteur’s result wholeheartedly, because this directive has created a framework for River Information Services.
Consultation is necessary, and I should like to urge the Commissioner to involve the inland navigation sector in this technical process.
After all, successful inland navigation is essential for sustainable European transport. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for her truly excellent cooperation with us.
An interoperable cross-border information and communication system will help to realise our vision of making inland navigation as strong as any other link in the transport chain.
It would be a wise move to strengthen inland waterway transport in this way, given all the infrastructural developments that are required in other areas of the transport system.
RIS brings added value in environmental and economic terms, while also contributing to the overall efficiency of transport policies.
Firstly, the improvement of traffic and transport management makes it conceivable that something like the ‘just in time’ approach could be extended to supplies transported on our rivers.
RIS provides up-to-date information that can be used in the planning of journeys and the compilation of reliable timetables.
Thirdly, this directive will finally give us a standardised identification number too, a number plate for inland vessels.
Ports, of course, are often focal points of economic development, but many of them are not designed and equipped for trimodal operations.
There is still, however, one fly in the ointment, and that is the relatively non-binding nature of this directive.
It is for this reason that we now need to adopt without delay the various technical provisions and standards for the implementation of RIS in order to preclude the emergence of a patchwork of divergent RIS applications, if this has not already happened. &#160;&#160; First, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Sommer, who did a great job.
In line with the inter-institutional agreement and a number of other action plans, the Commission decided that all its proposals for directives should contain a specific provision to make it compulsory for Member States to establish tables illustrating the correlation between the act in question and the transposition measures.
However, during recent informal inter-institutional negotiations with the Dutch and Luxembourg presidencies on proposals for a Directive on River Information Services and a seafarers' certificate, it became clear that the Council is not willing to maintain that provision.
As the Commissioner said, the Council's solution is a recital which refers to the agreement on the subject and deletes the obligation imposed on Member States in the text of the Directive itself.
Our Group therefore decided to single out this issue and to request a split vote on Amendment 53.
I can only hope that the other Groups make every effort to improve the transparency of EU decision-making and follow our line in this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you for giving me the floor.
The talks were conducted in a pleasant atmosphere, and the majority of the Members who examined this proposal were women, a point that is worth re-emphasising.
If we do not manage to ensure that the interfaces between the various modes of transport actually work, we shall see very little freight haulage being shifted onto our rivers.
The second point is that waterway vessels must be made environmentally safer.
I intend to keep my remarks brief, Mr&#160;President, but I should like to start by thanking Mrs Sommer and the Committee on Transport and Tourism once again for their outstanding work, which I hope will result in the proposal being adopted at first reading.
The Commission should be able to agree to the compromise reached during the informal trialogue held with the Council.
If we wish to increase the use of rivers for transport purposes, we really must succeed in putting intermodality into practice.
Mr President, I should therefore like to thank this House in advance for closely monitoring the implementation of this directive, which I hope will allow us to enhance river navigation in Europe(1). &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0057/2004) by Mr&#160;Robert&#160;Evans, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of seafarers’ certificates issued by the Member States and amending Directive 2001/25/EC. &#160;&#160; .
The proposal before you responds to these two concerns by providing for recognition at EU level of seafarers’ certificates issued by any Member State.
I can confirm that the Council has given me an understanding, in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty, that if we vote according to plan tomorrow, we can adopt this without further ado.
We need to provide for a common European system of freedom of movement.
The current lack of availability of local staff means there is a vacuum which, as in other industries, will be filled by migrant labour.
My report is a timely measure, updating the existing European directive that dates from 2001.
It aims to reduce the current administrative burden, combat discrimination and promote the mobility of workers in the maritime sector.
The training and certification requirements for seafarers are laid down by the International Maritime Organization, which also contains agreements on the recognition of certificates.
At the moment, the system of recognition for certificates from third countries has been simplified, which leads to a rather unsatisfactory situation in which it is easier and simpler to get recognition for certificates from outside the European Union than it is to get recognition for certificates from within the European Union.
This will also apply to workers from third countries who might be affected by accidents if no provision for language proficiency was established.
Finally, my report states that the Commission should prepare an evaluation report after five years.
It is therefore absolutely essential to improve training for seafarers, and to eliminate the existing shortcomings in order to attract enough young Europeans into these professions.
The proposed amendments further the Commission’s goals.
As I just said, any measures that promote the free movement of seafarers, as well as any measures that make it possible to carry out strict checks on existing rules and to combat illegal practices associated with seafarers’ certificates, are steps in the right direction.
I can therefore tell you, Mr&#160;Evans, that the Commission accepts all of Parliament’s amendments.
As I said with regard to the previous text, Mr&#160;President, we must reach an interinstitutional agreement in order to implement this provision, as it will make it easier to apply anything that is decided by your Parliament, in agreement with the Council.
I am counting on Parliament’s support for this key text, which will promote the free movement of seafarers between Member States, and which I hope will give rise to fresh enthusiasm for this much-needed profession(1). &#160;&#160; Commissioner, the House would like to thank you for having joined it at the helm of this particular ship.
The debate is closed.
The Commission views the establishment of the agency as a crucial element in the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy.
You will recall that the creation of this agency is a clear signal that more uniform and effective enforcement of the rules is a priority for the reformed common fisheries policy.
On an operational level, we see the agency as a means of strengthening the tools and methods of control undertaken by Member States.
The Commission is very pleased with the close cooperation it has had with the rapporteur and the members of the Committee on Fisheries during our work on this important proposal.
Let me now turn to the amendments proposed in the report before us.
The Commission can accept Amendment 1.
The Commission has difficulty in accepting Amendment 2.
The Commission can accept Amendment 3.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 4, 25 and 27.
The proposal is based on the need to strike a balance between the part played by the Member States and the necessity at Commission level to ensure that the agency develops in conformity with the stated objectives of the common fisheries policy.
The Commission has difficulty in accepting Amendment 5.
Research activities directly related to control can, of course, be considered.
The Commission can accept Amendment 6.
As far as Amendment 7 is concerned, the Commission has difficulty in accepting the substance of this amendment as currently worded.
It is too restrictive in that not all fisheries agreements currently include an enforcement arrangement.
Although the Commission cannot accept Amendment 8, the scope of the agency can, of course, include the control of vessels involved in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing as long as it is within the framework of schemes adopted by regional fisheries organisations.
The Commission can accept Amendments 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13.
However, the Commission has a difficulty with Amendment 14 concerning the provision of information on the applicability and cost-effectiveness of the rules of the common fisheries policy with regard to control and inspection, since it would substantially modify the mission and tasks of the agency.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 15 since Article 7 refers only to the obligations of Member States.
It should be noted, however, that the Commission has a right to request that the agency provide services relating to the obligations of the Community under Article 5 of the proposal.
I can certainly agree to the important role that the agency will play in training; however, I have difficulty in accepting Amendment 16 since the agency should not be obliged to create a training centre.
The Commission can accept Amendment 17.
As for Amendment 18, the Commission has difficulty in accepting the substance of the amendment as currently worded.
The suggested role of the Advisory Committee for Fisheries and Aquaculture (ACFA) cannot be accepted, as it would put this body, which is of an advisory character only, in a position that is similar to those of the Community institutions such as the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
For the same reason the Commission cannot accept Amendments 22, 42 and 43.
While the Commission cannot accept Amendment 19, it accepts that there is a need to amend the text of the second recital so that it refers to activities both within Community waters and outside Community waters.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 21.
The Commission has difficulty with Amendments 23 and 24.
Secondly, concerning the appointment of the fishing industry representatives, the Commission proposal follows the pattern of other agencies wherever stakeholder representatives are present in administrative boards.
The Commission has difficulty in accepting Amendment 26 as the administrative board must be able to examine specific items on its agenda without the presence of industry representatives where there is an issue of confidentiality or conflict of interest.
The Commission can accept Amendments 28, 29, 30 and 31.
The Commission believes that it is in the Community interest that it retains the power to propose the dismissal of the executive director and that this should be on the basis of a simple majority; otherwise, the position of the Commission is weakened.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 33 as it is felt that three years is too short a period within which to have an external evaluation.
The Commission has difficulty in accepting Amendment 34 as the text of the Commission proposal is consistent with standard agreed drafting rules whereas the amendment is not.
In the view of the committee, the Agency should also play a significant role in the fight against illegal unreported and unregulated fishing, including in appropriate circumstances its occurrence outside Community waters.
Where the report differs significantly from the Commission proposal is in the belief that the fishing industry, not the Commission, should nominate its own representatives to the administrative board and that these representatives should have the right to vote.
Two concern the role of regional advisory councils.
Similarly, Article 13 specifies that Member States, and I quote again: 'shall commit and make available those means of control and inspection that are identified in the joint deployment plan'.
The ALDE Group amendments are designed to reconcile these differing interpretations and to ensure that the rules and the practice march hand in hand.
It may be symbolic that after the ‘yes’ for the Constitution in Spain, the Fisheries Control Agency will be based in Vigo, which appears to me to be a just reward, given also the major political efforts made by our fellow MEPs to achieve this positive outcome with regard to the Constitution.
At the same time, I am somewhat disappointed with the response from the Commissioner, who claimed that many of the amendments that the Committee on Fisheries had approved were either unacceptable or impractical.
This gap must be closed, and the sector’s own commitment and contribution, as well as those of the fisheries organisations in the board of this Fisheries Control Agency, could very well help close that gap between the European Union and the fisheries sector.
For this reason, we support the proposal for the establishment of a European Fisheries Control Agency.
There are, however, wide disparities between the various fishing regions in the European Union.
The common fisheries policy has undergone further development over the past few years, but the international obligations of the European Union with regard to fisheries remain a major element of the CFP.
The aim must be the improvement of national control structures, with the Member States continuing to determine how they use their own control instruments.
In our view, some of the rapporteur’s amendments do not contribute to the pursuit of these aims and are too broad in their scope.
The competence of the agency must remain clearly visible.
The environmental crisis in the North Sea is man-made.
Poor old Francis Drake must be turning in his grave.
Perhaps we should get ready to light the beacons! &#160;&#160; Mr President, to believe in a Community fisheries control agency, one has to believe in the common fisheries policy.
I cannot support the common fisheries policy, and therefore I will not support a Community control agency.
Faced with the probable reality of the Community fisheries control agency, I will use my vote in this House, as I did in committee, to seek to restrict its ambit and enhance national input. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I, on the other hand, do support and applaud the creation of the Fisheries Control Agency and I would therefore simply ask that it become operational as soon as possible.
Furthermore, the amendments introduced by the Committee on Fisheries considerably improve and supplement both the Commission’s initial proposal and the rapporteur’s report in terms of the genuine responsibilities the Agency should have and without prejudice to the competences that currently fall to the Member States.
This Agency is a step in the right direction in terms of increasing the prominence of those attitudes and, although there is still much to be done, in particular, in relation to the transparency of the criteria for inspections by Member States and European harmonisation on legislation and penalties, having it will be the best guarantee that this can be resolved in the near future.
Commissioner, I believe that the role of the Committee on Fisheries has been very evident during the work on this report, both that of the rapporteur, Mrs Attwooll, who has worked extremely hard and who I believe has done laudable work and, from what I know is an entirely Europeanist point of view, that of those of us who have tried to amend her report in the best possible spirit from two points of view.
Nevertheless, I recognise that even in circumstances in which Britain is no longer a participating member of the CFP, we will still have many vessels fishing outwith the UK 200-mile limit and in EU and international waters.
In these circumstances, and accepting that this proposal is a , it is therefore important that we support a workable proposal for the creation of an EU fisheries control agency.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Attwooll on the great work she has done on this report.
I hope the Commission will reconsider that. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to join in the words of congratulation for Mrs&#160;Attwooll on her excellent report.
It was a good idea.
The creation of the agency in Vigo has the potential to help create more uniform, more effective control and inspection procedures and so increase compliance.
A feasibility study published after the drafting of the regulation suggested that such potential will only be fulfilled if certain organisational and operational criteria are met.
This led the rapporteur, Mrs Attwooll, to propose a number of amendments clarifying the text.
Many members of the Committee on Fisheries argued that the rapporteur's amendments watered down the role of the agency.
The draft report seemed, to me, to clarify the role and responsibility of the Member States, the Commission and the agency and to improve regional involvement.
The amendment retabled by the rapporteur aimed to make sure that the role of the agency as a facilitator is clear.
Information about the activities of the agency should be widely circulated and an annual assessment given to the European Parliament, the Commission, the Member States, the Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture and the regional advisory councils.
In reply to the rapporteur, Mrs Attwooll, I repeat that, with regard to illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, it is important to have these in the work programme, but the Commission does not agree that they should be indicated as a priority task since priorities can change and, therefore, it would be an unnecessary curtailment of the priorities with regard to the agency's functions.
Let me turn to the comments made by Mr Maat.
The five-year period is necessary as the Commission considers that three years is too short a period in which to carry out the necessary evaluation.
On the lack of trust between representatives of the fishery industry and the Commission, I would like to say here that the Fisheries Control Agency is a start.
Mr Allister again made the same comments as Mr Booth.
As regards the others, the Commission's view is that they do not, because they tend to go beyond the scope of the proposal and of the agency, or else destroy the necessary balance of the control mechanism.
Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna said that a list of competences is not enough: this is noted.
With regard to Mrs Stihler's point on the watering down or otherwise, I can only repeat what I said to Mrs Attwooll.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question (O-0005/2005 - B6-0010/2005) to the Commission on the International Plan of Action on by-catch reduction. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, the debate that has just been held will have given you some indication of the keen interest my fellow Members and I have in the credibility of the common fisheries policy, whether this interest stems from a desire to strengthen it or, as in the case of a number of Members, to do quite the contrary, namely to challenge it.
As you are well aware, this problem has been a source of concern to our committee for many years, and has prompted your Commission, with our agreement, to arrange for several hundred studies to be carried out, with the aim of finding a solution if possible.
There is an urgent need to adopt an International Plan of Action on by-catch reduction, which could play a pivotal role in reducing by-catch internationally.
It is fitting that we have an exchange of views in Plenary in advance of the opening of the FAO Committee on Fisheries, which is meeting on 7 March.
I note that this issue has already been raised in the question submitted by Mrs&#160;Attwooll and Mr Davies on behalf of the ALDE Group, to which a written response has been provided, and that I have had the opportunity of replying to a recent letter from Mrs Attwooll in the same vein.
There is already a considerable on specific by-catch issues dealt with in various international agreements and other instruments, including standing international action plans.
However, I agree with you that to reduce by-catch and discards of non-target species, there is considerable room for improved international co-operation, and the figures mentioned illustrate the magnitude of the problem and the urgency with which the matter should be considered.
Within the scope of its powers, the Community is already taking action under the common fisheries policy on a number of fronts.
Specific measures were reported in the Commission’s reply to the written question submitted by Mr Davies in November 2003 on the by-catch associated with shrimp fisheries.
These include: the Action Plan on discards; financial incentives for the use of selective fishing gear under Council Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999; a specific three-year research project under the 6th Framework Programme to develop low-impact, species-selective fishing gears, and to formulate alternative fishing tactics; the setting of by-catch quotas in bilateral fisheries partnership agreements; the obligations to monitor discards for specific stocks set forth in the Data Collection Regulation.
Regular efforts are also made to integrate by-catch reduction measures in Community regulations establishing fishing limits through TACs, effort limitations and technical measures.
It is important that an internationally agreed set of principles is established that should not only build on the existing international , but go on to integrate and further develop the ecosystem approach in worldwide fisheries management.
Therefore, the Commission is ready to support the development of an international action plan on by-catch and will seek Member States' agreement to convey this position to the FAO and its members during the forthcoming Committee on Fisheries (COFI) meeting, in particular at the time that COFI’s work programme in the short and medium term is discussed.
It is estimated that fishermen discard up to 2 million tonnes of dead fish into the sea every year within EU waters as a result of high grading or simply because the fish are undersized or out of quota.
In the context of declining fish stocks, the problem of by-catch is all the more regrettable.
In 2003 the European Parliament adopted an own-initiative report, drafted by Nils Busk, on the Commission action plan to reduce fish discards.
The report made many useful suggestions to improve on the Commission's strategy for dealing with the problem of discards.
Over the past 10 years the EU budget has contributed EUR&#160;8&#160;million annually to over 400 research projects aimed at increasing gear selectivity, reducing discards or quantifying the impact of fishing on the environment.
It is vital that the focus now shifts to by-catch reduction measures.
The next meeting of the Food and Agriculture Organization's committee on fisheries in March 2005 offers a valuable opportunity to propose an FAO international plan of action.
By-catch is a global problem that requires a genuinely global solution, a genuinely global commitment to tackling it.
I believe, too, that our citizens, like so many citizens across the globe, feel a real sense of responsibility for the stewardship of natural resources.
We must therefore ensure that, where nets are concerned, mesh sizes are adjusted in accordance with these minimum sizes.
The rules have been focused upon commercial species but, in the interests of the biosystems and of the commercial species’ health, we must conserve and protect the non-commercial species too.
If we do not find solutions to these problems, our oceans will soon be as empty as this House is at the moment. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I, too, was naturally pleased with Commissioner Borg’s positive response to the clear issue that our committee and, in particular, our chair, have brought before this House at a most opportune moment.
I should like to say, however, that, to my mind, so-called by-catch is, more than anything, a problem of civilisation.
There has been such a ban in the Azores for a very long time, where the practice had never previously existed.
As I said in my original response, we are willing to do so but we have to have the necessary resources made available to us because this will be a mammoth task.
Here I would like to say that one way in which the Commission tries to reduce discards is by improving selectivity by technical measures such as enforcing minimum mesh sizes or closed areas which can limit the catches of juveniles.
Nevertheless technical measures have a part to play.
The Commission intends to revise completely the technical measures regulation in 2005 to follow up its communication on environmentally-friendly fishing.
Another approach advocated by the Commission is to manage the fisheries through effort control rather than rely on individual TACs.
My final point concerning RACs is that they can be involved and certainly we find no problem in involving RACS in giving advice on the formulation of such plans. &#160;&#160; Many thanks, Commissioner.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 41, 44, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 56, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 68, 72, 75, 77, 78, 79 and 83.
The Commission can accept in principle the following amendments: 48, 52, 55, 60 and 86.
The Commission can accept in part the following amendments: 19, 28, 40, 42, 54, 57 and 84.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 39, 43, 66, 67, 69, 70, 71, 73, 74, 80, 81, 82, 85, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126 and 127.
The Commission can accept the following amendments, subject to rewording: 9, 10, 17, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23.
The Commission can accept the following amendments, subject to rewording: 1, 3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 16, 18, 19, 24, 26, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65 and 66.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
The Commission can accept the following amendments, subject to rewording: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
