Community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Romeva i Rueda, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy - C6-0510/2008 -.
The most important factor of a control system applied to 27 Member States is probably that all stakeholders should be treated equally and, in particular, that everyone along the production chain - fishermen, middlemen, buyers, people who have links to recreational fishing and others - should feel that they are not being discriminated against but also that they have their share of the responsibility on this matter.
It has since been amended a dozen times, in particular in 1998, to include the control of fishing effort, and in 2002 on the occasion of the last reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
Axis 2: instituting a global and integrated approach to control and inspection.
It establishes a level playing field for the industry by covering all aspects from capture through to the market.
Axis 3: the effective application of CFP rules.
Existing paper-based tools will be replaced at all stages of the fisheries chain - i.e.
The Commission can agree with an important number of amendments, in particular Amendments 3, 6, 9, 10, 11, 13 to 18, 26 to 28, 30, 31, 36, 44, 45, 51 to 55, 57, 58, 62, 63, 66 to 69, 82, 84, 85, and 92 to 98.
Regarding Amendment 29 on prior notifications, the Commission believes that the idea to reserve the granting of exemptions to the Council would complicate enormously the procedure and would not allow for timely reactions to developments on the ground.
On transhipments of stocks subject to multiannual plans, Amendment 42 deletes the entire Article 33.
For that reason it is essential to maintain Article 33 and that quantities to be transhipped are weighed by an independent body before they are taken on the transport vessel.
Amendment 102 is not acceptable since it deletes the article on the ability for the Commission to close fisheries if so required by the Commission.
Similarly, the Commission cannot accept Amendment 103, which deletes the provisions on corrective measures.
As regards new technologies: concerning the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) and the Vessel Detection System (VDS), Amendment 19 foresees the entry into force of these electronic devices for vessels between 10 and 15 metres as of 1 July 2013, instead of 1 January 2012, as laid down in the proposal.
Regarding Amendment 19, the proposal already provides for a transition period, as this obligation would only apply as of 1 January 2012, whereas the entry into force of the regulation is foreseen for 1 January 2010.
However, I would like to stress that it is important to maintain an obligation for Member States to evaluate the impact of recreational fisheries as set out in Amendment 93, and not just the possibility to do so as contemplated in Amendments 48, 49 and 50.
The Commission, of course, wants to ensure that the final regulation adopted by the Council achieves a fair balance between, on the one hand, obtaining accurate information on the impact of recreational fisheries on recovery stocks - following a case by case analysis - and, on the other, ensuring that recreational fishers, whose catches clearly have a negligible biological impact, are not burdened with disproportionate requirements.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment.
Amendment 107 deletes the minimum and maximum levels of sanctions proposed by the Commission.
This is not acceptable, since comparable sanctions in all Member States is an important element to achieve the same degree of deterrence in all Community waters and thus create a level playing field through the establishment of a common framework at the Community level.
Concerning the powers of the Commission: Amendment 71 imposes the presence of an official of a Member State during inspections carried out by the Commission, and in the same vein, Amendment 108 limits the possibility for the Commission to carry out inquiries and inspections only in cases where a Member State has been previously informed.
Amendments 104, 108, 109 and 110 are also problematic since they restrict the competencies of Community inspectors, restrict their ability to perform autonomous verifications and autonomous inspections.
Without such competencies for Community inspectors, the Commission cannot ensure the same quality of application of CFP rules in all Member States.
Amendment 72 takes away the basis according to which Community financial assistance can be suspended or cancelled when there is evidence that provisions of the regulation have not been complied with.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment.
On the other hand, Amendments 111 and 112 limit the competence of the Commission to suspend Community financial assistance.
In order to ensure that the rules of the CFP are equally applied in all Member States and to avoid a particular threat to sensitive stocks, it is important that the Commission has the possibility to close a fishery when the relevant Member State fails to do so itself.
Amendments 74 to 78 reduce substantially the pressure on Member States to respect national quotas.
Amendments 79 and 80 delete Articles 98 and 100, which give the Commission the possibility of deducting quotas and to refuse quota exchange for failure to comply with the objectives of the CFP.
The Commission wishes to maintain this provision, which is an important instrument, to ensure the respect of the CFP rules by Member States.
Amendment 114 proposes the deletion of Article 101 on emergency measures.
I would once again like to thank Mr Romeva i Rueda for the report and the committee for the attention it has given to this very important issue.
Given that control is a permanent feature of any management system, it would have been much more sensible to coordinate both reforms without running the risk of the 2012 reform leaving this proposal obsolete; some of its measures are not even due to come into effect until 2012 at the earliest.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mr Romeva i Rueda, who I congratulate on his openness, has the principal objective of ensuring respect for the rules of the common fisheries policy.
In the last 10 years I have heard many criticisms of it, including the lack of a level playing field, insufficient stakeholder involvement, inadequate balancing of economic, social and environmental imperatives and too much by way of micro-management from the centre.
I mention here Article 47 of the control regulation, at least in its original version.
Article 5 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic could not be clearer.
As a result, in accordance with and fighting to ensure respect for the provisions enshrined in Portugal's fundamental law, we tabled an amendment stating that this proposal for a regulation should respect and not threaten the competence and responsibility of Member States with regard to inspecting compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
We have regulated their fishing since 1983, so for 26 years.
However, since the entry into force of the Treaty of Rome, Articles 32 to 39 on the CAP have also related to them, and the very first Community regulation on fishing came into force in 1970.
For 39 years we have been legislating: on the shock of the arrival of Spain in 1986, and of Denmark in 1993, on gillnets, driftnets, fishery agents, total allowable catches, quotas, aid, fleet restructuring, and modernisation.
If a Member State does not think it is necessary to pursue this course of action, I hope you would respect the subsidiarity principle. (SV) Mr President, as a eurosceptic, I often feel a certain Schadenfreude when various EU institutions come up with unreasonable and ridiculous proposals like Article 47.
Get the balance right, please, Commissioner Borg. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, your proposal is absolutely fundamental.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for this interesting debate.
Therefore, were we to take up the amendments that he suggests, we would actually be moving backwards with regard to control and enforcement, rather than strengthening the provisions that need to be strengthened.
If we fail to realise that we all have to play our part in sharing responsibility, it is unlikely that we will achieve the desired result.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 22 April 2009.
