In a letter dated 29 April 2009, the two co-chairmen of the Conciliation Committee informed Parliament and the Council of Ministers that it was not possible to come to an agreement on a joint text within the deadline specified in Article 251(5) of the EC Treaty.
However, if we consider the three points which remained in dispute until the end - the opt-out from weekly working time, the conditions of on-call time and the multiple contracts per worker - the differences in positions were so great that there was no possibility of reaching an agreement which would have been compatible with the European Parliament resolution of 17 December 2008.
On the subject of on-call time, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has made it clear that on-call time is working time.
It was also obvious to the Parliament delegation that on-call time is necessary when a continuation of work is required.
Taking a flexible approach, Parliament also supported the proposal for a maximum working time of 48 hours per worker and not per contract.
I also believe that at some points the Commission could have submitted proposals which offered more of a balance between the position of the Council and that of Parliament.
During this parliamentary term, Parliament has adopted 389 legal acts in the codecision procedure.
The Council, for example, wanted to reduce the maximum weekly working time when using the opt-out from 78 hours to 60 or 65 hours and proposed banning the use of opt-outs when signing an employment contract or limiting the period of consent given by employees to work in an opt-out regime to one year.
The Council's aim was to restrict the use of opt-out in the Member States, but primarily to enhance the protection of employees who are using the opt-out.
The first meeting of the Member States on this topic was held in Prague on 13 January.
At this point I would like to thank the Commission, and especially Commissioner Špidla, for its specialist assistance and constructive approach in searching for a possible compromise over the wording of the directive.
The Council also made concessions during the debate on harmonising work and family life in the deadline for providing supplementary daytime rest and in the definition of top-ranking employees, and I could list further examples.
Speaking on behalf of the Czech Presidency, I am frankly sorry that Parliament was unwilling to compromise and to agree on a revised directive, which has been awaited not only by Member States but also by EU citizens for five long years.
Use of the opt-out will not be restricted, no monitoring will be introduced, and workers will have to continue working up to 78 hours a week.
The Commission also proposed introducing consistent monitoring of the use of exceptions at national and European levels, and imposing restrictions on the simultaneous use of exceptions, which would have reduced the incentive for Member States to grant exceptions.
I know that many of you have raised the objection that workers would work 65 hours a week, and I fully understand those concerns, but the fact is that the current directive allows for a working week of up to 70 hours.
Only then can the Commission proceed to another decision and another course of action.
I would also like to say that it is a myth that this is purely the fault of the Council, while the majority of those in Parliament, like knights in shining armour, have sacrificed themselves in the interests of the workers.
In is true that the Council did not move an inch on the question of the opt-out, but the majority in Parliament was equally inflexible in insisting that a solution was only possible if the opt-out was abolished.
For example, it would have been possible to put in place a European on-call time regulation which specified for the whole of Europe that 'on-call time is working time', as the Court of Justice of the European Communities has laid down.
As our President has said, an agreement has not been reached because the Council's proposal has always been to move backwards, back beyond the 19th century, making employment law merely a bilateral relationship between the worker and the employer, without laws or regulations, without anything to respect beyond so-called 'free choice', forgetting that there is always an imbalance of power between the worker and the employer.
A minority in the Council wanted the opt-out, which was temporary in 1993, to become permanent and, with Parliament's vote, to be forever, leaving the hope and dignity in this battle to us.
Fortunately, Parliament has not fallen to its knees before the Council and fortunately, Commissioner, there will be a new Parliament here, a new executive Council and there will probably be changes in Member States' governments; the workers of Europe have hope: the mandate of 17 December has been retained, and we will continue our fight, Commissioner. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, obviously we know that there was stalemate, but better no agreement than a bad agreement in my view.
The Commission proposals have ridden roughshod over labour law and called into question something which would generally have been regarded as a legal minimum standard.
In all seriousness, he wanted to introduce exceptions to a long-term solution which would allow people to work up to 78 hours per week.
Madam President, we welcome the lack of agreement between the European Parliament and the Council on the amendment of the Directive on the organisation of working time, because what was proposed was worse than what currently exists, in relation to both the average working day and on-call time.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, President Klaus remarked on 18 February that the EU structure is a dogma which contradicts the experience of heritage.
The fact that there are currently 15 countries using the opt-out is because the proportion of on-call time is not sufficient to meet actual needs.
I can also tell you that we made some progress during the negotiations.
Where on-call time and time off in lieu are concerned, I consider it progress that we all said that on-call time counted as working hours.
On the one side was the Council, with a blocking minority that absolutely did not want to remove the opt-out, and on the other - and this is often forgotten - a large majority in the European Parliament that does very much want to get rid of the opt-out because it has nothing to do with health and safety.
It was not the case, Mr Sedláĉek, that the Council accepted all the conditions set by Parliament as regards conditions for the opt-out.
President-in-Office of the Council, it is clear that you have achieved your aims.
The Court of Justice is forcing you to regard all on-call time as working time; you have therefore lost nothing on that score.
The opt-out that you want still exists in practice, as opposition to progress has carried it through.
It is with that vote that we go before the electorate - I would like to say to Mrs Lynne - since we do in fact have a mandate from the electorate.
They will see that here was a directive born and bred in the early 1990s when the Socialists were the largest party in this House and when the Left was running the majority of Member State governments; that here was a directive which, however well intentioned, reflects the standard Socialist dogma that people cannot be relied upon to make their own choices about their own work/life balance, that politicians always know best and that, of course, European politicians know best of all; that here was a directive on working time that has simply never worked.
We have a directive which clearly cannot be implemented, and what has been the reaction of this Parliament?
I just hope that our new colleagues, right across the House, will show more sense, will show that they are listening to the people and not dictating to them, will bin the directive rather than ban the opt-out, and will start afresh. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, it is a fact that after five years of intensive efforts to amend the directive on the organisation of working time we are bringing the fiasco of our endeavours to a close today.
Parliament has not managed to reach an understanding with the Council and adopt new and better legislation which would improve the situation of workers, including by reducing the maximum length of the working week permissible with the consent of the worker from 78 hours to 65 hours.
Late in the day, the Commission came forward with a compromise proposal, but the Council did not budge one inch, so it should not blame Parliament for this breakdown.
Then, exactly 125 years ago, the initial impetus was given for the introduction of the eight-hour working day in the United States.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, this was a very interesting debate for me.
I would like to say that in this respect the Council has gone quite a long way to meet Parliament and has agreed that on-call time would be regarded as work time, contrary to the common position, which was quite different.
The Council even proposed to Parliament that this directive should regulate the issue of on-call time only and leave the issue of the opt-out for another time, but Parliament did not respond to this.
The Council proposed restrictions both on monitoring and on the introduction of opt-outs.
I would like to say in conclusion only that we are extremely disappointed not to have reached an agreement, but if you keep on refusing to see the reality of everyday life, which is that 15 of the 27 Member States are using the opt-out and that there are currently not enough workers in many professions to do the job, especially in the new Member States, then the opt-out simply has to continue being the reality of the day.
In 2003, the European Court of Justice ruled that on-call time spent at the workplace counts as working hours.
It was also made clear that on-call time would not be regarded as a necessary continuation of working time.
This was not the position of Parliament.
Reaching agreement on this issue would have been much more beneficial to each party concerned than continuing the legal wrangling.
