In 2007, some 800 000 colonies were wiped out.
In Croatia, five million bees disappeared in less than 48 hours.
Bees contribute over GBP 100 million a year to the UK economy and around EUR 400 million to the European economy, so you can see quite clearly that there is a huge problem.
Therefore I would ask the Commission - and if possible I want to be able to hand over some of my time to add to Astrid Lulling's because she was very much the driving force behind this - whether it can draw together more money for research.
As regards bee mortality and research, in February this year the Commission requested that the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) study the mortality in bees and its causes in the European Union.
Therefore, this assessment also covers the acute and long-term risks to honey bees and their larvae and the tests applied are based on standards developed by intergovernmental organisations such as, for example, the European and Mediterranean Plant Protection Organisation, in which 47 governments collaborate.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, when it is dangerous to delay, I can rely on the entire Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and its Chairman, my colleague Mr Parish.
In a situation in which bee colonies are becoming weaker and suffering excessive mortality, it is necessary to analyse all of the factors causing this increased bee mortality and to propose a plan of action to remedy this disastrous trend.
The Commission has just read to us a long paper about what it has already done, but I have to say that, in recent years, whilst I have been rapporteur on the apiculture situation - since 1994 - it has needed a lot of persuading to act, whilst with my colleagues I have strived to draw its attention to this alarming situation, which is widely known and which has been perfectly described, especially by my colleague, Mr Parish.
If you have a billion to send to Africa without any checks - as you wish to do - to fight hunger, with all the disastrous consequences that would entail, you should be able to find some EUR 60 million to do something worthwhile here.
In my country, beekeeping involves around 27 000 producers who manage more than 2 300 000 hives.
Spanish beekeepers, together with all other beekeepers, are facing problems deriving not only from the reduction in pollen and nectar, but also from the appearance of new diseases which are decimating hives.
Commissioner, I would also mention to you specifically the Bumblebee Conservation Trust at Stirling University in Scotland which has done groundbreaking work into this.
As we have heard already, if we can find a billion euros to inflict on African development, I think we can find money to fund our own research.
It would be worth considering the introduction of a special support system for the beekeeping sector, in view of its highly beneficial impact on the natural environment. (PL) Madam President, may I congratulate Mrs Lulling and thank her for her indefatigable and passionate concern for the interests of the European beekeeping industry.
It is a good thing that we are debating this problem, because beekeepers in Europe and throughout the world are alarmed and worried by the deaths of their bees.
Amendment 2 is stating the obvious, Amendment 3 is unintelligible, and Amendment 4 duplicates paragraph 8, which clearly calls for intensified research into the effects of pesticides on bee mortality, and furthermore states that authorisation for such products should be made dependent on this research, as is already the case.
A call for proposals was published on 3 September this year, on the theme of food agriculture and fisheries biotechnology, on the identification of emerging honey bee pests and diseases, and the re-emergence of pathogens, aimed at elucidating the intimate mechanisms and reasons for the increased honey bee mortality.
The creation of the European research area, which I fully support, is actually exactly this idea - that we all know what we are doing and that we join the scientific expertise which we already have across Europe.
It is exactly the analysis of the programme which you are searching for and I think it is important that we all look at what we have before us.
The only GMO crop currently cultivated in the European Union is Bt-maize MON 810.
For example, bee losses observed in southern Germany have been clearly attributed to poisoning by the pesticide Poncho Pro.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 November 2008.
They sell the honey they have themselves produced.
