Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 16 January 2003.
Since my assistant had no jacket or tie on, he was asked to leave the hearing and was therefore unable to do his work, a fact I am very unhappy about.
The international situation is not good and the time has come for us to hold a debate within this institution to consider how the most burning issues currently on the international scene can be viewed, and if possible resolved, from a European perspective.
I have seen the placards that some Members of this Parliament have displayed very clearly, and I would like to say that unfortunately, or fortunately in other respects, I am talking to you from the point of view of an old Europe, because of my age, but also because of my affection for everything which is represented by the Europe of yesterday, the Europe of today and the Europe of tomorrow.
Mr President, do not imagine that I am so old, I am going to carry on working and pestering people for a few more years. (Applause) Mr President, in the short time available to me this afternoon, if the honourable Members will allow me, I would like to discuss four or five points which I believe are essential to a global understanding of the international situation.
The first is undoubtedly Iraq.
I also believe it would be a mistake not to say a few words about North Korea, given the dramatic situation at the moment, and I will end with a very brief comment on the operations the European Union is beginning to plan for the deployment of forces in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the General Affairs Council is taking place this week and next week and they are going to be extremely important weeks in terms of finding a solution to the Iraq crisis.
On Monday morning, for the first time, there was a concertation procedure, in accordance with Article 19 of the EU Treaty, between the Presidency, the troika and the members of the European Union sitting on the United Nations Security Council here in Brussels at ministerial level.
This is the first time that anything of this nature has taken place; there had been many concertation meetings in New York, but there had never been a meeting here in Brussels at ministerial level of the two permanent members and the two non-permanent members of the Security Council together with the Presidency, Commissioner Patten and myself.
I would like to say very briefly that in the meeting there was general consensus at least on four essential points which the European Union wishes to defend in all fora.
Firstly: we all have an interest in Iraq getting rid of weapons of mass destruction and this is something that all Europeans should agree on.
One of the most serious problems we are going to face during this century is unquestionably the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Therefore, to try, by every means possible, and in accordance with the resolutions of the Security Council, to ensure that Baghdad gets rid of all weapons of mass destruction must be a priority for the European Union.
The second important point is Iraq's responsibility to cooperate actively with the inspectors.
I also had the opportunity to speak with them subsequently, and I will therefore not insist on this since I am sure that the Presidency has informed Parliament in a clear manner.
The third point, which I believe is essential to point out, is that we must give all the necessary support to the inspectors.
If they are capable of convincing the Security Council of the situation, I am sure that the Security Council will also convince public opinion of the current situation in Baghdad.
And there are essentially three types of suggestions or requests that the inspectors could make to us, firstly: that they require more resources, more resources than they currently have, more inspectors and more logistical resources; secondly: they may need more time; and thirdly: they may need more information or more intelligence.
And the fourth point, which I believe is absolutely essential and which must be defended by the Europeans, is that the whole of this process relating to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and more specifically the issue of Iraq, must remain within the framework of the United Nations Security Council.
It must be carried out within the framework of the United Nations, which is the institution which must provide the legitimacy for any action in relation to this issue. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, you are well aware of the differing positions expressed by various Members of the European Union, but you also know that there are not just the opinions of the leaders in the European Union, but we also have clear and convincing surveys of the thoughts of the European citizens.
Our intention as Europeans must be to ensure that Resolution 1441, which was unanimously approved by the United Nations Security Council and which was approved unanimously by the Arab League two days later, should become a reality and that Saddam Hussein and the Iraqi regime can disarm without the need for military force.
Therefore, the countries of the European Union and all of us who serve the European Union will work with all our might, day and night, to try to prevent a conflict and to ensure that Saddam Hussein abandons weapons of mass destruction without our turning to military force.
As you know, a debate began today in the Security Council on the basis of the report produced by the inspection chiefs 48 hours ago.
As you are aware, yesterday the President of the United States made an important speech.
I believe and I insist that the centre of gravity of this process must continue to be the United Nations Security Council and I therefore believe it very appropriate that the information that certain countries currently have should be debated within it and that, if possible, that information should also be passed on to the inspectors.
You also know that there will be other consultations in the coming days ? (Applause) ?
and let us hope that the inspectors can have more time to continue their work and, if possible, as I said before, to complete their mandate in accordance with Resolution 1441.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is involved in this process: four Members of the European Union are on the Security Council, one candidate for membership of the European Union is on the Security Council and I am sure that the countries making up that Council will make every possible effort so that what we are saying here becomes reality in the coming days.
Yesterday elections took place in Israel, and I believe we must learn at least three important lessons from these elections.
It is surprising - or at least it surprises me - that in view of the situation we are facing in the Middle East electoral turn-out should be so low.
The two great parties, which have historically defended peace, which have been the centre of gravity in terms of peace, have suffered damage.
But, in any event, from a European point of view we must maintain our policy and our policy is still the one contained in the work of the Quartet and the one contained in the road map which was approved in Washington not long ago.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have the obligation, as Europeans, to do everything possible to ensure that this process, which will begin following yesterday's elections, will be a process which leads to a good result, and so that the initiatives taken do not meet the same fate as previous initiatives, such as the Mitchell report or the Tenet Plan and other important reports which have been adopted but which have not been able to be implemented.
My appeal would therefore be that we should do everything possible to ensure that these documents do not remain simply documents in the archives but that they be implemented in reality.
Ladies and gentlemen, during the short time available to me for this first speech, I would also like to make one or two comments on North Korea.
Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in North Korea is serious.
As you know, the decisions taken by the North Korean Government are serious decisions and I do not believe they are decisions which should only concern the countries of the region.
As you know, we hold meetings and telephone conversations practically every day with the most closely involved countries in the region: South Korea, Japan, China, Russia, the United States, and in the General Affairs Council on Monday the decision was taken, if necessary, to send a European Union mission to North Korea to present our position and also to cooperate in finding a solution to this dramatic problem which, if things carry on as they are, could lead to the existence of nuclear weapons of mass destruction in part of the Korean peninsula.
As you know, at the Copenhagen Summit an agreement was reached on relations between the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance.
We are currently working so that in March we can for the first time in history deploy a peace-keeping force in that Republic.
The work is going well, the issues that have to be tackled with the Atlantic Alliance are making substantial progress, President Trajkovski of Macedonia has now accepted the presence of European forces from March and I believe we will be in a position to do that.
We also want to send a clear message to the countries of the Balkans; our strategy is not to abandon the Balkans.
The deployment of military force in Macedonia would be the second peace-keeping operation taken on by Europe, since, as you know, since 1 January this year, the European police force is deployed in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a replacement for the police force which was there under the flag of the United Nations.
Therefore, in a relatively short space of time, we have been able to implement two peace-keeping operations in an area close to our hearts and close geographically to our capitals and to Brussels.
But I would like to say that we are living through a relatively difficult time and I would go as far as to say that this is perhaps the most difficult time those of us in this parliamentary sitting, during this period of European parliamentary life, have had to live through.
Diplomacy must always be our method. (Applause) Mr President, since at the last session of the Parliament in Strasbourg I was able to spend an hour with the Foreign Affairs Committee discussing North Korea under the benign stewardship of my honourable friend, the Member for Westphalia, and since last week we were able to spend two hours with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy here discussing a wide range of issues, perhaps I could now concentrate on Iraq, bearing in mind the limitations imposed on the competences of the Commission.
I would like to make one remark at the outset: I think it is fair to say that, on the whole, since the Second World War, we have managed to create global institutions and international agreements which have helped make the world a much more prosperous and peaceful place.
Perhaps the greatest failure in trying to create a global rule-book has been our collective failure to establish an adequate regime for controlling and preventing the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons - that terrible arsenal of unimaginable horror.
Everyone knows that, for years, Saddam Hussein has defied the authority of the United Nations over his manufacture, possession and use of weapons of mass destruction.
In May last year, this Parliament adopted a resolution based on a report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne which outlined the clear evidence concerning the brutal and oppressive nature of his regime.
The report illustrated clearly how Saddam normally deals with Iraqi citizens, with his neighbours and with the international community.
After years of defying the authority of the United Nations, posing a threat to the region and to the whole world, he was given a final chance to cooperate in disarming his country by United Nations Security Council resolution 1441.
A team of 260 staff members from 60 countries, of whom 100 are UNMOVIC inspectors, has been working in Iraq since 27 November 2002 under Dr Blix.
I do not want to pronounce on the debate which is being held today in the Security Council.
As I am regularly reminded, the Commission is not a Member State.
Many of the issues we are discussing go to the heart of the debate about national sovereignty, which some appear to think has been solved by the proposal to create a full-time President of the Council.
But that does rather assume that Saddam Hussein will now work with the inspectors.
We have to recognise that if we get this wrong and handle this crisis badly, the consequences could be profoundly serious and very long-lived: on the one hand, we could fatally damage the institutions of global cooperation and governance; on the other, we could make the world a much more dangerous place.
We could weaken partnerships between friends, exacerbate relations with the Islamic world and worsen the prospects for solving crises elsewhere, for example in the Middle East.
I make this point very, very strongly: it will be easier for us to act, should we be required to act, if we can do so with the authority of the United Nations covering our activities.
I think I owe it to all those who work for the European Commission in the front line in providing humanitarian assistance, and to those who work for non-governmental organisations, very often in dangerous circumstances.
If we have to talk in the future about humanitarian activities and about what is described in the jargon as the humanitarian space, then I say strongly to this Parliament that it is far easier and far better to have UN authority covering that humanitarian space than to go ahead without it. (Applause) Earlier I mentioned speaking in the last Parliamentary session on North Korea and I will not repeat all that I said to the Foreign Affairs Committee on that occasion, but I do recognise the seriousness of the situation in North Korea.
I was in Pyongyang with the High Representative and the Swedish Prime Minister almost two years ago.
I am sure this will not be the last occasion on which we debate soberly these difficult issues, soberly but with a passion which I hope will be sometimes constrained in its rhetorical expression by the grave and serious issues that we are discussing. (Applause) Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner Patten, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to decide between war and peace, we must conduct our debate with the greatest seriousness, but also with confidence in ourselves.
That must be our concern; it is that for which we must work, and the United Nations is the framework within which we must do it.
Ladies and gentlemen, even if the use of force in the form of warfare may never be more than the last resort, and though our endeavours must be guided by peace, we have to deal with the facts as they are presented to us.
What we have to deal with in Iraq is a criminal system under a dictator and tyrant alleged to have weapons of mass destruction at his disposal - and that is the problem.
What we demand of the US Government is that, if our American partners and friends have intelligence derived from secret service operations, this must also be laid out to public view in the Security Council, so that we may really be in full possession of the facts.
We want to achieve this through the United Nations, and we want to achieve it by peaceful means! (Applause) Mr President, Mr High Representative, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to say first of all that we are against war: no to war and no to dictators, and that means we must work actively within a multilateral framework to eliminate weapons of mass destruction.
We must work on the basis that peace must be given a chance, but we must not be hasty and of course we must not create situations which may be entirely counter-productive.
Hence our opposition to a preventive attack and our support for negotiations within the framework of international law.
If they were working for eight years, why can they not work for two more months?
And, Mr President, please allow me to refer to an important aspect of the issue on which I would like to hear more clarifications from the representative of the Council and the Vice-President of the Commission.
This is not the way to build a future for humanity, and we must also declare ourselves clearly in favour of not having to face an economic disaster.
Finally, Mr President, we have the right to know whether weapons of mass destruction really exist.
Perhaps I could also ask whether, in the regrettable absence of a coherent EU strategy in the run-up to a possible conflict with Iraq, he would undertake to ensure that the EU starts work now to plan a post-conflict strategy in the region?
When we last debated the situation in Iraq in early September, the world seemed on the brink of a unilateral military adventure led by the United States.
So we Liberals salute the efforts of Colin Powell, Hans Blix, Mohamed Elbaradei and others for reinforcing the multilateral rule of law.
Saddam Hussein is required by UN resolution 1441 to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
Dr Blix raises many disturbing questions in his report.
But with the inspectors due to report again on 14 February, there is little time left to him before the court of the international community has to reach a verdict.
For Liberals, war will always be a last resort; recourse to military action means that the instruments of international governance in which we invest such high hopes have failed.
If Iraq does not seize this final opportunity to cooperate, we must act together through the UN to enforce resolution 1441.
Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, we are on a knife-edge.
In this context of great tension where the stakes are so high, any ambiguous political words or action on the war, but also, where applicable, any absence of initiative against the war, actually constitute an advantage for the most aggressive and unilateralist government the United States has ever known.
Mr Solana, you seem to welcome the common position of the Fifteen, or in any case of the four countries that currently sit on the Security Council.
What did Europe have to say about George Bush's new strategic doctrine, published on 20 September last, which magnifies, and I quote, 'the unequalled strength' of the United States and emphasises, and I quote once again, their determination 'to act alone, if necessary [?] pre-emptively' in order to 'further freedom's triumph'.
What does Europe have to say now in response to the irresponsible statements made by the Secretary-General of the White House last Sunday, implying that the United States would not rule out the use of tactical nuclear weapons in case of conflict in Iraq.
On the other side of the Atlantic, a movement unprecedented since Vietnam is gathering momentum, based on the slogan, and how clear it is: 'No blood for oil'. (Mr Le Pen: It sounds like Europe in 1938!) Calm down!
That is why my group is unanimous, as are my Green and socialist fellow Members, and even Members from other parliamentary groups, in suggesting that a delegation of Members should go to Baghdad from 2 to 6 February.
We should take note of this, but the problem lies elsewhere.
I am indeed saying that I, who, often against my group or other groups, have defended and still defend military intervention in Kosovo and Afghanistan.
I also believe it was right, once again against the majority of my group, to intervene when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, but I believe that today, Saddam Hussein has not been so weak for ten years or so.
Let us take advantage of this situation, however, to contain the problem and avoid making war.
At the same time, let us try to obtain negotiations with the Middle East.
I believe that Ariel Sharon will form a coalition forcing him to negotiate with the Palestinians.
If initially, however, we first sort out Saddam Hussein, perhaps for oil, without having taken and carried out any initiative in the Middle East, we will not be credible and we will not create greater justice in the world.
So, 'make law, not war', change the agenda, give us time, stay there for a year or two.
We will disarm Saddam Hussein, but first of all let us find a solution to the Middle East. (Applause) Speaking time does not stretch to two years, Mr Cohn-Bendit.
Mr President, in our opinion, the essential question now in relation to the Iraqi crisis is how the international community should act in the face of the threat from a dictatorial regime that might or might not have - this is what is being investigated - the capacity to develop or acquire, when they only have access to scarce technical and financial resources, weapons of mass destruction, be they biological or chemical, likely to endanger regional safety and world peace, and potentially to use or supply these to others, particularly terrorists.
This is not the issue, because if it were, we would clearly have to acknowledge that there are also European interests in this area.
In fact, the European Union is already seeing many Iraqi oil transactions taking place in euros and, due to their volume, these transactions contribute considerably to the strength and stability of the European currency as a means of international payment.
To take just one example, we could mention the contracts that Russian oil and gas companies have signed with Iraqi companies, which, according to the press, total 40 billion euros (not dollars).
Mr President, when we criticise a policy, we must come up with alternative proposals and solutions.
We cannot simply oppose options that some consider to be warmongering; we must provide a response that is proportionate to the threats made by the other side, in the shape of someone who, in the past, has shown complete contempt for international law and who is still failing to provide guarantees that he will respect such law now and in future.
Mr President, we make a clear distinction between Iraq's totalitarian regime and its people.
As I said, the Iraqi people have been the main victims of the oligarchy governing them and which uses them to achieve its own ends.
Sadly enough, they cannot count on the unanimous support of the Member States of the European Union in this regard.
That Saddam is again flouting a compulsory Security Council resolution does not spoil the European illusion of Saddam's total disarmament.
Furthermore, Iraq under Saddam remains a permanent potential threat to the entire Middle East, not least on account of her oil reserves.
War is awful, but the consequences of an overly tolerant attitude may in time cause more devastation.
Iraqi aircraft carriers are not manoeuvring along the coasts of New England, nor are Iraqi marines taking up position in Mexico, Canada or Cuba.
Mr Solana wants to disarm Iraq and hunt down the dictators of the world.
The latter point constitutes a huge programme which would oblige the United States to attack many of its allies.
With regard to the fight against international terrorism and pursuing it in the places in which it prospers, the Americans could start by bombing London, which is the main place where this type of thing goes on.
Well, there was a precursor: in 1920, in Kurdistan, in the form of Winston Churchill!
For if you add up the number of operations the European Union has mounted in Bosnia and in Macedonia, and consider the great burden that European forces in Afghanistan are taking upon themselves, as well as the fact that the European Union devotes three times as much of its budget to overseas aid as does the United States of America, all these important factors are, in my view, things of which old Europe can be proud.
At the same time, we should also remember that the achievements that this month has seen - the eastward and southward enlargement of the European Union and the consequent extension of the zone of stability and democracy - play a decisive part in making the world more peaceful.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is my belief that we should now press on with the endeavour that the Council has - God be thanked - set in motion this week, which, for the time being at least, gave us a halfway reasonable position, with the multilateral approach being particularly valued and preferred, and with the attempt being made, within the UN framework, at finding a peaceful solution.
It must, however, be made clear that this must be kept up to the very end.
Dr Blix, for example, has stated that these conditions have not been met, and so it is a good thing that the efforts of many have gained us a breathing space, time that must be used to find a peaceful solution, by which I mean the dismantling of the weapons of mass destruction - insofar as they actually exist - and the disarmament of Iraq, thus enabling the will of the international community, as expressed in international law, to prevail.
Warfare with the aim of averting danger would nullify international law's prohibition of force, promote political instability and, in the final analysis, shatter the foundations of the whole system of an international community of states.' And elsewhere in the same statement: 'Any security strategy committing itself to preventive warfare is in defiance both of Catholic teaching and of international law.' These quotations are from the statement on the Iraq conflict issued, on 20 January of this year, by the Conference of German Bishops.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party really appreciates the efforts you are making, Mr Solana, towards uniting the EU around a single policy.
I dare say that it has never before been so evident that the EU has failed in developing a common foreign and security policy.
It is Iraq's own responsibility, not that of the UN, to prove that there are no weapons of mass destruction in the country.
The question of war or peace lies in Iraq's own hands.
Our view is that the inspectors need more time, a view expressed by many others here.
A unilateral US strike would be extremely unfortunate, not only with regard to its consequences for the region, but also because it would harm transatlantic relations a very, very long way into the future.
When Saddam Hussein used chemical weapons of mass destruction against his own people, the United States was informed of the fact.
If the intention is to disarm Iraq, then that is the role assigned - rightly - to the weapons inspectors.
If the desire is to disarm Iraq, it is a question of supporting the work being done by the weapons inspectors and Hans Blix.
We are seeing a situation where the most powerful country in the world has made clear its determination to wage war against Iraq, with or without United Nations backing and whether or not the weapons inspectors find any weapons of mass destruction.
A pre-emptive attack like this would set a new international precedent that has no basis in the United Nations Charter.
Such a war on Iraq would be immoral, unjustifiable and illegal.
It would make the world a much more dangerous place, causing more resentment and fuelling more terrorism.
The victims, as always, would be the innocent civilians: the hundreds of thousands of men and women and particularly the children who have already suffered years of oppression, hardship and sanctions which have put them under the complete control of Saddam Hussein.
Opposition to this war is growing with every day that passes by groups of people of all ages, from all walks of life, and on 15 February 2003 there are going to be peace demonstrations right around the world.
Those of us elected by the people in Europe can speak in this Parliament on behalf of so many of them who are saying no to war.
I have received many letters from Wales and from other countries asking the European Parliament to do everything that it can to try and stop this war.
It is tragic that if a fraction of the effort made by the United States and the United Kingdom to kindle their support for war had been put into bringing peace in the Middle East, we would live in a much safer and more peaceful world.
Mr President, all statements - from any government or any government representative - seeking to point out differences between positions or diplomatic shortcomings are unwise.
I therefore regret that, instead of working towards a European position or, at least, mediation through a Council meeting, we have split up and established unilateral parameters and positions which do nothing to further either the cause of peace or the development of a common foreign policy, and a common foreign policy is one of the goals towards which the Convention is working.
The United States is not the only guardian of peace and justice, nor is it the only country qualified to declare war should that prove to be necessary and unavoidable in the interests of the common good.
The contrasting statements which have been made in recent days promote the cause of the dictator, Saddam Hussein, rather than the development of what is a problematic peace process.
I would like to thank Mr Berlusconi for the mediation initiative he has undertaken in the last few hours and I hope that everyone will work for peace, just as we must all strive to combat terrorism and dictatorships, even if that means declaring war.
Specifically, it is the risk of war breaking out - which you have mentioned - in 15, 20 or 30 days' time.
What a wonderful success for the European Union: it would appear that the European Union has, at last, achieved agreement on a practical matter, if I am not mistaken, in calling for the inspectors to be given a few more weeks, for them to be given a little more time, a little more money, resources and a little more support.
It is not a question of changing the dictator but of changing the regime.
Mr President, I would like to join several other speakers in expressing satisfaction at the conclusions of the General Affairs Council and praising those people who have been involved in this agreement.
But we naturally hope for more and we therefore ask that work continue in order to achieve a fundamental consensus between the European Union's current four representatives on the United Nations Security Council, in the hope that the four will act, at least, in a coordinated fashion.
But I believe that that consensus demands at least two things: the first is not to publicise unilateral positions but to debate them with our partners and the second is to be loyal - but not copycats - to our natural allies.
Because although it seems obvious, we must remember that in this conflict the person who is threatening world peace, failing to comply with international law and presenting us with the real risk that international terrorists may acquire chemical and bacteriological weapons is Saddam Hussein.
In order to genuinely work for peace, what we have to do is act decisively against violations of international law and against repeated non-compliance with the resolutions of the United Nations.
We believe that the European Union should continue to explore all political and diplomatic avenues in order to resolve the conflict in a peaceful manner, with our allies, as is natural, and also, and in particular, with our friends, the Arab nations.
I would remind you of the unanimous support of the Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council for Resolution 1441, because this is not a religious conflict or a conflict between civilisations - incidentally, it would be good to take this opportunity to relaunch Euro-Mediterranean relations.
The inspectors' reports to the Security Council are conclusive in terms of the non-compliance with Resolution 1441.
But if the Iraqi Government persists in ignoring the requirements demanded of it, not for just a month or two, but since April 1991, when Resolution 687 was adopted, democratic parliaments such as the European Parliament must demand of the executive powers that they meet their responsibilities.
Mr President, 72% of my compatriots are against a war in Iraq.
The international coalition against international terrorism is being undermined.
Whoever tries to oust Saddam through war without convincing evidence, without a UN resolution and therefore without public opinion on their side, is undermining the international rule of law.
Germany, Britain, France and Spain must all listen to their people and not to the fundamentalist Condoleezza Rice and Paul Wolfowitz in George Bush's circle.
We are looking for allies among the American people, the majority of whom are not in favour of a unilateral war.
The dictator Saddam must fear the wrath of the whole world, but this must be aimed at allowing him to cooperate peacefully in finding answers and not in another Bay of Pigs or another Tonkin incident.
The power of a united Security Council must bring Saddam to his knees, and we must take time to do that.
We have the time, Saddam does not.
A war without convincing evidence or a UN resolution would be an admission of weakness and would really play into the hands of the Saddams of this world.
Let us Europeans, via you, Mr Solana, the 15 Member States and the Security Council, build on our European peoples' desire for peace.
Mr President, resolution 1441 is very clear.
It declares in paragraph 1 that Iraq has been and remains in material breach of its obligations under the relevant resolutions including resolution 687 of 1991.
Resolution 687 of 1991 details the United Nations' demands of international monitoring, inspection and verification of weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles.
I turn to weapons of mass destruction.
I have talked in earlier debates of the use of mustard gas in the marshes in 1996 and of the victims I saw.
Despite these breaches, resolution 1441 gives Iraq one final chance, a slender window of opportunity that it seems to be refusing to open.
Resolution 1441 calls us also to witness and to relieve the sufferings of the Iraqi people.
The resolution points to the prolongation of the crisis of humanitarian dimensions as the consequence of Iraq's refusal to implement resolution 687 and others.
Hundreds of thousands, yes, but not the four and a half million that are in the region.
Resolution 687 had an overall objective of restoring international peace and security in the region.
The problem is that the decision to bomb Iraq into a morgue unfit for the dead was taken a long time ago on the Potomac.
But, may I ask, who is demeaning that role and proclaiming every day that, with or without the United Nations, war will be unleashed, probably by 6 March 2003, whatever the Security Council may or may not say?
If this were a criminal case, it would be thrown out of any court in this world.
This Union must reclaim the moral and rational initiative and, first of all, save itself from some of its leaders.
I would simply like to repeat that, in fact, in listening to you, in listening to my fellow Members, I think that one of the starting points of our thinking is the will, which has been widely confirmed by many of our citizens, to reject military intervention, whether or not it is supported by a United Nations resolution, incidentally.
I am nevertheless surprised that Mr Bush suddenly decided that 5 February will be the date on which he will be able to provide proof that he has probably possessed for a long time.
I believe we should, and you are probably doing this, inform the Iraqi opposition by all possible and imaginable means that, of course, Saddam Hussein must respond to the questions of the UN inspectors, but that if changes were to take place in Iraq, we could help them by lifting the embargo, solely, of course, on non-military goods.
I believe this message must be stated more firmly and should be conveyed through the appropriate diplomatic channels.
But many of the people protesting throughout the European Union and throughout the world, and making their voice heard, consider that George W.
Bush is a threat not to his own people but rather to the world at large.
There is no justification for this war in my opinion or in the opinion of the protestors.
The fact that 1.7 million citizens have died as a result of sanctions and bombings since the Gulf War makes one wonder how much a barrel of oil is worth.
Without the agreement of the UN Security Council, this war would be a breach of international law, would have no legitimacy and would be wholly immoral.
More than 80% of European people are against war in Iraq.
I believe that, after Iraq, the Americans will move on to Iran and the other elements of the axis of evil.
Mr President, there is essentially nothing surprising about the situation today.
Of course, we are well aware that this empire needs wars, just like any other empire since the beginning of time: war in Kosovo in 1999, in Afghanistan in 2001, in Iraq today and soon, perhaps, also in Côte-d'Ivoire - where this would supposedly be to defend the country against France.
Mr President, we all know that pacifism has often been the worst enemy of peace: Munich remains in all our memories.
In this context, the instigation of a war, bypassing the Security Council, against a State that now appears to comply with the decisions of the international community would undoubtedly have effects contrary to those desired.
In the current conditions, Mr President, the cure would therefore be worse than the disease.
Mr President, today's debate is probably the most important of all the debates in which I have had the honour of taking part since entering this House.
I believe it concerns the very future of the European Union in its legitimate ambition to take up the position expected of it by the world on the international stage: a Europe allied with the United States to defend our common values, but not necessarily in agreement with all their positions.
We know that, in order to do so, Europe must succeed in speaking with a single voice and we are working continually within this House and within the Convention to achieve this.
Today, we are all in agreement in condemning Saddam Hussein, not only for the risk he represents in relation to international terrorism in the production and distribution of weapons of mass destruction, but also because of the cruelty of the regime he imposes on his people.
I would now turn to all those who think that all the elements are present to authorise the immediate deployment of armed intervention, with no need for a new United Nations Security Council resolution and I would say to them: public opinion does not agree with you on this point since it is demanding proof that this action is unavoidable and a guarantee that it will be carried out in compliance with and in defence of international law.
Colin Powell must provide this proof to the Security Council and a delegation from Parliament must go to New York on Monday to give the matter the serious consideration it deserves.
If this proof is provided, I have no doubt that the United Nations Security Council will not fail to draw the appropriate conclusions.
If the proof, however, is not yet sufficient, then the United Nations inspection mission must be given the time it requests to try, again, to avoid a war.
That is the essence of the proposal for a resolution by our political group and the joint resolution that will be presented tomorrow.
As I believe, together with the majority of my fellow Members, in the importance of this joint resolution, which must show the world that, at least within the European Parliament, the voices of Europe are in harmony, I sincerely hope that, taking account of the amendments we are proposing, this resolution will be able to win over the votes of as broad a majority as possible.
Mr President, High Representative, ladies and gentlemen, I shall, of course, be voting in favour of the resolution that has arisen out of the agreement between various parliamentary groups.
The doctrine of a preventive war to protect the vital interests of the United States is unacceptable.
The Pope has said this and felt obliged to condemn such a doctrine because it contravenes international law and the United Nations Charter.
Furthermore, the 'erratic' policy of the Bush administration - as Bill Clinton called it, and erratic is the least that can be said about it - conceals the monstrous concerns of a new strategy to control oil in the Middle East and has provided cover for the real and unacceptable State terrorism taking place; the terrorism perpetrated by the government of Ariel Sharon.
I am saying this on the day following Ariel Sharon's victory in the Israeli elections, which will, in my opinion, have tragic consequences for Israel.
He clearly wants war at any cost, for reasons of his own and to protect the interests of the United States.
The existence of weapons of mass destruction, an accusation that President Bush is levelling - so far without any convincing evidence - at the dictator and murderer Saddam Hussein seems simply to be a pretext, ignoring Kim Jong-Il, the Korean dictator - who does indeed have atomic weapons - and all the other dictators in the Middle East.
If the European Union were against war with Iraq, it would exercise its veto in the Security Council.
The European Union is therefore merely stalling for time so that it can finish haggling with the USA for control of Iraq's oil fields.
We have a score to settle with him because our thousands of Iraqi comrades were his first victims.
We must express our solidarity with the American people, more and more of whom are raising their voices in protest against this war.
He believed that would show not only the USA and the world at large, but also Iraq, that the weapons inspections are not something thought up by the USA, but the only way to achieve peace; and it would show that the weapons inspectors have strong support, even among us pacifists and opponents of war.
At a video conference yesterday with the chairmen of the political groups, Hans Blix confirmed that he too believes that there is something to be gained from Members of the European Parliament travelling to Iraq and clearly expressing their support for weapons inspections to the Iraqi leaders.
It is easy to sit in safety back home in Europe and pour scorn on those of us who, out of desperation in the face of the risk of a large-scale war, are trying to make at least a small contribution.
There is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is a gangster, but if we are to have an international legal system, he must not be lynched, and we should not impose a collective death penalty, which hits innocent people.
I am sad and concerned to see the United States now taking a path which is likely to lose it the moral leadership of the world, although it will, of course, still have political and military leadership.
Mr President, an overwhelming majority of the European public is opposed to a war in Iraq, and there is at present no occasion for such a war, other than the desire to seize Iraq's oil reserves.
Mr President, in the light of the UN inspectors' report to the UN Security Council on Monday, and ten years of Iraq's deception, evasion and non-compliance with Security Council resolutions, it should be clear to everybody here that we are facing a very grave situation in the Gulf.
As democrats we have a responsibility to explain fully the reasons why it may be necessary to take action in order to uphold the will of the international community, which is that Saddam Hussein should unconditionally disarm.
Sadly I must say that, to date, his own government has not been as united and clear on this issue as I feel we in the United Kingdom are entitled to expect.
A collective failure to confront the gravity of the situation with unity and with determination only gives Saddam Hussein succour; not to be prepared to take action - if he continues to obstruct and to lie - would be an open invitation to any rogue state to do anything it likes and still not face serious consequences.
Clearly, should the situation not improve in the weeks ahead, a second UN resolution may be required.
That is, however, the optimum option ahead of any military engagement in the Gulf.
Having listened to General Morillon, I take the view that the international Community still has the right to act without any such new resolution, as the powers are already vested in earlier UN resolutions.
The position of the French and German Governments in recent days, as well as many of the contributions and demonstrations that have been made in this Chamber this afternoon, clearly show that any prospect of a common foreign and security policy is fallacious.
We must ensure Saddam Hussein understands that his failure to comply with the will of the international community will result in serious consequences.
Equally, we must also ensure that public opinion in the West and elsewhere understands and appreciates why we must be prepared to take action in defence of the international interest.
If the western nations had sent a stronger and more unified message to Saddam Hussein from the start and maintained their resolve, then perhaps we would not have to be contemplating military intervention today.
First of all, the United States of America is a democratic country which twice in the last century was prepared to lay down the lives of its citizens to defend peace, freedom and democracy in Europe.
Paragraph 1 states that Iraq is in material breach of its obligations under UN resolutions.
Whatever is the case, the UN has to decide what it means by Paragraph 13 and by serious consequences.
But we must be clear that, if a second resolution is forthcoming from the UN, we must all support it because that is what we have stated very clearly in our resolutions in this Parliament.
The US Government, taking advantage of the terrorist acts of 11 September, is now imposing State terrorism on the entire world with the aim of establishing its economic and military domination everywhere.
We should not forget that Pinochet and Bin Laden were agents recruited and trained by the CIA, that Israel has never applied a single UN resolution and that fortunately, however, nobody is considering bombing Israel.
This war smells of oil, and the majority in this House knows it.
Without providing any support for Saddam Hussein's dictatorship, it is our duty to pass on the mass rejection of the people which will be expressed in particular in all the capital cities on 15 February in response to the Porto Alegre forum.
In the United Kingdom, over 160 000 people have signed a petition against war organised by a national newspaper, the Daily Mirror.
If this conflict is really about getting rid of weapons of mass destruction, there are many other routes we can take.
I share the anti-war sentiments, but it is precisely in order to avoid war that the international community must identify with the United Nations Organisation and its decisions, thus giving authority to the role of the United Nations.
The decisions taken by the UN thus far have been very clear, Mr President, starting with the message sent to Saddam Hussein calling for the disarmament of all weapons of mass destruction.
If he genuinely wants to prevent war, he must tell the inspectors the truth.
I will cite once again the report submitted to the Security Council in relation to chemical bombs: there is a discrepancy of 6 500 bombs.
I repeat: 6 500 chemical bombs remain unaccounted for.
Then Iraq has declared that it produced about 8 500 litres of anthrax, which it states it unilaterally destroyed in the summer of 1991.
Saddam Hussein would use their mission to claim that Europe is divided and that he has some supporters in our continent.
Whether we choose war or peace now depends first and foremost on the decisions Saddam Hussein makes, and Europe must ensure that the Iraqi regime cooperates with the inspectors.
The Union's document, approved by the Foreign Affairs Ministers the other day, is evidence that divisions can be avoided in our continent, divisions which Saddam Hussein could exploit to gain time and to create further setbacks for the United Nations.
The Old Continent can do a great deal to achieve peace, and this is why the initiatives being taken by the Italian Government at this time deserve our close attention and support too.
The active quest for peace must not, however, Mr President, cause us to forget that we are all committed to safeguarding the values of freedom, tolerance and respect for human dignity, values which suffered attack on September 11.
However, to lend credibility to the desire - which you have rightly described as the desire of the majority of the European citizens - to both avoid war and be without dictators, I believe that Europe must have more confidence in itself and be more coherent and, above all, more united.
As emphasised by the representatives of many countries at the world parliamentary forum in Porto Alegre, we must call on our leaders to firmly oppose the war and reject the concept of preventive war contained in the new strategic doctrine of the Bush administration.
What is particularly important are all actions demonstrating solidarity with the Iraqi people, such as visits to Iraq by delegations of Members of the European Parliament and the public demonstrations against the war and to defend peace planned for 15 February.
Opposition to the war in Iraq is equally crucial in order to put an end to the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories and to the aggression by Ariel Sharon's government and to attempt to achieve, by means of dialogue, a fair and lasting peace.
Our citizens want peace, so let us all work to make this possible, repeatedly expressing our protests, indignation and rejection with regard to the imminence of a new war against Iraq.
Faced with this crisis, none of the European Union's Member States can remain indifferent, and it should not be necessary to remind you, in this context, that the source and origin of this crisis is to be found in Iraq and not in the USA.
It is not through the USA's desire to unleash war on that part of the world that this crisis has come about, but because a despot remains in power in Iraq, and in possession of dangerous weapons of mass destruction, having already, in the past, demonstrated that he does not shrink from using them.
Arguments of that sort are of no use to anyone except Saddam Hussein, whose aim is to split European and American public opinion in order to win time and secure his political survival.
At the end of the day, too, the way in which the European Union handles this challenge will be crucial to the credibility of the plans for a common foreign and security policy, which are so much on our lips.
This applies not only to the Council's position on Iraq, but also, of course, to Parliament, and so I fully endorse the joint resolution that General Morillon has negotiated on behalf of our group.
We Austrians are concerned about the way Iraq is stockpiling such weapons as anthrax, and we therefore support all the political and diplomatic efforts at using channels that will bring a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
What that means for us in practical terms is that no Austrian troops will take part in hostilities, but that we will instead - in accordance with Austrian tradition - participate in maintaining peace.
Let me put another question.
If there were evidence that Saddam Hussein possesses weapons of mass destruction, the United States of America would be under an obligation to produce such evidence at once and supply it to the weapons inspectors.
I fear that you will have to answer them with 'yes', and that is why my government is right to say that what this region needs is more peace, rather than war, of which it has already had enough. (Applause) Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner Patten, I am sure we are all aware of the responsibility that the world, including the European Union, has towards all peoples to ensure development, progress and peace.
We are all for peace, we are all against war, we are all against weapons of mass destruction.
I am one of those who consider that the role of the UN must be strengthened and that international policing measures must be decided by the United Nations, despite the need for far-reaching UN reform.
However, I am also convinced that we must leave behind the Yalta approach once and for all and that debates on the dangerous situations threatening the world must include all the States which have a significant role to play in the world.
The situation is responding perfectly to the US treatment, and armed conflict may well be avoided, if Iraq creates the necessary conditions for peace.
Europe has therefore been dependent on the US thus far and must find its own role in the world, not just through the creation of a rapid reaction force but, above all, through effective coordination of foreign policy.
To this end, I believe that we must invite Ariel Sharon, who has now been placed in a strong position by his electorate, to attend an international conference on the Middle East, in order to try and find a peaceful solution for all the regions which need, first and foremost, to abandon the culture of hate and encourage mutual respect and recovery of the States.
Europe's current role, then, is important and will become even more so if we succeed in influencing North America as well as Russia with Western culture, so that it will commit to respect for freedom and, at the same time, to upholding the principle of solidarity.
This old lady would say: choose security through international law, bow to the decisions of the UN, agree to another UN meeting, which we must demand, for another resolution.
It must be said that our fellow citizens can detect a strong smell of oil in this matter.
In any case, there is no clear reason to give up, whether with regard to the meeting or the right of veto.
In the next few days, the States of the European Union therefore have a pressing duty to prevent unilateral military action in defiance of international law.
The socialists cannot express better than the bishops what they think of the war cries from the Washington hawks.
Mr President, the international political climate is stormy, to say the least.
We are basically in the aftermath of a crisis which started back in 1979 with the Iran-Iraq war, continued with Kuwait, and is still going on today.
I would like to welcome the efforts of the Greek Presidency to resolve the situation we find ourselves in.
The European Parliament will perhaps adopt a common resolution tomorrow on Iraq, a resolution which I support.
Although defence and security are clearly intergovernmental matters, I believe that world peace and stability cannot be restricted to one pillar.
And we, in this Parliament, in order to safeguard European cohesion and our trans-Atlantic relations, vacillate and pay a high price, that of silence, and at times hypocrisy, since we are pretending to believe certain things.
We are pretending to believe that Iraq is a threat to the world, when actually it is a country on its knees.
We are pretending to believe that only that country has weapons of mass destruction, when the entire region is a powder keg.
We are also pretending to believe that democracy can be built by force on a site littered with mines and bombs.
And we are pretending to believe that we will never be accomplices in a massacre and that the UN, that arbiter of international law, will play an impartial role and is not subject to horrendous pressures.
Very great humanitarian efforts would be needed for Iraq's 23 million people.
The war with Iraq is not about Saddam Hussein's dictatorship or breaches of UN resolutions.
If that were the case, the USA, the UN and the EU would be involved in many wars all over the world: for example, in Saudi Arabia and Israel, to name but a few.
What it is really about is power over oil and power in the region.
The United Nations Charter permits the use of force for the preservation of peace only as a last resort, when all other options have been exhausted.
Only the Security Council can make decisions on this.
Neither the United Nations Charter nor international law permits the use of force for preventive purposes, however.
There is no justification for Saddam Hussein's devastating politics.
Give the inspectors a decent amount of time, and use the time for cooperation between the EU, the Arab countries, Russia and the UN to find a peaceful solution.
The United Nations has an opportunity - as is made clear by the inspectors who have reported to it this week - to peacefully disarm Saddam Hussein if they are given enough time and providing Saddam Hussein pro-actively cooperates with them.
We are talking about giving time to the inspectors; we are not talking about allowing Saddam Hussein to maintain - assuming he has them - weapons of mass destruction.
No evidence has been found which establishes that Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction - the contrary in fact.
We must give the inspectors more time.
Nevertheless, I believe we should be pleased to see the continuous growth within the Member States of a movement rejecting war, and positions such as that of General Schwarzkopf who, taking the approach of Erasmus, has just accused the Minister for war, Rumsfeld, of undervaluing the army and of relishing the idea of going to war, or such as that of the Democrat Senator Joseph Biden, who has accused Bush of promoting the greatest wave of anti-Americanism for 30 years.
Mr President, if the European governments are unable to arrive at a common position - and the Greek Presidency's painstaking efforts here do it credit - then we must raise a loud, clear, united voice in the European Union against this war for oil and against unilateral intervention which flies in the face of international law, the resolutions passed by the UN and global public opinion.
Yes, Mr Solana, we must give the UN inspectors what they are asking for: time, money, resources and information.
Unfortunately, war and violence are your preserve, the preserve of the men who rule in the decision-making centres, while the victims of war are mainly women and children.
Mr President, I have the justifiable suspicion that with regard to this Iraq crisis, Prime Minister Aznar has made secret commitments of a military nature to the Bush administration.
Are these televised comments by Aznar in which he states that he will back Bush unconditionally in a unilateral attack loyal?
Representatives of the Council and the Commission, has Prime Minister Aznar informed you of his unconditional unilateral support for Bush?
Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the many honourable Members who have accompanied me during this sitting for their tenacity and perseverance.
Firstly, there can be no doubt that this is a difficult debate.
But I would like to say that we must not indulge in a sort of pessimism about the European Union's inability to reach common positions.
We are talking about such serious issues as war and peace.
And it is therefore natural that so many Members of Parliament have spoken in very different ways and that the governments have also at times said so many differing things.
Hence the first consequence; it will be very difficult to take a decision on war and peace, on life and death, by means of a vote on one particular day.
Peace and war, life and death, belong to the States and one State will never be prepared to allow another State to impose on it the obligation to go to war or, conversely, to impose that obligation to go to war on another.
There was pressure, very significant pressure from many countries, the majority of countries of the European Union.
And in September of that year the Iraq dossier, which was kept outside the United Nations Security Council, outside the framework of the United Nations, was brought to the United Nations.
And for seven long weeks Resolution 1441 was debated.
All of this action was unquestionably led by European countries in order to achieve a unanimously approved Resolution.
It has been a long time since a resolution of such importance has been approved unanimously, and countries such as Syria, for example, and a few days later, as I said at the beginning, the Arab League, the Arab countries, unanimously supported the content of Resolution 1441.
I do not believe that the Europeans are the only people responsible for Resolution 1441, but it would be pessimistic for us not to say that we have been very instrumental in the existence of Resolution 1441.
They were kind enough to speak with the President of the European Parliament yesterday by videoconference.
So, the first consequence we have in our hands, the first report, is a report which does not satisfy us in terms of the cooperation between Saddam Hussein and his regime and the inspectors.
The United Nations Security Council is still, therefore, the centre of gravity of the debate, and I believe that the countries of Europe have had a hand in this, not in every respect, but to a very considerable extent.
On the 14 February there will be a second report from the inspectors and we will see how the situation is developing.
As the honourable Members may imagine, I am in constant contact with many people, with many important countries in the Security Council, and with non-European countries and non-members of the Security Council.
The honourable Members will remember, because you follow this issue as closely as I do, that a few days ago in Ankara there was an important meeting of the most significant Arab countries.
We will see, but we have a political dynamic which nobody would have expected a few months ago.
We must therefore continue working, continue cooperating in this way with the other members of the Security Council, we must continue working with the other countries and amongst ourselves so that, at the end of this journey, we may have, as I said at the beginning, a solution to this extremely serious conflict.
Because there is absolutely no doubt that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is going to be the great issue which we Europeans are going to have to deal with in the coming years and we will have to genuinely take on board the importance of this issue.
In any event, for my part, I will always be prepared to appear before this Parliament, however many Members are in attendance, in order to try to move forward and overcome the difficulties facing all of us at this historic moment for good or for bad.
I have received six motions for resolutions The European Parliament must speak out clearly against war as a means of disarming Iraq, because the vast majority of our citizens is against it.
Human rights remain a dead letter in other countries as well; other countries also have weapons of mass destruction - Iran, Pakistan, North Korea and India for example.
There are many other problems waiting to be resolved, such as the Palestine issue, the Middle East, Kashmir and so on.
The oil in Iraq changes nothing.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the withdrawal of North Korea from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The entire international community must make every possible effort to stop any action which will give the peninsular a nuclear capability, to restore the sunshine policy between North and South Korea and to ensure that North Korea continues to integrate smoothly into the international community.
The European Union is ready and waiting to offer its good services to support the negotiations currently under way.
However, it is not prepared to allow anyone to challenge the international framework for the control and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Our aim is to resolve the problem as quickly as possible, which is why yesterday's General Affairs Council discussed recent developments in North Korea and international efforts to alleviate the situation and find a solution, and what preconditions would attach to its sending a high-level Union mission to Pyongyang.
Yesterday's meeting agreed in principle that a mission was a good idea, with almost everyone emphasising the importance of involving North Korea in the whole procedure at the highest possible level, including ?im Jong-il personally.
A policy of persuasion, accompanied by measures to respond to North Korea's needs and concerns and find a way of allowing it to back down without losing face, will be the most effective way forward.
For its part, North Korea must understand that the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the International Atomic Energy Agency's Safeguards Agreement serve the wider interests of every country and every nation and must be respected by one and all.
Developing peaceful and open mutually beneficial cooperative relations with every country in the world is, I think, a much more effective policy and this is the approach adopted by the European Union, which has a history of good relations with North Korea.
We again call on North Korea from this tribune to reconsider its decision and honour all its obligations under its international commitments.
North Korea, traditionally isolated from just about every other country and consistently hostile to South Korea, had for some years been in very severe economic difficulties and eventually Pyongyang was forced to call upon the international community for assistance with food and medical supplies and for help in tackling the effects of a series of disastrous floods.
The international community responded and, in the wake of that, the mood of the regime in Pyongyang seemed to soften, raising the prospect of some change, however slow.
The summit meeting in Pyongyang in 2000 between President Kim Dae-jung and North Korea's Chairman Kim Jong-il encouraged hopes of further constructive developments.
Political level contact between North Korea and South Korea continued, as did family reunions and business contacts, but the promised second summit did not take place.
With the visit of Prime Minster Koizumi to Pyongyang last August, Japan also took a major step forward in opening up dialogue about normalising relations, nearly sixty years after the end of the Japanese occupation of Korea.
But the admission by Chairman Kim Jong-il that over the years Japanese citizens had been kidnapped and that, tragically, some of the abducted people had died in North Korea understandably caused emotional reactions in Japan.
The initial determination of the Bush administration not to follow the policies of President Clinton in relations with North Korea fed Pyongyang's suspicions that the United States was implacably hostile.
That reality is understood by all our partners and, of course, not least, the United States.
Clearly, if the situation worsens, there are likely to be adverse economic effects on the global economy including the European Union.
But it is also clear that the European Union is not a major participant in the affairs of that region.
This is assisted and delivered through the World Food Programme, as much of our humanitarian food assistance has been over the years, and the conditions for doing this are very clearly spelt out in a way that creates very tight monitoring procedures.
In the meantime, we hope for the continued and valued support of Parliament in our efforts to foster temperate and constructive attitudes on all sides.
Mr President, I have been the co-author of two resolutions in quick succession with Jas Gawronski and Jacques Santer, who are experts on this very isolated country.
Already many are suspicious of the genuineness of Pakistan's commitments in its war against terrorism and the disappearance of the records of Pakistan's relations with North Korea is worrying.
The international community must close ranks against this rogue state and stop it becoming a nuclear proliferator if it is not one already, not only because of the threat posed to the South and the 37 000 US troops stationed there, but also the 40 million civilian South Korean population.
The DPRK cannot pursue a policy of ignoring the collective will of the United Nations and must cease its nuclear proliferation immediately.
Mr President, while the entire world is currently focussed on Iraq and the Chamber was full when we talked about it just now, it is the case that the attitude of North Korea is perhaps more worrying and that the danger it poses is very real.
The first point relates to Pakistan's role in this issue.
Secondly, I welcome the decision of the Council and the Commission to also view the North Korean problem from a humanitarian perspective.
From a humanitarian perspective without cutting humanitarian aid, but also trying to find other solutions to the problem of energy, which is a very serious problem in North Korea.
Finally, the point which is probably closest to our hearts, which is dialogue.
We believe it is urgent that we initiate dialogue between the seven major powers, which are the European Union, the United States, Japan, Russia, China, North Korea and South Korea, on economic, security and peace issues.
Mr President, only two weeks ago North Korea announced its withdrawal from the Non-Proliferation Treaty, to which it had been a party for 17 years.
This decision was made in a climate of international uncertainty, especially when weapons of mass destruction are concerned.
The threat of proliferation of nuclear weapons is grave and we are currently balancing on the brink of war in Iraq because of weapons of mass destruction in rogue states.
Neighbours in far-off countries alike have an interest in making North Korea change its mind.
Besides displaying a lack of respect for international security, the North Korean decision also shows complete disregard for the well-being of an already impoverished population.
Human suffering in North Korea is immense.
In the past eight years, more than two million people have starved to death in North Korea.
China, Japan and South Korea along with the United Nations, the EU and the United States should be active in seeking a solution.
The recent resumption of talks between North and South Korea demonstrates that dialogue is possible.
Some groups here have worked together to table a joint resolution expressing a reaction to the current situation in North Korea.
North Korea must change its decision for the sake of regional and international stability as well as its own people.
Our joint resolution sends out a clear signal from the vast majority in the Parliament that condemns the current situation and state of affairs in North Korea, but at the same time suggests a course of action which, given the right amount of commitment, could remedy the problem.
These unwise words evidently caused North Korea to believe they were on George Bush's hit list.
This is potentially a much more serious conflict than that in Iraq.
Already last October, the government of North Korea was reportedly running a secret uranium enrichment programme in blatant violation of the KEDO Agreement.
In December, North Korea cancelled its membership of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, expelled the International Atomic Energy Authority weapons inspectors and announced that it would reactivate a nuclear reactor and reprocessing plant producing weapons grade material.
I believe, however, that KEDO was ill designed from the start, neither addressing North Korea's immediate energy needs, nor delivering technology adaptable to the country's infrastructure.
The developments on the uranium enrichment programme led the European Parliament in October last year to freeze the EUR 20 million EU contributions to KEDO for 2003, and the US administration to stop its oil supplies to North Korea under the KEDO Agreement.
It is now inconceivable that Commissioner Patten, as he himself has acknowledged, could come to the European Parliament and request money from the EU funds for nuclear transfers.
I would ask the Commission to respond to this point in particular, and to ensure that the money be spent on a proposal to provide clean energy from North Korea's electricity plants, by reconstructing its ancient conventional energy plants so as to make them efficient, by contributing to the proposed gas pipeline from Irkutsk as well as developing the great potential in Korea for wind and solar energy, bio-mass and geothermics.
The Security Council is the organ designated to act in this case.
The first objective of the EU delegation to Pyongyang must therefore be to bring about discussions with the UN rather than the US.
Mr President, I am pleased to see that both the countries of the European Union and Parliament have achieved a common position on the subject of Korea with less difficulty than they had with regard to Iraq.
Clearly, there can be no possibility of military action to destroy nuclear plant in Korea.
In his account of the facts with which we who are concerned with these issues are already quite familiar, the Commissioner mentioned a possible US attack.
I believe that this is the opinion even of those Members who were here just now but have just left the House holding up placards saying 'No to war', not realising that, in doing so, they are making war more likely.
Every initiative which supports Saddam Hussein's cause makes him more stubborn and less inclined to bow before our requests and pressure.
Firstly, we must not fall into the trap laid by Pyongyang, which is trying to create a division between the United States and South Korea, an attempt which is furthered by the fact that north-south relations have not been very good for some time, to the extent that the outgoing President was moved to describe Kim Jong-Il as a very astute man whereas, judging from what he has done with his country and the way his people, the population live, one might be induced to think the opposite.
Secondly, we must not give other countries, other potential Kim Jong-Il-style dictators - and they do exist - the impression that one only has to violate the non-proliferation treaties in order to be rewarded with support and assistance from the United States.
Firstly, we cannot tolerate the existence of a nuclear weapons programme in that country.
Secondly, any agreement must lay down exceedingly rigid, pervasive control measures to prevent North Korea from taking us for a ride once again.
On this basis, the conference we propose in our joint motion for a resolution would be extremely useful as a European Union initiative.
Mr President, in my capacity as chairman of the ad hoc delegation on North Korea, I am naturally shocked by the attitude of North Korea, which, having subscribed to the sunshine policy inspired by President Kim Dae Jung and supported by the European Union, has reneged on its international commitments by withdrawing from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and expelling the inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency.
On the other hand, we recall that our policy has always been, and still is, aimed essentially at the promotion of peace, stability and economic development in the region.
If these objectives are to be shared by North Korea, we strongly urge the parties to engage in constructive dialogue.
In order to fulfil the conditions for this dialogue, I believe it is essential that North Korea state that it is prepared to entirely respect its obligations in accordance with the international treaties and that it is returning to the course it itself traced two years ago.
I entirely agree with the proposals of the Council and the Commission aimed at continuing humanitarian aid and providing the technical assistance necessary for the operation of coal mines in order to provide that country with the energy it so cruelly lacks.
I have received six motions for resolutions The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the 59th UNHCR meeting to take place in Geneva from 17 March 2003 to 25 April 2003.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have this opportunity to report to you on how the Community is preparing for the forthcoming meeting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
One of the aims of the Greek Presidency is to step up the human rights dialogue between the European Parliament and the Council.
On 25 June 2001, the Council reaffirmed its commitment to promoting the European human rights policy and the policy of democratisation in third countries and issued a series of basic principles designed to bring about a more creditable, coherent, consistent human rights and democratisation policy.
The clearer and more unequivocal our absolute respect for human rights inside the Union, the more creditable and persuasive our foreign policy on these issues will be, and we shall be able to demand more effectively that all members of the international community abide, if not by all, then at least by the basic principles and values which give man and society their dignity.
Respect for these principles must inform all aspects of the Union's foreign policy, even if there is an economic or political price to pay.
Ladies and gentlemen, before detailing the preparations we are making for the meeting in Geneva, I should like briefly to recount the results of last year's meeting, to give you an idea of the challenges facing us in March and April.
European motions on Iran, Chechnya and Zimbabwe were thrown out for the first time in the Commission's history.
I should point out that, apart from the return of the United States, the composition of the Commission is more or less the same as last year.
This became clear during last year's elections in the Commission, when the calming and stabilising role of the European Union demonstrated the value of a sober but pragmatic European approach, defusing the tension and circumventing a painful and dangerous impasse.
Nor must we forget that this situation may be complicated in the immediate future by the prospect of unilateral intervention in Iraq, the worsening situation in the Middle East and the possible rekindling of terrorism, fed by conflicting arguments from all the forces involved as they try to pass the buck from one side to the other.
The COHOM working group organised its first two-day meeting on preparations for the work of the Commission two weeks ago.
With the help of senior officials, COHOM has already managed to identify which countries are willing to agree on an action package.
The COHOM working group will decide on as many issues as possible at its meeting on 5 February and any particularly thorny issues outstanding will be discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and, where necessary, referred to the Council.
I can, however, report that the working group has already provisionally agreed that the Union will vote in favour of item 9 on the agenda on the five countries of Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq, Myanmar and the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories.
The Union's traditional report on the human rights situation in various parts of the world will cover the countries which give cause for concern.
Finally, supporting declarations are also being prepared on issues which are major priorities in the European Union, such as racism, sexual discrimination and xenophobia, women's rights, modern forms of slavery and supporting and encouraging all types of personal and collective initiatives to protect human rights.
These are just a few examples but I think I have given you an idea of the European Union's commitments and expectations for the forthcoming meeting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
In order to protect the human rights of immigrants and refugees, the presidency considers that, apart from third pillar issues which have to do with this question, we need to do something about the social rights of these people inside the Union.
Finally, I must point out, especially as things stand today, that the Union needs to strike the right balance between security and the unobstructed exercise of people's rights, between cooperation and pressure, between control and protection, between the demands of others and what applies to our members.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to respond to Parliament's resolutions on the forthcoming session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and the clear indication of Parliament's country and thematic priorities for that session.
Eleanor Roosevelt was unanimously selected as the first chairman of the UN Commission on Human Rights in 1946, which was charged with the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The secret vote called at the behest of the United States led to a common abstention by seven EU Member States in the Commission on Human Rights.
Those results prompted a bout of soul-searching as to how the EU could improve the prospects for its country and thematic resolutions.
The EU has rightly defended the need for country resolutions alongside thematic resolutions.
This constructive system is not embraced by the vast majority of the international community, with over 150 states declining to issue a standing invitation to the UN special mechanisms.
It is undoubtedly a difficult process to determine which countries should be subject to EU action in the Commission on Human Rights.
Discussions are set to continue at the COHOM meeting on 5 February 2003.
The European Parliament's resolution on priorities for the Commission on Human Rights will constitute an important contribution to that debate, as will the presentation of priorities by NGOs at the forthcoming session of the Human Rights Contact Group.
Clearly, the EU's approach to Iran and China at the Commission on Human Rights will attract a great deal of interest.
As the EU guidelines on human rights dialogues make clear, and as we have made fully apparent to the Iranian government, such dialogues do not in any way preclude the tabling of resolutions in international human rights fora.
That decision must be made on the basis of our assessment of the human rights situation on the ground.
At the same time, however, the EU's decision on a resolution cannot be divorced from an assessment of the prospects for progress within the framework of the dialogue.
For the first round of dialogue with Iran, the initial assessment is cautiously positive.
It is important for the EU and the United States to pursue their common interests in advancing human rights in the often hostile climate at the Commission on Human Rights.
The next round of consultations is scheduled for 6 February 2003.
Finally, I welcome the European Parliament's intention to send a delegation to the 59th Commission on Human Rights following last year's successful visit, which provided the opportunity for productive exchanges between the EU Heads of Mission and the Commission's delegation in Geneva.
Mr President, to save time, could you perhaps only give the floor to people who are present in the room during the introductions and who are also willing to listen to the answer.
You might then have fewer problems with the speaking time, and this auditorium would also be better populated; I am embarrassed on behalf of my fellow MEPs because they are not here to listen to the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner.
Parliament and the public have a right to know what the Council and the Commission did at the UNHCR meeting, and why they did it.
Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome the statements from the previous speaker on a debriefing from the Council and the Commission following the UN hearing.
We recognise the importance of the UN Commission as a forum to effect real change, but we feel that the Council, Parliament and the Commission must act together if we are to achieve our real aims.
The case of the Cairo 52 in Egypt is still unresolved after more than 18 months, and again more people have been arrested for alleged homosexuality.
The complaints of the three British men, Nesbitt, Nawaz and Pankhurst, who have made serious allegations of abuse, have yet to be investigated.
Mr President, do the violators of human rights have much to fear and the victims much to expect from the UN Human Rights Commission?
The most important forum in the world is once again missing the mark by a mile: it is not the severity of the violations that is the deciding factor but the ability to mobilise political support.
Some countries also manage to repeatedly avoid censure; this produces a distorted picture of the human rights situation in the world and tarnishes the legitimacy of the Commission.
The European Union can play a greater role in the UN Commission if it is properly prepared, prepared in time, speaks with one voice and is persistent and courageous - in short, if it operates differently from the way it operated last year.
It is very important to my group that the European Union makes efforts particularly in respect of resolutions on slavery, immunity from punishment, torture, brutal interpretations of Sharia, discrimination against women, freedom of religion, the situation of indigenous peoples and certainly the protection of human rights activists as well.
We place great importance on the resolutions on the 17 countries in which Iraq, Iran, Burma, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, China, Russia and Colombia are in particular named.
Selection is inevitable, but that certainly does not mean that all countries that have not been named will get off scot-free.
I would also like to draw particular attention to the renewal of the mandate of the special rapporteur for Iran, the strengthening of the position of the High Commissioner in Colombia and the approval of special rapporteurs in Chechnya.
The European Union must integrate the outcomes of Geneva into its policy and resume the political dialogue with the countries concerned.
As the human rights rapporteur for this Parliament for this year I say: let the European Union do everything it can to restore the authority of this UN Human Rights Commission.
Mr President, I am a critical person, and I am very sad to have become afflicted in this period with pessimism regarding the future of our world too.
In this sense, governments are often indifferent towards the work of UNHCR and their recommendations go unheeded.
Three hundred and fifty Palestinian children and 80 Israeli children have been killed in the last two years, innocent victims of our failure to act.
We have the means to do so but we often use two different sets of checks and balances: it is our alliances, not our values, which carry most weight.
Europe is founded on the principles of democracy and the rule of law.
The resolution on which we are going to vote outlines effective, valuable priorities and commitments - such as the operation of the International Criminal Court, human rights monitoring in Iran and the cooperation of the institutions with associations and NGOs from civil society - which will further education and respect in the field of human rights and democracy.
There once again we will ponder whether we are able or unable to defend, in a way that is consistent, democracy, the rule of law, and human rights in a world in which the human rights situation has got significantly worse and the general political climate is becoming worryingly brutalised.
We will no longer appear credible and we, old Europe, will be left without that moral authority we need so much.
Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the Council and the Commission to a number of issues, a number of dossiers which have received wide coverage in the international press but which we appear to have overlooked somewhat in our political activities.
I am dumbfounded by the debate in which our European authorities appear to be bogged down, as if there were any question of allowing the head of this bloodthirsty regime which is brutally riding roughshod over human rights to take part in the France-Africa Summit in Paris in February or the EU-Africa Summit due to take place in Lisbon in April.
I believe that the Council and the Commission must act resolutely, and I feel that a committee whose very raison d'être is to safeguard human rights must not overlook repeated brutal incidents ? (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Lobsang Dhondup, a Tibetan, was executed three days ago, despite all the appeals made by world public opinion and the human rights organisations, and the approaches of ambassadors of EU Member States notwithstanding.
Nor did our debate in this House, and the resolution we adopted unanimously on 19 December 2002, have any effect.
On 26 January 2003, the People's Court in Chengdu confirmed the death sentences that had been passed on Lobsang Dhondup and on the Buddhist lama Tenzin Delek.
It will also be on the agenda of the human rights conversations between Germany and China.
It is a disaster; while China is trying to cut a credible figure on the world stage, the most basic conditions of the defence of human rights are being disregarded.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and as President of this Parliament's Intergroup on Tibet, I call upon the Council, the Commission and the Member States to intervene without delay and prevent the death sentence with which Tenzin Delek has been threatened from being carried out.
This appalling event can leave us in no doubt that China's violations of fundamental rights should be on the agenda of the Human Rights Convention in Geneva, and the European Union must take the lead in this.
We call upon the European Union, first and foremost, to fight to ensure that there are no off-limits zones in the protection of human rights.
One such off-limits zone could be the fight against terrorism, which should be based firmly on respect for international humanitarian law.
Another free zone could be the fact that the Rome Treaty establishing the International Criminal Court continues to be treated by some countries, particularly the United States, as extremely insignificant.
The authority and effectiveness of this Treaty are in danger of being increasingly diminished by the attitude of the United States and its decision to adopt bilateral agreements with some countries.
Lastly, Mr President, I would like us to go to Geneva with a conviction which I hope we all share - that the first and highest form of defence of human rights is to avoid the destruction, ignominy and violence of war.
And it would be an important achievement if that were to happen under the Greek Presidency.
And while we are on the subject of crossed swords between the European Union and the United States, I think it is perhaps about time we awarded a Sakharov prize to an American in 2003, the outgoing governor of Illinois, who has pardoned 150 people on death row.
could demand reports on countries that imprison people for crimes that they have not committed?
We must give all of our support to the proper functioning of this Commission so that it can fully play its role.
The debate is also the opportunity to highlight the rights of indigenous peoples as, when too many States are violently breaching fundamental rights, what can be said about the rights of indigenous peoples in the absence of practically any information about their definition or their legal guarantees?
We must strongly support the UN's initiative to have a permanent forum on these issues in order to raise awareness and promote the cause of indigenous peoples.
Also, ladies and gentlemen, it would be to the European Parliament's credit if it, for its part, were to set up the European Parliament indigenous peoples' delegation that was decided upon when a resolution was adopted in 1992.
Mr President, although Member State governments have strongly criticised human rights abuses, regrettably they adopt a different approach in relation to larger countries like China and Pakistan, where there are huge trading and geopolitical interests at stake.
Our inconsistency is a form of political prostitution and undermines our moral authority in this field.
I welcome this joint resolution and, as mentioned in paragraph 16, the EU Presidency should support further resolutions on a number of countries.
With regard to China, the strike hard campaign continues to be extremely worrying, having dramatically increased the number of executions in China, often carried out in reliance on insufficient evidence in summary trials.
Pro-democracy campaigners and political activists are often detained without charge and, in some cases, charged with inciting subversion.
It is essential that the Presidency make human rights a core part of all dialogue with China.
But I also condemn the state terrorism inflicted on the ordinary people of Palestine by Israel.
With regard to Iran, EU leaders had expressed the hope that engaging Iran in political dialogue would strengthen reformist elements and improve human rights.
The protection and promotion of human rights is one of the fundamental principles of the EU.
I think they will be most useful to the Council, as will the references made to a number of countries and regions such as China, the Middle East and Zimbabwe, which not only reflect the Council's position, they also reflect the action being taken by the Council and the Commission on a whole series of issues.
We are not sparing any effort to persuade everyone we can of the need to implement human rights.
Of course, I also agree with many of the other comments made but there is too little time to go into them, such as turning our attention to the problems in Africa.
We take a keen interest in the question of the death penalty everywhere.
Mr President, I have noted that the issue of the death penalty has been raised by almost every speaker.
In response to Mr Fava's remark - that by defending human rights we can avoid or prevent terrorism - I would also say that I only wish that were true.
The world is more evil than that.
The next item is a continuation of the debate on the statements by the Council and the Commission on illegal exploitation of the wealth of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before commenting on the question of the exploitation of the wealth of the Congo, I should like to say that, by reason of my position, and I speak here for the presidency of the Council, I am obliged to respect the presence and the modus operandi of the European Parliament and I shall do just that.
Now on the question of the illegal exploitation of the wealth of the Congo, I have this to say: the international community has started to evince a keen interest in the illegal exploitation of natural resources in Africa over recent years, especially where they are used to fund long-term, catastrophic armed conflicts.
The chairman of the United Nations Security Council made a statement in June 2000 calling on the Secretary-General of the United Nations to set up a committee of experts to investigate the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
At the same time, again according to the committee's findings, Rwanda is funding its massive military budget mainly from resources taken from the Congo, occasionally using forced local labour.
However, the European Union is in favour of introducing a ban and of imposing sanctions as and where necessary, preferably through the United Nations Security Council, rather than by individual countries or groups of countries.
As far as one particularly controversial product is concerned - so-called blood diamonds - both the international community and the European Union have taken specific action.
To be precise, thirty-seven countries and the European Parliament finalised a certification process for uncut diamonds at Interlaken in Switzerland in November 2002, the so-called Kimberley process, precisely in a bid to fight the trade in illegally mined diamonds from conflict zones, especially in Africa.
The European Union also adopted Council resolution 2368/2002 on the application of the Kimberley certification process on 20 December, which is when it became operational.
Madam President, the Commission is extremely concerned by the fact that the plunder of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo continues to be one of the main elements fuelling the conflict in the Great Lakes Region.
With this in mind, the Commission has worked actively with the panel of experts on the illegal exploitation of natural resources and other forms of wealth in the Democratic Republic of Congo since its establishment.
The Commission organised a meeting in Kinshasa between the experts and the heads of Commission delegations in countries covered by the investigation.
The Commission stands ready to continue this constructive cooperation in the future, if required to do so.
The Commission has taken careful note of the report of the panel of experts, which was the subject of a resolution in the UN Security Council last week.
The Commission welcomes the fact that measures have been taken by the Congolese authorities in relation to officials named in the reports and that the government of Uganda has established a judicial commission of inquiry.
The Commission shares the UN Security Council's call for all states concerned, in particular Zimbabwe and Rwanda, to conduct investigations and to take appropriate measures in relation to their nationals cited in the report, where the circumstances are justified.
The Commission agrees that the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which really took hold of the country during the war, will only come to an end once the rule of law is really established.
In that context, the Commission calls on all parties to the Pretoria Agreement signed last December to implement it without delay and to do so in the spirit of the agreement.
Moreover, the Commission welcomes the decision taken in Sun City in the framework of the Inter-Congolese Dialogue, to establish a special committee to examine the validity of economic and financial agreements made during the war which relate to the exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Together with other donors, the Commission is prepared to support the Democratic Republic of Congo in the transition process and in its efforts to establish an efficient public administration.
The Commission considers that, in order to ensure effective action against the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the entire international community must work together.
The United Nations Security Council is the appropriate forum to ensure such concerted action.
The Commission welcomes the initiative by the United Nations to organise an international conference on peace, democracy, security and development in the Great Lakes Region.
This conference could address the different aspects of illegal exploitation of natural resources from a regional perspective, as part of a long-term strategy and also for the purposes of conflict prevention.
It is very important that we guarantee ownership rights and a steady progress towards transparency in these matters, even without UN Security Council resolutions which have a limited reach.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Council and the Commission for that very insightful analysis of what has been going on.
This resolution is an important step forward in favour of international law and the rule of law.
As we speak, there are some 48 civil conflicts around the world - the majority of them in Africa - being conducted largely in the promotion of one or more supposed sectional or tribal interests.
The Democratic Republic of Congo has been exploited, looted and robbed.
If we can penalise the United States for doing something wrong with its steel, why is it that we are not able to do something in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where millions of people have been exploited and killed for commercial gain?
Madam President, Parliament has long been concerned about the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes Region in Africa in general.
The future of the Democratic Republic of Congo and peace in that country depend on establishing democracy and sustainable development.
I welcome the meeting of the General Affairs Council held in Brussels yesterday and also the Commission's decision to send a significant amount of humanitarian aid to the worst affected areas.
In this connection, I would like to table an amendment to indent 4 tomorrow.
The United Nations report adopts a clear stance on the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
This is why the report was weighed and found wanting by the Security Council this week.
Even more fundamental, however, is the question as to how illegal exploitation can be avoided and counteracted in the future; in other words, how a new stable and democratic order can be established in Congo that will ensure that the country's resources are exploited in a controlled and sustainable manner in order to benefit the entire Congolese population.
The United Nations bears a colossal responsibility for this.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Republic of Congo's geostrategic situation has always, in my view, caused it to be considered as a power with great potential on the African continent.
Unfortunately, under the dictatorship of President Mobutu, the country has fallen into economic and political crisis.
While it has enormous potential in terms of agricultural, forestry and mining resources - on which subject I agree with my colleague - the paradox is that the Democratic Republic of Congo is one of the poorest countries in the world.
That is the important thing about the United Nations report.
The Council and the Commission should also equip themselves with a restrictive legal framework and demand, in particular, greater transparency in the way that markets are allocated.
On a more general note, I would like to say that, in this battle in which we are all engaged against physical attacks on people and for peace and sustainable development, the key notes must be the preservation of the environment, social justice and good governance.
Madam President, the situation in the Congo is tragic.
The top political leaders, regional and foreign companies and the armed forces have established what appears to be a real war economy.
The United Nations report that we presented to the Committee on Development and Cooperation is, in our opinion, a significant opportunity to put an end to this human tragedy.
The list of people involved in this damaging trafficking should be the spearhead for us to launch genuine and forceful action.
The responsibility of companies is now closely linked to that of our governments.
If we do not promptly give a strong political signal by taking restrictive action against them and stressing our support for the principles of the OECD, they will continue to violate the law and human rights without batting an eyelid.
Madam President, I come from what was once a colonising country, Belgium, whose emotional ties with the Democratic Republic of Congo have never been cut.
The Congo has exceptional natural resources.
In 1997, the value of the resources in the North was estimated at USD 25 billion.
It is probably the country with the greatest resources in the world.
People are quoting figures of 4.5 million Congolese victims since 1998, 2.5 million people displaced, 16 million condemned to death, thousands deported to Rwanda and Uganda, and I prefer not to mention the details of the massacres that have taken place, which are unbearable.
Madam President, as a Belgian, this resolution appeals to me particularly because Congo used to be a Belgian colony.
It is ridiculous even to think the Zimbabwean government could be asked to investigate its own activities.
The political, economic and humanitarian crisis in Zimbabwe is worsening with serious implications for the security situation.
May I ask the President of the Council and the Commission, in accordance with the clearly expressed wishes of this House over a year or more, to insist that sanctions be renewed unequivocally and that the EU measures be extended to include all of those involved in this racket in Zimbabwe and the Congo.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad, but true, that if Iraq had nothing but dates, war against Baghdad would not even be on the agenda, even if the country were ruled over by a dictator.
We need to work on a much broader basis on the issue of transparency and the principles of licensing.
I just came back from Angola and the discussion about creating more transparency on oil revenue for the government is an extremely important matter.
In the event of conflict, it becomes totally brutal and perverse.
One conclusion is that raising these problems with our friends in Africa collectively injects serious substance into the debates we can have at summits such as the one in Lisbon, which is one good reason why we have to ensure that the summit is a success.
Of course, this will be more effective if we have a clear and clean conscience ourselves.
It is not enough to look at the public budget in a narrow sense when we talk about governance in our partner countries.
This has now been incorporated into a framework of strong conditions governing transparency and the use of the revenue from that pipeline, in the context of the discussions between the World Bank, the IMF, ourselves and the government of Chad.
The Commission has responded with a hundred comments and answers and explanations in a 60 page document.
It is on this basis that Parliament can examine and investigate all the transactions so that the discharge is not only a procedure, but rather a substantial assurance to the European public that Parliament supervises on their behalf and that a rigorous and thorough investigation is carried out.
This forms an important basis for the issues that we raise and investigate.
I believe that, in recent years, the Commission has tried very hard to supply Parliament and the European public with all the information necessary to produce a valid and fair assessment on how the budget is spent.
The Commission is moving towards a system of accountability which will compare with the highest standards of the Member States.
An important point made again in the follow-up to the report is that 80% of the budget is actually administered by the governments of the Member States, while the Commission has final responsibility.
The biggest problem still existing, as identified in our discharge motion for resolution, is the fact that, in the administration of the budget for the year 2000, there was under-utilisation of resources in the order of 14%.
Again, we have commented on the recurrence of the same problem in the 2001 budget.
This of course is a failure in the budgetary procedure but various comments have been made by different people and we have asked for a simplification of the regulations.
The cohesion fund and the structural funds will have to be tailored to a more simplified policy if we are to pursue an efficient regional policy, particularly in the enlarged European Union.
The question has also been raised in our follow-up about the appointment of a European Public Prosecutor.
Mr McCartin has just mentioned that it ran to sixty pages, a fact that I had forgotten.
I could describe to you in detail the many action plans that the Commission has conceived, implemented or already brought to a conclusion in its spheres of activity, which are very wide-ranging.
The Commission attaches the greatest importance to Parliament's resolution - which now exists in draft form - on this report, and I am glad that the present resolution acknowledges the Commission's efforts to improve its financial management, and the steps it has already taken.
In 2002, the Directors-General, for the first time, submitted annual activity reports, which also specifically included financial management.
The new Financial Regulation reinforces the Budget principles, something constantly urged by the Court of Auditors and, I believe, something essential in a Financial Regulation.
In order to make its internal financial management more efficient, the Commission has also, with the budgetary authority's support, introduced a wide range of measures to modernise and improve public services, and, in particular, submitted to the Council proposals for a new version of the Staff Regulations.
The Commission has also stepped up the so-called deconcentration of powers in the administration of external aid, transferring them to its delegations in order to guarantee more speedy and, above all, sounder implementation of financial aid.
The discrepancy between the payment forecasts for 2001 and the payments actually made by the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund resulted, in essence, from the programmes for the new planning period having completed their initial phases rather more slowly than had been expected.
In the course of the Budget year 2002, the Commission had frequent occasion to remind the Member States of their obligations in this regard, in doing which it gave particular emphasis to the importance of estimates being as reliable as possible.
The Commission will also draw up a comprehensive report on the realisation of its objectives - broken down by policy area - and will forward it to the Council and to Parliament.
I would like to conclude by mentioning that, in the Commission's view, our two institutions' framework agreement on the forwarding of confidential information has proved its worth and has - in accordance with the requirement for transparency - made it possible to provide Parliament with confidential information when the latter has requested this.
Tomorrow, my fellow-Commissioner Neil Kinnock will be putting before the Commission his latest report on the state of play as regards reform.
Madam President, Commissioner, the aim of this report is to assess the Commission's implementation of the European Parliament's recommendations.
The high risk and even the practical impossibility of effectively monitoring the operation of the export refunds system was our overriding concern at the time.
We are pleased to note that, in his first annual report on the general activities of the European Union, the Director-General for agriculture has corroborated our viewpoint, in expressing his two main reservations about the Budget for this mechanism: firstly, that the Commission has reduced and simplified the system of refunds in the beef and veal sector and, secondly, that it is committed to gradually reducing the use of these mechanisms in line with negotiations at the World Trade Organisation.
The way the EU budget is implemented is still unsatisfactory.
The situation only got worse from 2000 to 2001 and the trend continued into 2002.
In 2000, EUR 6.5 billion in Structural Funds appropriations remained unspent, in 2001 the figure was 10.5 billion, and last year it was 8.1 billion.
The amount in unpaid commitments in respect of the Structural Funds has grown to EUR 66.7 billion, which is the equivalent of the budget for two years.
The situation is very alarming.
The Commission has been totally incapable of improving its administration: indeed, the situation is entirely beyond remedy.
The present system is unwieldy and arbitrary, as is shown in the report by Jan Mulder, which we are to discuss next.
We must be able to approach the Commission on these issues.
It means that, in the 2001 Budget year, the Member States will be required to remit markedly fewer own resources to the European Union, 81 billion etcetera instead of 90.9 billion.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Every year, between EUR 600 million and EUR 800 million is claimed back from this budget of approximately EUR 45 billion.
Since 1996 we have had a new procedure that more or less involves closing the accounts annually and taking long-term decisions on the conformity of these accounts, in other words about the question as to whether this budget has been properly executed.
In 1996 a conciliation body was set up to resolve any conflicts between the Commission and the Member States, and accreditation of the paying agencies responsible for execution and payments in the Member States was introduced.
In 1996 we also expected that everything would take place a lot more quickly, but that has clearly not been the case.
We are certainly not arguing for all payments of agricultural subsidies to a specific country to be suspended, however; what we are saying is that if things continuously go wrong in a certain sector, the Commission must be able to stop paying the money into the Member State's account until the situation improves.
The control of agricultural subsidies is particularly important in view of the enlargement of the European Union.
It is therefore all the more urgent that the Commission propose a firm approach to this matter and thus also refuse to pay the money if these things are not put right.
We also think that it is a shortcoming that there is still no discharge arrangement for an increasingly more important part of the European budget, namely rural development, as there is for the 1 A part of the budget.
We would like to see the adoption of Parliament's proposal of about a year ago, to the effect that the period of time allowed for corrections should be extended from 24 to 36 months.
That is why I would like to start by thanking you, Mr Mulder, as rapporteur, for your report, which is very precise and gives a very full picture of the auditing procedure.
Both the report and the Court of Auditors back up the Commission's view that the 1996 reform was a success.
I would, though, like to make it clear that we are guided in these matters by the principle of finding a balance between the protection of the Community's financial interests and the Member States' positions as parties to the proceedings.
It is, in my view, tolerable, in order to do justice to both these principles, for some stages to take rather longer, thus enabling the necessary consultations to be carried out.
In the last ten years alone, the Community has reclaimed nearly EUR 6 billion in agricultural aid from the Member States, who have, indeed paid up.
The situation as regards 2002 is currently the subject of intensive examination.
The Commission's decision will take into account all progress that has demonstrably been made in Greece, whilst, at the same time, the Community's financial interests must also be safeguarded in full.
On the one hand, we are to help the candidate countries to be in a position to use IACS in full at the time of their accession, or to offer them the option of using the simplified system, thus making fewer demands of IACS.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I can say, in conclusion, that the audit procedure has, overall, been a success, but that new demands upon it mean that it requires constant revision and appropriate improvements where necessary.
I therefore wish to ask you, honourable Members, to continue to cooperate with the Commission in making this system as good as it can be.
We had a worse situation in the past, when mismanagement of large companies resulted in the fact that, in the clearance of accounts procedures, major corrections were being made against the Member States which were not passed on to the food processors and the people who were involved in the abuses in the first place.
I have to admit that extending that to the applicant countries seems to me, in view of the length of time we have spent getting to where we are in the present Union, to be a daunting task, but I am convinced that the Commission is working towards it.
I do not expect it to run smoothly, but I think that, if we apply the lessons we have learnt, and if we insist on the proper statistics being established in the first place before the money is released, then we will achieve a successful enlargement and will be able to help the rural areas without the loss of too much taxpayers' money.
We have, in fact, attempted to work, albeit holding different political points of view, in a direction that I believe is necessary to support a thoroughgoing reform of the common agricultural policy.
In any event, I think it would be a serious mistake to see the clearance of accounts merely as an activity whose success can be measured according to the profits made.
It is noteworthy, however, that the European Parliament, political body par excellence, is concerned, on its own initiative and in line with the specific rules for studying proposals, with the way in which resources common to all of Europe are allocated and with the outcome of this allocation.
We must also remember that the policy's primary focus must always be the allocation of financial resources, especially when dealing with less highly-developed countries.
Lastly, I believe that, regardless of the current quantitative results of the conciliation process, this process must continue to be used and extended, because it is precisely by implementing it that all the advantages and disadvantages of a political consideration and decision on the implementation of Community funds can be exploited and validated, reserving for the judicial system the exclusive right to act on the fraudulent use of funds made available to Member States.
Here we see the sum of some EUR 3 billion mounting up, and the amount of money outstanding keeps increasing.
The recovery rate for 2000-2001 has been halved, down to some EUR 40 million.
I believe I am right in saying that our recovery rate has not even reached 16 %.
My second point, Commissioner, has to do with the implementation of IACS in Greece and, in future, in the candidate countries.
That is why it is important that we bring pressure to bear on the last Member State of the present Union, telling them that they must introduce this system, or else things will go wrong in connection with enlargement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The Council adopted many elements from Parliament's first reading in its common position, in the same way that Parliament was able to adopt many elements from the common position.
The Commission proposal and the Council's common position are rooted in the 'quick fix' principle, while Parliament had hoped for a broader, horizontal approach.
Obviously, however, it is not Parliament's aim to defend its position to the letter, but instead ensure that there are no grey areas left in EU legislation where public participation would be justified but impossible owing to some blunder on the part of a legislator.
During conciliation we were able to find a two-stage solution to the problem.
On the one hand, the requirements concerning public participation in line with the Århus Convention are to be included in new Community legislation from the outset.
The time limits for participation in decision-making at the various stages must be reasonable, so that the public can prepare and participate in decision-making effectively.
In accordance with the Århus Convention, projects relating to national defence may be excluded from the scope of the directive only on the basis of case-by-case decisions by the Member States' authorities.
It should be mentioned in particular that, in order to ensure the result of the conciliation procedure does have an effect, the Commission has undertaken, in a statement to be annexed to the directive, to submit in the first quarter of 2003 a proposal for a directive concerning the implementation of the Århus Convention as regards access to justice in environmental matters.
I would like to thank the Commission, the Council and especially Denmark, the country that held the presidency, now transferred to Greece, for their excellent levels of cooperation during conciliation and in the unofficial discussions that preceded it.
The scope of this directive covers fundamental requirements for public participation in decision-making on the environment.
This is important, because public participation must be at the heart of all levels of administration, and the forms it takes must be adapted to decision-making at the various levels.
The directive covers, on the one hand, important plans and programmes to be drawn up in accordance with our environmental legislation, and, on the other hand, decisions on activities that can have a significant impact on the environment.
These two directives are now being supplemented with provisions on public participation and access to justice in accordance with the Århus Convention.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the complaints most frequently made by the citizens concerns their limited role in representative democracy.
This indignation increases exponentially when many of these projects with unacceptable environmental impacts are funded under the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds.
It was therefore very important that, in the wake of the Aarhus Convention, the Commission has legislated on public participation and public access to information.
This proposal for a directive on public participation in drawing up certain environmental plans and programmes is a good example of how the citizens' participation in politics can be made more democratic.
I also congratulate our rapporteur on the work she has done in Parliament and also in the Conciliation Committee.
I should like to highlight three main results of this Conciliation.
Firstly, the fact that NGOs should participate fully in the debate on access to information in this process; secondly, the fact that all Community legislation has to explicitly define conditions for public participation; and thirdly the mandatory participation of the public in cases considered to be significant.
Madam President, Commissioner, the results of conciliation overall are good and worthy of our support.
The aim of the directive is to harmonise Community legislation with the Århus Convention.
It is important in general too that on many points it is required that the information given is supplied in language that is clear and that the authorities help the public to understand the information that is available.
It is also good that public participation is to increase in the most important areas of all, that the public right of access to information about the reasons for granting or refusing a permit is being endorsed, and, once again, that authorities will be required to provide correct, clear and explicit information.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Lowering the sulphur content of fuels will perhaps have proved even more important when we try to reduce air pollution.
The reason why this reform is more important now than the previous one, however, is that car manufacturers are continually developing engines which are cleaner and which produce fewer emissions.
I might perhaps say that Sweden and Finland were the countries where this was realised earlier on and clean fuels were brought onto the market very swiftly.
I think this interim evaluation in 2005 only complicates matters, but we did not succeed in getting this through in Parliament at second reading.
The phasing-in of zero-sulphur fuels will be complete by 1 January 2009.
The adoption of this directive is really good news for health and the environment in Europe.
As we heard, this amendment will mean that trade in diesel and petrol with a sulphur content exceeding 10mg/kg will be banned from 2005.
Therefore, on behalf of the Socialists, I would recommend the report to the House and thank the rapporteur for all the work she has done, as well as all the other people who have been involved in this long process.
The debate is closed.
