Banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury (11488/1/2007 - C6-0034/2008 - (Rapporteur: Dimitrios Papadimoulis).
The EU is a major exporter of mercury; every year it supplies about 1 000 tonnes of the current world total of 3 600 tonnes.
The proposed Regulation under discussion deals mainly with 12 000 tonnes of mercury which will become surplus in the coming years, and it will pave the way for further measures to be taken at international level.
An express prohibition has been imposed against mixing metallic mercury with other substances for export.
The ban on exports of mercury and certain mercury compounds has been brought forward.
A review clause has been included requiring the Commission to re-examine the situation and submit a report on the matter to the European Parliament and the Council no later than 15 March 2013.
This Regulation implements two of the procedures mentioned by the Commission in its communication of 2005 to the Council and the European Parliament on the Community Strategy Concerning Mercury.
The Regulation is concerned mainly with 12 000 tonnes of mercury that will become surplus in the coming years because mercury cell technology in the chlor-alkali industry will be progressively phased out.
In addition to Amendments 42-63, which have already been agreed, five new amendments have been tabled on the use of the Almadén district in Spain as a priority area for the safe storage of metallic mercury.
A research programme coordinated by the company MAYASA, which owns the area, is receiving more than EUR 2 million in funding from the LIFE Fund.
Its findings will be useful for setting acceptance conditions for the final disposal of mercury, as provided for in Amendment 56 to the proposed regulation.
However, the Commission cannot justify the proposed priority in Amendments 37-41 of only one region, and therefore cannot accept those amendments.
To sum up, the European Commission can accept the compromise package as agreed in the tripartite discussions, namely Amendments 42-63.
However, I must express my dissatisfaction at the final stage of this process, namely the informal meetings that were held with the Council with a view to reaching the second-reading agreement.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Socialists are going to vote in solidarity and coherence with the district of Almadén, Spain, which is going to be seriously affected by the text that we are discussing and that we are to vote on tomorrow.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Papadimoulis for his excellent report and for the hard work he put into ensuring good cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs as well as with the Commission and Council representatives.
The aim of the proposal under consideration is to ban the export of metallic mercury from the Community, as well as to ensure that the mercury does not re-enter the market and is safely stored in line with Actions 5 and 9 identified in the Community strategy concerning mercury, on which I had the honour to be rapporteur and which was adopted by Parliament two years ago.
Suffice to say that my group stands by and will honour its agreement with the rapporteur on the compromise package and can only hope that other political groups will do the same.
Imagine 10 000 tonnes of liquid mercury.
For my Group, therefore, Article 7 was crucial to a resolution of the matter, in other words the article in which we are to return to the question of waste solidification.
I was gratified today to receive an e-mail from a Swedish waste organisation (det svenska avfallsbolaget) which says that a pilot plant is now being constructed that can already handle 500 kg of waste and convert it to insoluble, solid form.
When we return to the matter in 2010, I can guarantee that disposal in solid form will be a safe method which complies with the EU legislation. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Schlyter has just said, 10 thousand tonnes is a very large amount.
Just to give you an idea of the scale, it is enough to poison approximately 4 million people a day.
The Almadén mine has been closed since 2003.
The mine also has the capacity to store all of the liquid mercury in the European Union, at a depth of 200 metres, in an enclave of quartzite rock and volcanic rock with a high degree of impermeability, as verified by the Director for Sustainable Development and Integration of the European Commission's Environment DG, Mr Mäkelä, and the Slovenian Environment Minister, who visited the area in March 2007. (SK) Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor.
The report by my fellow Member Mr Papadimoulis mentions dental amalgam as one of the sources of mercury supplies in Europe.
Stomatologists in the European Union use 125 tonnes of mercury each year.
They carry out more than 200 million mercury fillings each year.
Our citizens walk around with more than 1 100 tonnes of mercury in their mouths.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the agreed text, mercury no longer used in the chlor-alkali industry or produced in other industrial enterprises will be regarded as waste and will be put into safe storage as soon as the ban on exports comes into effect on 15 March 2011.
A review clause requires the Commission to re-examine the situation and submit a report on the matter to the European Parliament and the Council proposing additional measures, if considered advisable, no later than 15 March 2013.
Adopting of this Regulation ahead of the discussions scheduled for October 2008 on proposed international action, will demonstrate the EU's commitment and determination.
It is therefore essential that we agree on this compromise text.
To conclude, Mr President, the Commission is in a position to accept proposed compromise amendments 42-63, as agreed in the tripartite talks.
