The outcome of the talks helped to avoid a state of non-agreement between the EU and the United States, which is very important.
The new arrangement will guarantee both the level of protection of personal data under the former agreement and the continuation of transatlantic air traffic.
The Committee of Permanent Representatives followed the progress of the talks closely and discussed the outcome and its content on 6 October.
Coreper will sign it for the EU tomorrow, and the intention is that the Council should grant the authority to sign as soon as possible.
The temporary agreement will remain in force until the end of July 2007.
The aim is to start these talks as soon as possible.
The biggest challenge in the negotiations was how to respond to the changes that had occurred since 2004 in US legislation and the organisation of the administration while at the same time maintaining the principles relating to standards of data protection for Europeans.
This is vitally important.
The aim is to guarantee the same level of data protection for citizens' PNR data as with the previous system.
Thirdly, I am glad that the release of PNR data under the new agreement is aimed at the same 34 fields of data as in the earlier arrangement.
Fourthly, the new agreement will guarantee the legal security of the public and that transatlantic flights will continue.
Talks on a more permanent PNR system to replace this temporary agreement in July 2007 are to commence in the near future.
We have also agreed that questions relating to the storage and destruction of data should only be resolved during these talks on the PNR system.
We are not looking at a change in the agreement because, as you know very well, we have clarified the meaning of the undertakings.
Previously, that is to say at the beginning of 2004, there was only the United States Customs and Border Protection.
We have inserted a reference to that same Article 6, replacing the reference to a directive on data protection, because the European Court of Justice has established that that directive is not directly applicable in security matters.
We have accordingly replaced it with a more general cross-reference - in my view, one that is still more binding - to Article 6 of the EU Treaty, where there is a reference to the fundamental rights of individuals.
I can assure you that the Commission intends to set in train such negotiations in January 2007, so that they will be sufficiently far advanced by the end of July 2007 for a definitive agreement to be reached.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, only recently, some elements in this House celebrated the ruling of the European Court of Justice to the effect that the agreement between the EU and the United States on US access to airline passenger data was invalid on formal grounds.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I wish to say, on behalf of my group, that we urgently needed to reach a new agreement with the United States.
Article 24 of the Treaty provides that the European Union is the contracting party.
Finally, the negotiations for the new 2007 agreement must focus on defining a binding, global framework which guarantees the protection of security and of the fundamental rights of citizens.
We must not be shy of repeating that the European Parliament and the national parliaments must be involved.
It is, moreover, necessary to engage in an overall reflection on the protection of data relating to European citizens within the framework of transatlantic relations.
That is the only basis on which a new agreement can be concluded.
I know that you are our ally at least on that one. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, Mrs in 't Veld is not in the wrong play; this is about the defence of the rights of our citizens and the role of Parliament.
We are talking about a serious encroachment on fundamental rights without any legal basis.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs in 't Veld is right: the PNR agreement concluded last week is by no means cause for celebration.
The real scandal is the fact that, in future, this all-powerful US authority will be able to routinely transmit data on European airline passengers to all the US authorities active in the field of combating terrorism - which includes the CIA, and we all know what that is capable of.
These are questions which I think all European citizens want to have answered.
I believe that this reference is open to numerous interpretations.
We would have to put into the hands of the American authorities 34 personal data items, of which, as the Americans themselves testify, only seven or eight would normally be used.
What has happened in Europe is clear for all to see: Parliament has even set up a special commission on CIA activities in Europe, and there have been discussions on what happened with SWIFT, when it was discovered that our bank accounts were being inspected by the Americans.
Paragraph 6 of the agreement says that the Department of Homeland Security is 'deemed' to ensure an adequate level of data protection.
The Commission and the Council say that the agreement delivers legal certainty for EU citizens.
You know very well, Mr Roure, that national parliaments have the right - and in some cases the obligation - to ratify agreements.
It is therefore clear that we shall apply Article 24 of the agreement, including the part that states that it will come into force immediately.
As far as the limited scope of the agreement is concerned, someone - I think it was again Mrs in 't Velt - stated that the transmission of data would no longer be justified only by the war on terrorism but also by other objectives.
Points 3 and 34 of the undertakings, which have not been modified, established and still establish that, in the event of a matter of life and death, including cases other than specific investigation of terrorism, personal data may be requested.
I should like to thank the Commissioner and all colleagues who took part in that important debate.
