Apart from this important development, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves and President Dmitri Medvedev held the first official meeting of Heads of State of the two countries in over 14 years.
In June 2006 the social bureau took away the children of Bulgarian citizen Roumyana Ivanova, residing in the Netherlands.
The Bulgarian State Agency for Child Protection and other organizations are continuing to send requests for the children to be accepted for raising in Bulgaria pursuant to Article 5, 9 and 20 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in respect to contact with the parents, fostering and care for them in their homeland.
In 2007, EUR 12 million were collected on the Bulgarian side while only EUR 17,000 were invested in the maintenance of the bridge.
I am also turning to the Commission to encourage the finding of a solution to this pressing public problem. (ET) My fellow Member Toomas Savi has already mentioned Khanty-Mansiysk, a small town in Siberia where the European Union-Russia summit was held at the end of last month; it was also the venue for another very important event, namely the Fifth Finno-Ugric World Congress in which the Presidents of four countries participated - Russia, Hungary, Finland and Estonia.
I strongly believe that this initiative will have a positive effect on improving the health condition of the European citizens who, for various reasons, cannot request such services in their country of origin, as well as on increasing the quality of medical procedures in the European area. (PL) Mr President, we Polish MEPs have become very disturbed by the situation in Belarus, a country that borders the European Union.
I would like to be clear - I am not asking for compromises for Bulgaria or Romania, I am asking for fair and equal treatment of each member-state. (SK) In March 2003, when Castro's regime unjustly convicted and imprisoned 75 Cuban dissidents, the European Union introduced sanctions against Cuba.
In the case of Załožby za serbski lud (Foundation for the Sorbian People), resources have been gradually cut back over the years.
There are plans to relocate part of the Fujitsu activities to the US, and this may mean up to 140 people losing their jobs.
I would like to know whether there are specific reasons why this post has not been filled and why the chosen candidates have not been appointed. (RO) The Commission's Work Programme for 2008 includes, among strategic initiatives, the adoption of a package regarding the development of ecological transport.
I am delighted to be able to tell you that, in this very short time, we have already collected 14 000 signatures.
I hope, however, that you are not discouraged by this and will develop further initiatives in these six months, too. (PL) Mr President, several months ago we held a debate in this Chamber on the situation at Gdańsk Shipyard.
Many civilians, police officers and demonstrators were injured, including the administrative director of the Hungarian liberal party, Gábor Horn, and a Socialist Member of the European Parliament, Katalin Lévai.
I would like to remind you that surrounding the house of the European people with riot police is a strange way to begin the French Presidency and I am keen to point out that we want this house to remain a house of the people, open to citizens. (SK) Since we shall not meet again until after 21 August, the 40th anniversary of the occupation of Czechoslovakia by Warsaw Pact troops, I feel it my duty to draw attention to those dramatic events.
The speeches by the EU delegation present and the four heads of state, especially the Hungarian head of state, have emphasised how important it is that endangered peoples should have not only dance groups and choirs but also education in their mother tongue and self-determination.
The second is that we are facing incomprehensible phenomena when the parliament of a European country wants to vote to decide that its country should be monolingual when there are 75 regional languages in that country.
Thank you. (PL) Madam President, a few weeks before the Olympic Games in Beijing, the only independent information station, New Tang Dynasty Television, ceased to broadcast to China.
The European Parliament has a duty to protect the personal rights and privacy of European citizens if these are infringed.
In other words, if you want to buy 10 million euros' worth of futures in oil, all you have to do is put down half a million euros as an investment.
