Membership of Parliament The next item is the report by Alain Lamassoure and Adrian Severin, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the composition of the European Parliament.
Article 9 A of the draft Treaty states that in future the composition of the Parliament will be a matter for secondary legislation.
Up to now, in the Council and in Parliament, the Member States have been divided into categories: one supersize state, some large ones, some medium-sized, some small, etc.
The future Treaty introduces two types of innovation in relation to this system.
On the one hand, there are actual figures: a maximum of 750 MEPs, a ceiling of 96 and a minimum of 6 seats per Member State.
In particular, the use of the ceiling of 750 seats will give us a small reserve -as it were - of seats, so degressive proportionality can be applied without reducing the number of seats of any country.
So at present, a Spanish MEP represents more than 875 000 people, Mr President, while a German MEP represents only 832 000.
Similarly, we had to use the only population figures available, those from Eurostat, since we did not have any figures from the citizens themselves.
Adrian Severin will say more about this.
Finally, we would warn our fellow members against amendments that contradict the fundamental principles of the report and will have the effect, depending on the case, of giving the large countries an abnormal advantage over the smaller countries or small countries over the large countries, in which case our work will have been in vain, because without unanimity in the Council we will have to stick with the 736 seats of the Treaty of Nice.
One should note the difference between the democratic legitimacy of the European Parliament, which is based on the vote of the European citizens, and national representativity within the European Parliament, which is based on the demographic realities within the Member States.
We are a Bundestag and a Bundesrat at the same time.
It is transitional because I believe the principles we have defined are long-lasting, but progress is needed, and I am sure that in the future we can add to what we have already proposed to you.
I do not think anybody loses - and, perhaps, nobody wins - in terms of a zero-sum game.
Some colleagues would like to reduce digressivity in favour of proportionality - more proportionality means more seats for the big countries.
Some others would like more digressivity and not more proportionality.
More digressivity means more seats for small countries.
Others are trying to see only the European citizens residing in a certain country.
Finally, there are some who are fighting for political prestige and think that, if we are not equally represented in this Parliament, we are unequal in our political weight.
We would like a little bit more support here because the discussion in the German press is very explicit in this regard.
Our Group has decided that irrespective of how the vote goes on the two controversial subjects, in the end the Group will vote in favour of the Lamassoure/Severin Report.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I would like to support this report.
My group will be voting for it and we hope that this text that was adopted by a 70% majority in committee can now be endorsed by an equally impressive majority in Parliament as a whole.
Now, of course, some of our colleagues are trying to win more seats for their own Member State, sometimes arguing that their country's population is suddenly much bigger than we had all assumed beforehand, bigger than the Eurostat figures that are used by everybody, including the Council.
Others are arguing, for reasons of national prestige, that they should have the same number of seats as another particular Member State.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, the ALDE Group will also support the Lamassoure-Severin proposal.
Paragraph 6 applies a practicable and sensible definition of degressive proportionality.
Because, if anything, when we look back over the changes that have occurred since the first direct elections to the European Parliament took place in 1979, there have been phenomenal demographic and population trend changes across the European Union, not least because of the expansion of the European Union into eastern Europe in 2004, which allowed for the free movement of so many people into other countries, which has altered the populations greatly.
I think one of the careful elements that we have to speak about (and we can speak about degressive proportionality till the cows come home) is that there has always been a balance between the different institutions - and also a balance between the larger and smaller Member States - to ensure that no one institution would have total domination over another, or that larger Member States could not dominate medium-sized or small Member States.
But, as well as that, when we look at the figures that have been used - and much has been quoted by other colleagues here with regard to the Eurostat figures - out of the 27 countries, the figures that Eurostat for 15 of those countries are using are only provisional figures from the central statistics offices of those countries.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, my Group will not be voting for this report because the proposed system of representation, and the distribution of seats, disregards basic democratic principles, sustains historic inequalities and is contrary to the nature of this House as representative of the citizens and of its electors.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, there are different views in my Group.
I, however, support the report by Messrs Lamassoure und Severin.
It does so thanks to the intensive work done by both rapporteurs in a genuine European spirit.
By using all 750 possible seats, it also ensures that in future Parliament will reflect the whole range of the main political orientations from each country.
I therefore hope that the Council unreservedly and speedily implements Parliament's proposal before the 2009 elections.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lamassoure-Severin report should be scornfully rejected because of its ideological anti-Italian subtext and the superficial nature of the technical arguments versus the political arguments on which it rests.
For some countries brackets have been left in the system, and there are some glaring instances of distortion of the facts, such as the allocation to Estonia of the same number of seats as Malta, although it has three times the population.
We can accept that in the United Kingdom people with the right to vote include residents who are not European citizens, and on this basis the rapporteurs allocate the UK one more seat than Italy, even though of those with the right to vote only a little more than one third voted in the 2004 election.
I therefore ask for an increase in the number of representatives and employees from the 12 new Member States in all EU institutions.
Equality is one of the principles underlying the EU.
Even the original Member States committed to honour this principle when they welcomed among them the 12 new Member States.
When the new Member States joined the EU they had to fulfil many criteria.
Now I appeal to the EU as a whole to fulfil its commitments towards them. (SV) Madam President, by supporting Mr Lamassoure's report the European Union can take a historic step.
With this report we can leave behind a time when the number of seats in the European Parliament was distributed on the basis of a system where different countries were categorised in different groups, on the basis of the negotiating skills of different heads of government, and where it is assumed that the EU's Member States have conflicting interests.
If Parliament chooses to support Mr Lamassoure's report, we will leave behind this system and move to one based on the proportionality principle, where a country's size affects its representation in Parliament.
The system that we have had up to now has been very difficult to explain, but the system that we can get with the Lamassoure report is possible to explain.
The Lamassoure report should be supported because it is based on a principle. (PT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drawn up by Alain Lamassoure and Adrian Severin on the future composition of the European Parliament is an important contribution which highlights a balanced and objective solution on a matter which is, politically speaking, highly sensitive.
It is important to set out the European Parliament's position for the smooth running of the work of the IGC, which should be completed in Lisbon on 18 and 19 October.
It is therefore essential to acknowledge the political link between this new proposal on distribution of seats in line with the principle of degressive proportionality and the reform package for the Union's institutions, in particular the double majority principle for the definition of a majority in the Council.
I would like to take the opportunity to stress that the institutional aspect of the Reform Treaty needs to be coherent and that, as regards the question of double majority, which will ostensibly enter into force only in 2014-2017, the Treaties should not contain any gentlemen's agreements like the Ioannina compromise, which remain in force but, whilst they are legally recognised in the current framework, would merely serve to block the decision-making process in the Council.
I am thinking of the almost 50 million Europeans who belong to a regional or a national linguistic minority.
The European Parliament has wasted a great opportunity to demonstrate to the other institutions the capacity to find within itself solutions based on legal principles that are commonly recognised and shared.
Not only that, but it is also detrimental, not only for our country - my country - but also for the other countries of the Union.
This proposal for the composition of seats is, in our view, ill-advised.
Italy is being penalised, and that is a cause for concern, but what matters most of all is that the reasons for this penalisation are ill-founded.
Those who, like Italy, have given the right to vote to citizens not resident in the country are being penalised.
On the whole, Germany will continue to be compensated for having had the same number of votes in the Council as Italy, the United Kingdom and France, even though it currently gets maximum value out of every German in the Council.
There cannot be both voting according to population figures in the Council and an approximation of the same voting principle also in Parliament.
It is true that the June European Council asked Parliament to present a draft concerning the future composition of Parliament, but we now discover that the whole proposal is based on the Reform Treaty, a text that has yet to be ratified, let alone enter into force.
In any case, I support a broad interpretation of this principle of degressive proportionality, and therefore intend to support the relevant amendment by Mr Bonde.
In my view, it is in the interests of the European Union that the smaller Member States have the best possible representation in the European Parliament; if not, we shall see a further fall in popular support for the European institutions. (PL) Madam President, today we have two successive debates here in the European Parliament which will tell us what the order will be in the European Union and how power will be shared out.
I take a highly critical view of this new attempt to introduce the Constitutional Treaty under the new name of Reform Treaty, as well as of the new distribution of votes in the European Parliament, which discriminates against my country.
The report, based on highly dubious and far-fetched arguments that was adopted in the European Parliament's Constitutional Committee, clearly strikes at some countries and favours others; and not for the first time, either.
And today in the group, and I think here in plenary, we can see what it is all about.
I really thought that the European Parliament was here to represent the interests of all European peoples, not narrow national interests.
The third option is what I call a provocative option and that is two provocations: one, to give the big states a hell of a lot more and the small states a hell of a lot less.
We will be distributing the seats in 2009, whereas the new formula for distributing votes in the Council of Ministers will not apply until 2014.
If the new treaty is not implemented, the Treaty of Nice and the accession treaties will remain in force, which means that all countries will have fewer seats.
I thank both the rapporteurs, Messrs Lamassoure and Severin, for the work they have done.
The EU is based on a different concept and we are in fact broadening this debate in order that all residents of the EU are represented by us and not just those in possession of a Member State's passport.
There are 30 million in the EU who do not have the passport of a Member State, but who abide by our laws.
Madam President, I would just like to say to Mr Stubb that Lithuania does not gain in any of the cases he gave. (LT) I would like to say to Mr Alexander that Lithuania will have the same number of seats in all three cases, because in the first case it is determined, in the second case it is determined, and in the third case...
The problem of my country is that we have fought for our survival for many centuries.
Mr Stubb is right: this is one of the saddest debates that I have attended in this House, but I hope that tomorrow the result of the vote on this report will be one of the best moments that we experience, because this report, which is not only theirs but also belongs to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with 70 % support, firstly responds to what the Council has asked of this House; secondly applies the principle of degressive proportionality, thirdly, guarantees a representative Parliament, something that would have been impossible with the Treaty of Nice, partly because under this treaty, in an unjustifiable and unjustified way, some countries like Spain ended up with no proportional logic in terms of their representation.
Fortunately, the proposal by Mr Lamassoure and Mr Severin, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, adequately resolves this problem.
Instead of the 832 000 voters per MEP to date, there will now be 858 000.
This will not happening in the Council until 2014.
The Lamassoure/Severin report secures the highest possible number of seats that Germany is able to have under the Treaty.
The Treaty of Nice already stipulates that there is a maximum of 96 seats.
This consequence is a further deterioration in the atmosphere as regards European policy at home in Germany.
If this signal, a European signal, is strong, it is good for us all and I expressly include Germany in this. (NL) Madam President, as has already been said repeatedly in this House, it is ultimately Parliament's credibility that is at stake in this debate.
This is about workers, about employees, about Poles who are temporarily living abroad - 3 million Poles abroad.
Poland is losing the most in the Council with the transition to double majority voting, and it also loses out in Parliament.
This imbalance, which affects all the new Member States, could be ironed out here in Parliament.
The proposal refers for the first time to a criterion for calculation based on the resident population in each Member State, replacing the criterion of citizenship.
I will finish, Madam President, by calling upon my fellow Members to vote in a way that is consistent with what is laid down by the Treaties and with what our role as members of parliament has been up until now and ought to continue to be: the expression of citizenship. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stubb, who has unfortunately left, mentioned sadness this evening, and other Members have also expressed the same feelings.
This point has also been made by those who have supported the report, as well as in the compromise proposals by Mr Lamassoure and Mr Severin; Mr Leinen mentioned it, and Mr Duff also put it excellently: here we are not sure of our electorate!
It is natural, and probably a duty, for those who find themselves injured to go before the courts as the extrema ratio, as the supreme decision-making body for such an important decision.
I appeal to my government, the government of my country, which has shown extreme weakness so far on this process, from the outset in Berlin, to finally rediscover its pride and exercise the right of veto on this proposal. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, between today and tomorrow we have a historic opportunity to influence the decision on the future composition of the European Parliament.
The proposed distribution of seats in the European Parliament is based on the principle of digressive proportionality.
The proposed solution is also based on the principle of demographic realities of individual Member States.
Discrimination and inequality would be allocating the same number of seats to two countries with a difference in population of five million.
Firstly, our fellow Members are proposing a solution that is ad hoc in nature, temporary, and solely for the next term.
Various estimates suggest that there are between 2 and 3 million such people.
The report does not answer these questions.
In this context I feel it is essential for changes to be made to the report's text, and along with many fellow Members we shall be voting for certain amendments. (EL) Madam President, it is widely accepted that the current distribution of seats in the European Parliament does not properly represent the demographic realities in the Member States and that the correlations are unfavourable for certain medium-sized and smaller countries.
The fact that the report does not reduce the number of seats laid down in the Treaty of Nice is certainly a positive one.
As an MEP, I feel that I represent those in the section of the population of my country: without necessarily being citizens of Greece or of Europe, they are bringing up our children, looking after our elderly people, building our houses, staffing our universities, contributing to the insurance system and sending their children to our schools.
We have had to listen to speakers who have put forward principles with a very great deal of pathos, principles which have still not brought us any further forward in practical terms and which therefore have nothing to offer apart from pathos.
This has certainly been no way to success in the search for a European solution and as such, will probably not bring us any closer to a solution either.
Thankfully we have also heard some who have been pragmatic and looked for comprehensible solutions and therefore in the proposal of both our rapporteurs - Alain Lamassoure und Adrian Severin - have found a suitable base.
I believe we should express our sincere thanks to both rapporteurs for the work they have done in committee as well as in what follows next.
The European Parliament has at any rate put forward a sensible base for the 2009 elections. (EL) Mr President, in order correctly to assess the report by the two rapporteurs, Mr Severin and Mr Lamassoure, we need to take into account certain facts and to apply certain rules.
There are 750 MEPs, 96 per country at most and 6 per country as a minimum.
What matters today, therefore, is that we reach a result which has the widest possible support from the European Parliament, so that we retain our credibility and at the same time open up the way for European and not nationalistic movements.
The democratic principle that all votes should have equal weight is something that cannot be applied until such time as the European Union becomes a fully federal system.
But, because some have approached this exercise as a national ego trip, it needs to be emphasised that we are dealing here with how citizens elect their representatives to this Parliament according to their political preferences, to act as a co-legislator with the Council; it is the Council that represents the state, and not this House. (MT) Like the European Constitution, the Reform Treaty will introduce the principle that a Member State, no matter how small, should have adequate representation and cannot have less than six seats in the European Parliament.
This gain will heal a wound, as it were, that happened no less than seven years ago when in the Treaty of Nice Malta was given five seats instead of six, like Luxembourg, which has the same population.
Six seats instead of five means a 20% increase in representation and it also means that the Maltese Members in this Chamber will be in a better position to perform Parliamentary duties that are always on the increase.
These Committees are now preparing laws that bind all citizens including Maltese citizens and it is appropriate that the citizens of each country, even the smallest countries, are in an adequate position, in a good and reasonable position to be represented and heard in each of these committees.
The minimum threshold of six seats is thus a positive step that will increase the small countries' faith in the European Union and therefore I believe that we should support the Lamassoure-Severin report.
I am afraid that many of our colleagues have vanished because they are not looking for an explanation: they simply wanted to make their points, and that is all.
Firstly, if this report fails, we are not only going to go back to Nice, but worse than Nice because, according to the mandate of the IGC, the Treaty will mention the 96 seats as the maximum level for one country - so it will be Nice, and Germany will have 96.
By acting against this report, Germany will not secure the 99 seats they have today; they should be aware of that.
It depends on their residence: whether they are tourists abroad or abroad for a short time does not matter, but if they are resident abroad and they are just visiting their families in Poland, they will be taken into consideration where they live, but they will, of course, be able to vote in the same way as any European citizens.
All European citizens will have the right to vote, and all European citizens will be represented by those MEPs for whom they vote.
My experience tells me that parliamentarians are people who speak better than they listen.
And this was the way it turned out during this debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 11 October 2007.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (PT) This proposal falls within the ambit of the 'European Constitution' which is to be taken up again at the Lisbon Summit in relation to a new Treaty, once again asserting the pressures and threats previously brought to bear before it was rejected in the popular referendums in France and in the Netherlands in 2005.
Thus, for example, Portugal loses two Members and is left with only 22, whilst Spain gains four; it is certain that Germany will lose three, leaving it with 96; in addition France will have 74, the United Kingdom 73, Italy 72, Spain 55 and Poland 51.
The six European powers alone account for 420 Members, many more than the majority of a European Parliament with 750 Members representing 27 Member States.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, I represent a small Member State on the Union's periphery.
In general Members from the big Member States have understood this, at least those in my group.
When Mr Lamassoure's report was being drafted, a small country's voice was heard inasmuch as I, along the other Finnish MEPs, kept hold of Finland's 14 seats in Parliament.
The amendment, according to which each Member State would have six seats as from 2014 and that the rest of the seats in Parliament should be allocated in accordance with the d'Hondt system, will completely destroy the current system of degressive proportionality, which is the best way of guaranteeing objective decision-making in the Union.
in writing. - (SV) The distribution of seats among the Member States in the European Parliament must not on any account be arbitrary.
Even though our population is roughly only one million smaller than Hungary and the Czech Republic, we were given five fewer seats in the European Parliament, 19 seats rather than 24.
This report proposes improvements on the current distribution of seats in the European Parliament.
