European Training Foundation (recast) (debate) The next item is the report (Α6-0131/2008) by Mr Lehideux, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Training Foundation (recast) - C6-0243/2007 -.
In my view, the compromise reached with the Council offers progress in two essential directions.
The main point at this stage is that henceforth the choice is available and that the debate on Parliament's involvement is launched.
In that context, I am convinced that we must create a real link between Parliament and the agencies.
On the latter point we arrived at a sound solution in committee on the basis of a PPE-DE proposal.
As the rapporteur said, under Article 10 of the new regulation, the Director will be appointed from a shortlist of at least three candidates submitted by the Commission.
The arrangement set out in the proposed Article 7, whereby Parliament can appoint three non-voting representatives, is inexpedient.
May I therefore appeal once again to the Council - whose representative, unfortunately, is not in attendance - to reconsider its position.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lehideux, for his cooperation and work on the report on the European Training Foundation in Torino.
I have been shadow rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and we have been through some tough negotiations with the Council, but I believe that we have arrived at a good compromise proposal.
I am also very pleased that the Foundation's new structure reinforces the link between the European Parliament and the Foundation.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by commending the European Training Foundation in Turin for the valuable work it has been performing since 1994.
I firmly believe that what our Foundation in Turin is doing constitutes very useful neighbourhood aid, whether it be in the Balkans, in Eastern Europe or in North Africa.
I must address some frank words of criticism to the Council, whose negotiating tactics, following the achievement of consensus in the first round, involved topping up the Council representation to 27 and then initially failing to understand why we in Parliament also wished to be represented on the Board and then, finally, agreeing to three specialised representatives, but as non-voting members.
I see that our proposal is for it to be run variously by six representatives from Member States, plus six from the Commission and only three from Parliament, or that plus representatives from partner countries appointed by the Commission.
Amendment 7 suggests that the Commission would submit candidates for the directorship of the ETF, and this causes concern in many quarters.
I think that we have arrived at a good settlement, both as regards the way we appoint the Director of the Foundation but also as regards the fact that we can appoint three experts without voting rights on the Governing Board.
First, Amendment 10 to Article 7: I would just remind Mrs Stauner that there is a risk of conflict of interest, since Parliament is the authority that gives the budget discharge.
I am speaking for myself, but we are holding a parliamentary debate and I believe for Parliament to confuse its monitoring task with a governing task, which is incompatible with its role, would detract from its fundamental task.
I am convinced that the compromise reached is the most effective one, primarily because it ensures Parliament's independence in carrying out its monitoring function.
The debate is closed.
