rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen - I hope that the Council Presidency is going to join us - it has now been more than six years since the adoption of the Directive on temporary work was postponed, not because of Parliament, which gave its opinion as soon as the Commission's proposal was referred to it in 2002, but precisely because of the deadlock of certain Member States within the Council.
Temporary work concerns a very large number of sectors that vary according to the Member State: industry, in some countries, services, in others, and construction, agriculture and transport, in others still.
However, in other countries, such as Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands, it may be several months, indeed even a year or more in Austria.
Having received an initial draft, in November 2002 the European Parliament, following on from the report by my fellow Member, Mrs van den Burg, who is still here in this House and to whom I should like to pay tribute, strengthened this draft legislation by making it possible to guarantee equal treatment from day one, in particular regarding pay.
The European Parliament's amendments on the definition of the basic working and employment conditions, in particular with the inclusion of pay in Article 3, have also been incorporated in the common position.
That is why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs decided on 7 October to recommend the adoption of the common position, without amendment, in order to protect this, the most insecure employment sector in Europe.
I feel I have nothing to add to the general points that have been put forward, but would like just to focus on the results of the political agreement of the 10 June and to point out the successes which have been achieved across a range of key points in the interests of the European Parliament.
The Commission is pleased with the consensus on the common position taken by the Council in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and I must repeat my congratulations to the rapporteur and the political groups for confirming their willingness to adopt a common position without further amendments.
On 9 June, in Luxembourg, the Council reached an agreement on two texts that the Member States of the European Union had been debating for several years.
The second is a draft directive on the working conditions of temporary workers that has been debated since 2002.
I should like first of all to say to you that, in my view, the adoption of this text on temporary workers will send out a very strong signal to all Europeans: that 2008 can be the year of the revival of social Europe.
The draft directive that we are debating this evening is a vitally important text, for a start because of the number of Europeans it will affect.
In 2006, there were 3.4 million temporary workers in Europe.
However, if we count the number of people who, at one time or another, find themselves on the list of temporary employment agencies, we arrive at 6 million people who are affected.
I should also like to highlight the efforts made in this matter by the United Kingdom, by paying tribute to the agreement reached between the United Kingdom's social partners on 19 May 2008.
This also demonstrates that, with perseverance, creativity and dialogue, we can emerge from situations that are seemingly at a standstill, even on social matters, even in Europe, even in order to adopt directives.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Mr Bertrand, Mr Špidla, firstly, we have here the conclusion of an extremely constructive piece of work between the European institutions, on the one hand, and the Member States, on the other, but also between the political groups and the social partners.
The text we have arrived at is based on a consensus with the social partners.
This draft directive now lays down a general framework for temporary workers in the 27 Member States, and it is an extremely important advance, founded on the principle of non-discrimination between permanent workers and temporary workers.
In it we have included a commitment to transparency - transparency regarding the conditions provided to workers - but also a commitment to confidence between workers and employers.
In 2002, six years ago, I was working very hard as your rapporteur in first reading on this Commission proposal after the social dialogue negotiations of the social partners' fields.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I am speaking today on behalf of my colleague, Liz Lynne, who is the shadow rapporteur for the ALDE Group on this directive, since she cannot be with us today due to problems with flights to Strasbourg.
However, we understand the purpose of temporary work agencies, which is to establish more working places for people and to make the labour market more flexible.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. -Madam President, on behalf of my group, I would also like to welcome this agreement.
This proposal generally ensures equal treatment from day one for workers provided through temporary employment agencies.
I hope we will pass this directive, and I also hope that we will not give it a very long term of implementation. (PL) Madam President, in the context of the debate on the directive concerning temporary workers, I should like to point out that the number of temporary workers in the European Union has increased significantly, especially in recent years.
In particular, we should support the solutions contained in the draft directive concerning equal treatment of temporary workers and other workers regarding status and safety, together with respect for the social standards required of enterprises in the area of equal treatment, in terms of remuneration and working conditions for temporary workers and other employees. (EL) Madam President, temporary workers suffer exploitation at the hands of employers and they need equal treatment and for their security to be defended.
When we come to the second part of the package on the working time directive, I hope that from our part we will also show responsibility and move on. (DE) Madam President, employers, in particular, are taking every opportunity to call for more and more mobility and flexibility on the European labour market.
The final reason is that we have a social partnership agreement, rarely seen in Britain, between the British TUC and the Confederation of British Industry (CBI): that agreement is being translated into law in this vote. (EL) Madam President, I too should like to congratulate not only the Presidency and the Commission, but also the rapporteur and everyone who helped to pass the directive and mark a new achievement for the European Union for the benefit of the citizens.
I should also like to remind the House that a large proportion of temporary workers are women.
We will have other opportunities, over the weeks to come, to show that we are able to make more progress with a social Europe.
I am thinking here, of course, of the Working Time Directive, which is the other strand of the common position adopted in Luxembourg on 9 June.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking my fellow Members for their comments, and the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators and everyone else involved in this debate for the support they have given to me, and equally to the finalisation of this process.
We also want to show, in adopting this directive, that social Europe can move forwards, and that it can have real substance, contrary to what we have sometimes heard from the Commission - not from Mr Špidla, but from other Commissioners.
We can legislate - we can colegislate - on social matters, too, and thus show the members of the Council, who have, for too long, blocked the adoption of this and other legislation, that they need not be afraid of the progress of social Europe, and that, if we can show that Europe is defending citizens and workers, this may also help to bring about a reconciliation between the citizens and the institutions of the Union and to assuage the concerns expressed in Ireland, the Netherlands and my own country, France.
The vote will take place on 22 October 2008.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) Using a directive to establish the rights of European citizens involved in temporary employment in EU countries has been a real success for social Europe.
