The mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, since its inception in 1993, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has indicted 161 people.
Proceedings have been fully concluded against 116 of them, while for a number of other defendants, the criminal procedure is still in progress.
It is the countries in question that have to ensure that the war crimes and crimes against humanity are prosecuted and tried.
In a similar, but somewhat broader, context, we would ask that a good working relationship with the Tribunal and the development of an effective judiciary which also handles crimes against humanity remain assessment criteria for our relations with the countries in the Western Balkans.
The work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) is an essential element in rendering justice, coming to terms with the past and moving forward.
This can be a slow, and at times difficult, process, but the ICTY has made important progress.
Only two of 161 indictees remain at large.
When the ICTY was set up in 1993, the domestic judicial systems in the former Yugoslavia were unprepared for dealing with crimes of this scale.
We are also working with Chief Prosecutor Brammertz on other projects including a regional conference for war crime prosecutors from the Western Balkans.
All in all, the Commission remains fully committed to ICTY and continues to support Mr Brammertz and his dedicated colleagues in efforts to bring to justice those who are responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law and thus we want to support this important work contributing towards reconciliation and the maintenance of peace in the Western Balkans.
Madam President, I should like to extend warm thanks to Mrs Neyts for the completeness of her report.
All countries in the region must lend their full cooperation, and the International Criminal Tribunal should be given the chance to conclude its activities with due care.
Madam President, clearly, the Court in The Hague, with 116 finished cases and much work in the region, can submit a very fine result.
The people that are still on the run should be brought to justice, and all the countries in that region have given their word to the European Union to this effect.
With regard to the deadline of 2010 or 2011, I take the view that we should not be so strict.
Ratko Mladić and Goran Hadžić are still renegades from justice and must be handed in.
We cannot afford to relax these conditions. (NL) Madam President, I should like to bring up a few points in this brief debate.
The work of the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is of eminent importance, not only because it guarantees that those responsible for the war crimes in the Balkans are brought to justice, but also because it serves the public's sense of justice.
During the last visit by the Chief Prosecutor, Mr Brammertz, to Zagreb, in February, where he had gone to ask for the missing documents relating to the use of artillery in 'Operation Storm', which, for the record, resulted in the exodus of 200 000 Serbs and the death of 350 civilians, the Prosecutor demanded Croatia's full cooperation and, although the European Commission has just given the green light to opening Chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights, some European governments will not hear of it, nor will the European Parliament.
The tribunal's work must be fully completed.
Another measure which I feel is crucial to the development of sustainable institutional facilities in the Western Balkans is the creation of a set of regulations and evaluation criteria for judicial systems in these countries in order to support national courts. (PL) Madam President, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has made a significant contribution to the process of reconciliation in the Western Balkans and has helped to bring about the restoration and maintenance of peace in the region.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, in conclusion, I would like briefly to reiterate our full support for the ongoing work of the ICTY as an important part of the healing and reconciliation process in the Western Balkans, now and in the future.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I wish to thank you for a very concise but important debate and congratulate Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck on her report and initiative.
The ICTY is indeed an expression of European values of justice and the rule of law, and therefore this debate is so important.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I wish to thank everybody who contributed to this debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 12 March 2009.
The report in question extols the Tribunal in The Hague which they set up in order to try their victims and exonerate the American and European imperialists of their crimes, a tribunal with fabricated charges, with parodies of trials, which resulted in the murder of the former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic.
