Regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding - C6-0202/2007 -.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 27 June this year the Commission presented a proposal, based on Article 191 of the EC Treaty, which aims to improve and adapt Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 on the status and funding of political parties at European level.
The corresponding resolution was adopted by the European Parliament on 23 March 2006.
Since the political foundations are closely affiliated with the European political parties, it is proposed that they must submit their application for funding through the political party at European level with which they are linked, under the same legal basis as applies to the latter's funding, in other words under Article 191 of the EC Treaty.
A week later, on 24 October 2007, Coreper II reached agreement on two points: firstly, the splitting of the proposal into two legal acts, one regulation based on Article 279 of the EC Treaty containing the provisions amending the Financial Regulation and one regulation containing the other provisions of the proposal based on Article 191 of the EC Treaty, and secondly, consultation of the European Parliament and the Court of Auditors on the amendment of Article 109 of Regulation No 1605/2002 in accordance with Article 279 of the EC Treaty.
The two compromise texts resulting from the split were assessed by the General Affairs Group on 9 November 2007, therefore very recently.
In that event, a Parliament opinion on the amendment of the Financial Regulation should be adopted as soon as possible.
I have always said that if we want to create a European public sphere, then we also need to create more of a European political culture, and this particular issue is absolutely crucial to doing so.
I am happy to say that the Commission and Parliament have always agreed on this issue.
The Commission was able to respond quickly to Parliament's request and our proposal was also strongly supported by Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
In all our 27 Member States, we have parties which stand in the national elections; what we need to do now is to enable these European parties to perform their democratic work at the European level as well.
The first Regulation on the statute and financing of European political parties, which we adopted back in 2004, was a resounding success.
I would also like to thank the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Guy-Quint and Mrs Mathieu, for their valuable input in their reports, which introduces more transparency and more control over the allocation of these resources.
But it is the substance that is more important than the legal base, and I dare even say that it is better to have legal certainty than to face a challenge later on this matter in the courts.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I welcome the work currently under way on sensible regulation of the funding of political parties at European level.
Today in this Chamber, President Sarkozy spoke of European democracy, but across our diverse Member States the common public opinion necessary for representative democracy does not exist.
That must also be their role in the representative institutions in Europe.
You can count on our support. - (EL) Madam President, I am glad that another fellow Member will be listening to the discussion, particularly on this issue, in our beautiful language.
We must reach an agreement sooner rather than later because, if we fail to do so, the only victims in this conflict will be the political parties, who play a vital role in bringing the EU nearer to the citizens and encouraging them to get involved in politics so that they feel part of a common political project and a political future.
The foundations are a vital instrument for extending the action of the political parties and strengthening links to citizens, and they will play a major role in terms of information, debate and political training. (FI) Madam President, our Group is divided on this.
They can use Europarty funds to spread centralised propaganda in the European elections at national level.
The European media are very few in number and small.
The substance in this case is to provide the European political parties with additional resources so that they can fully carry out their political activities and exercise their competences and so that they can fully involve all our citizens in this fascinating process of European construction.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, the Council has just stated that there is broad agreement on the content of this Regulation.
So those who oppose also play a very important role in this Chamber in the European political debate.
The debate is closed.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) I feel that the Commission's recommendation is important and shows the way forward.
The European political parties play an important role in politics at European level.
