Preparation of the EU/Russia summit (26-27 June 2008) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on preparations for the EU-Russia summit (26-27 June 2008).
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) It is my great pleasure to present preparations for the twenty-first EU-Russia summit which will take place at the end of this month, on 26 and 27 June, in the Western Siberian town of Khanty-Mansiisk.
The Presidency believes that the upcoming Summit is the right opportunity for both sides to open a new chapter in mutual relations.
In particular, we should be ready to make use of the potential positive momentum that the recent election of the Russian President Medvedjev could bring to EU-Russia relations.
The main objective for the Summit is obviously to launch negotiations on the new framework Agreement with Russia.
We are very pleased that the Council of 26 May adopted the EU negotiating mandate for the new Agreement.
Under the third common space, which is External Security, the EU will underline that more concrete actions for further cooperation in the Common Neighbourhood are needed.
At the same time, we should welcome Russia's participation in the EUFOR Chad operation, and agree on further cooperation within the framework of the European Security and Defence Policy.
With this I shall end and I shall listen to your debate with interest. (Applause) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, with a new Russian President in office, as has just been said, and also with our mandate finally in place to negotiate a new agreement with Russia, I think we have an opportunity to redefine this essential partnership with our largest neighbour based on a number of common interests.
The launch of negotiations will be the centrepiece of the first EU-Russia Summit with President Medvedev in Khanty-Mansiysk at the end of June.
The new agreement between the EU and Russia gives us the chance to update the legal framework underpinning our relationship so as to reflect the substantial changes in both Russia and the European Union, because we have changed a lot since the current partnership and cooperation agreement was negotiated in the 1990s.
I think we always have to look to what he has said, for example in an important Financial Times interview where he said he wants more rule of law in Russia and he also wants a greater modernisation of the Russian economy.
We are often close partners with Russia in tackling international challenges, for example as members of the Middle East Quartet - most probably we will again be in Berlin next week - but we also need, as our colleague has said, to see a Russia that pursues a positive agenda with its other neighbours; so it is true that we are concerned that recent Russian moves in Georgia could undermine stability in the region.
In conclusion, the EU-Russia Summit is a chance to embark on a constructive relationship with the new administration, defending our values and promoting our common interests.
Priorities for the summit must include energy security as a reliable trading partner for oil and gas but also, with Russia's imminent accession to the WTO, legal certainty for Western natural resource companies in their foreign direct investments in Russia.
We also hope that, with a new President in Russia and, finally, a mandate for negotiations on a new contractual arrangement with Russia, we will now enter into a more positive period of cooperation with the Russians.
Of course, we also want to use the new possibilities to continue - and maybe to intensify - to be partners in the international arena.
We also have to work on creating a secure and transparent framework for energy relations, including, of course, trade, but also improving the investment climate in Russia, where admittance and entry into the WTO could be very helpful.
We have already talked about Transnistria and the Caucusus, but we also have to look at how we can find a kind of compromise in the near future on the issue of Kosovo.
A certain amount of information on what this policy may be like can be gleaned from President Medvedev's speech in Berlin.
The latter envisages engaging in political activity in a significantly broader area stretching from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
It is rather more specific, but urgent, and concerns the relationship between Russia and Georgia.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I am slightly irritated that in the speeches we have heard about the negotiations and the forthcoming discussions, very little has been said about the fact that Europe does not have a united or unanimous position on many issues which will arise in what, to my mind, are important talks with President Medvedev.
This applies especially to the whole area of energy policy.
In my opinion, it is a serious problem: we talk very frequently about our dependency on oil and gas imports from Russia but we have not devised a common strategy on this issue.
Instead, the large Member States, individual Member States, are pursuing their own strategies in this area and no genuinely united European strategy on security of supply has been forged in relation to the agreements with Russia.
The same applies to another very sensitive area as well.
I welcome the fact that apart from the issue of Georgia, the other conflicts have also been mentioned, so that when we talk about Georgia, we also include Abkhazia and Ossetia.
Similar goings-on are taking place in the south of Europe, in connection with Gazprom's next venture, namely the South Stream gas pipeline.
I earnestly hope that the forthcoming EU-Russia summit will be an opportunity to demonstrate the European Union's solidarity in the face of Russia's hegemony in the energy sector.
This could be beneficial to both parties but let us not be too optimistic.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, 'Russia is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma,' Churchill once said.
The European Union has agreed on what it wants from Russia.
The Economist admits that the Baltic pipe was conceived in secret.
The partnership between the EU and Russia is uneasy.
Whatever the approach, the EU needs to cooperate with Russia, and vice versa. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Wojciechowski, the previous speaker, has already said, relations with Russia are extremely delicate and fraught with ambiguity.
I think that the misunderstandings that may exist and persist with Russia, and which it is hoped will be cleared up at the EU-Russia Summit on 14 November, are also partly our responsibility.
I am sure that just like Chancellor Merkel, the Slovenian Presidency will represent Europe's interests and that Chancellor Merkel herself, in Sochi, will champion human rights and political interests.
That needs to be made very clear as well. (DE) Mr President, there are many of our fellow Members in this House who come from countries with a bad experience of the Soviet Union.
When it comes to energy issues, we must ensure that we find our own resources; we need a Nabucco pipeline, for example, so that we are in a stronger bargaining position vis-à-vis Russia.
My Group and I therefore do not rule out the possibility that we need both these things - a clear and unequivocal position, and an independent policy - so that from this strong position, we are able to engage in negotiations and talks with Russia.
The summit may be crucial in deciding whether the Nord Stream gas pipeline from Russia to Germany via the Baltic will become a reality.
Germany, for its part, must first recognise that the project affects all the EU's Member States around the Baltic Sea and is a common EU matter.
The gas pipeline must not jeopardise the EU internal market.
In the talks it must demonstrate the unity of the Member States and its solidarity as a force.
If we want to improve our relations, we must treat our partner seriously.
Mr President, the negotiations will not be easy.
The Russia of June 2008 is very different from the Russia of June 2000, for example.
I believe we need a very active dialogue in order to engage Russia in finding solutions for the problems in the region, to convince it to support the European Union efforts to ensure long-term stability, including through the EULEX mission in Kosovo.
I would like the upcoming summit to deal also with the role of Russia in the Black Sea region and state that it is up to us whether the 'divide and rule' policy will apply or not. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, in his inaugural speech President Medvedev declared his loyalty to democracy, saying that he considered restoring the rule of law to be his most important duty.
Our expectations are modest, but we are open and optimistic.
We regard Russia as a partner, but they too must decide whether they consider us to be a partner or a set of rivals to be turned against each other and played off against each other.
Thank you. (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, Russia's Ministry for Foreign Affairs has drawn up a comprehensive strategy on how to make use of its fellow countrymen in the European Union, particularly in the Baltic States, in order to strengthen Russia's political and economic influence.
President Medvedev has just signed a decree abolishing entry visas to Russia for non-citizens of Latvia and Estonia, which in essence recognises them as Russian citizens.
The planned pragmatism of the resolution has, however, allowed us to forget our principles, even though in practice all economic growth in Russia is based on our payments for energy resources. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union - by which I mean the Council - should clearly define its idea of relations with Russia.
It should be clear whether negotiations concerning, for example, gas supplies, Kosovo, freedom of speech and human rights are going to be conducted by individual Member States separately or whether there is a chance to achieve a consensus, at least at a basic level, on some common interests.
The most important starting point in aspiring to better relations is unity amongst the EU Member States.
These priorities are especially relevant in the field of economics and energy, where the principles of transparency and reciprocity can be the only basis for long-term cooperation, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, I have before me a study produced this year on Russian businessmen.
Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner spoke of the importance of getting the relationship between the EU and Russia right.
I think it is worth repeating our disappointment in this context.
The British Council offices in St Petersburg and Ekaterinburg were closed, against all normal diplomatic practice.
Mr President, the next European Union-Russia summit will take place between a Russian Federation on the rise - be it only provisionally - and an EU not only affected by the Irish 'no' on the Lisbon Treaty but, moreover, by the lack of a clear vision on how to get out of this crisis.
The creation of an integrated market, with transparent and non-discriminatory rules, will enhance and diversify the economic and trade relations between Russia and the European Union.
All of the analysts, most recently Mark Leonard in an interesting study, stress that the absence of a common position is damaging to the Union... (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) Mr President, the imminent summit resolves the deadlock that has lasted more than a year and a half, and will hopefully bring about substantive progress in relations between the European Union and Russia.
The European Union needs Russia, but let there be no mistake, Russia needs Europe at least as much, as an economic partner and as an energy consumer.
Thank you for your attention. (DE) Mr President, I also take the view that the pipeline between Germany and Russia should only be built if the other EU Member States concerned agree.
Mr Medvedev said in Berlin that he wants to see an improvement in relations.
The forthcoming summit between the European Union and Russia has generated strong emotions, as agreements of great importance for both the European Union and Russia are to be negotiated there.
Amongst other issues, the Union must strive to ensure energy security for Europe.
I am confident that Poland will in future years help to develop a positive relationship between Russia and the European Union. (CS) This EU-Russia summit will be the first for Russian President Dmitri Medvedev.
Actually, in the long run this partnership is more important for Russia itself.
In the area of international and trade relations, Russia also needs a partner that is more stable and reliable than China or Iran.
The European Union presents no threat to Russia.
In this context, Russia must show the way, stop its petty attempts at dividing Europe and treat the Union as a collective entity.
In the discussions on the new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and Russia, the focus should be on the issues that are important in the long term. (SK) The EU-Russia strategic partnership is an important factor in the area of diversification and security of imports of energy sources into the EU.
Finally, I would like to express my fears, like my colleague Mr Elmar Brok did, that following the unsuccessful Irish referendum on the Lisbon Treaty the EU's position as a strategic partner may be weakened, given that the Lisbon Treaty is the document in which the EU's competences in the area of the common energy policy are enshrined. (FI) Mr President, hopefully we will soon conclude the cooperation agreement between the European Union and Russia.
Mr President, I raise an issue on behalf of Mrs Marina Litvinenko, whose husband, Alexander Litvinenko, was murdered in London in December 2006.
The murder weapon was polonium-210, a radioactive material, 97% of which is manufactured in the Avangard nuclear facility in Russia.
The new Russia, as many say, is repeatedly acting like a terrorist state, and at the summit in Khanty-Mansiysk the EU must call on President Medvedev to put a stop to such practices.
I think it was Mr Severin who said - I shall quote this in English - 'Russia is a divisive issue in the European Union'.
This Presidency is determined to cultivate dialogue towards enhancing this partnership and cooperation, a dialogue that includes all issues of interest to both sides, including those over which we do not agree and about which I spoke in my introductory speech.
Here I could not agree more.
The area where this has been especially highlighted and most frequently highlighted is the area of energy.
Allow me to conclude with the following remark: the Slovenian Presidency is delighted that its Presidency is ending with the EU-Russian Federation summit, a summit which this time, owing to certain new circumstances, a new president in Russia and the mandate that we finally succeeded in obtaining after lengthy negotiations, promises much, and I hope that these expectations will be fulfilled.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think that the key in our relationship is mutual interdependence, which many speakers have mentioned.
However, it is also important that Russia should be a partner in the solution of problems and not a partner for problems, and that is the other part of it.
Given our growing interdependence on imports, particularly gas, the volume of Russian gas that we would like to buy is likely to grow, so we need a clear policy of diversification.
It is very important that Russia becomes a member of the WTO.
In addition, Russia has also shown great interest in being a member of the Seventh Research and Development Framework Programme, which perhaps in future will be a very important sign for SIGMA.
