Mr President, I want to mention Amendment 3, where we criticised a number of Commissioners for having downplayed long-standing requests by the European Parliament to propose legislation for better supervision of the financial market.
I also want to mention paragraph 20, where Parliament reiterates its respect for the result of the Irish referendum and for the results of the ratification procedures in the other Member States.
The PPE-DE Group has offered a solution to the problem of damaging industry whilst advancing the climate change mitigation.
That is why the European Council should respect the outcome of the Irish referendum.
This incompatibility is a major problem for us. (DE) Mr President, as we all know, temporary agency work in the European Union is undergoing an enormous increase.
This would be in the interests of Europe as a business location, and particularly of workers, and would prevent distortion of competition for undertakings. (PL) Mr President, any amendment to this directive, no matter how relevant, would mean significantly protracting the legislative process, and leave temporary workers without legal protection for a considerable period more.
This is a directive which is many years overdue.
The European Parliament has a vital role to play in reducing the availability of inappropriate and illegal materials and increasing public awareness of online dangers.
I therefore welcome this report and EU efforts to safeguard our children.
Our aims must be as follows: zero tolerance in cases of child abuse, tough penalties for the culprits, and maximum protection for children using the Internet.
This European Parliament report is very important as it sends a very strong signal concerning the protection of the weakest members of our society, our children. (SK) The internet is a great help but, at the same time, a great danger, especially for children.
Children are much more computer-savvy than their parents and therefore adults are often unaware of the huge number of snares which children in particular may encounter in several hours of surfing the internet.
I welcome this report and I have voted in favour of it.
I support the establishment of contact points in the individual EU countries, where it will be possible to report illegal activities relating to internet safety.
Matti Juhani Saari in Finland placed on the internet, including the YouTube website, videos which showed him shooting a pistol on a firing range.
Ten young people were later murdered by this gun-toting lunatic in a school in the Finnish town of Kauhajoki.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that through this programme, we will manage to reduce risk levels and to ensure that young people will not have access to such videos on the internet. (CS) I have supported the Angelilli report because I believe that it will help in the fight against child abuse on the internet.
This will be a very useful instrument for cases involving the purchase of images through peer-to-peer group communications, as it will allow verification of whether or not a given image has already appeared on the internet and whether investigations have already been carried out in respect of that image, thereby avoiding unnecessary duplications of investigative efforts.
Experience to date shows that the safety of children on the internet can only be ensured on the basis of a multi-layered approach which includes the involvement of children, families, schools, all telecommunications operators, internet service providers and government bodies.
I firmly believe that the programme on internet safety can contribute towards this. (CS) Allow me to add to Monday's debate on protecting children using the Internet and other communication technologies.
For the sake of our children, harmonisation in this area should be our priority, whether we like it or not. (NL) Mr President, I emphatically voted in favour of this report.
It is estimated that 9 out of 10 children between the ages of 8 and 16 come into contact with pornographic material on the Internet.
Quite apart from the risk of Internet paedophiles and porn traders, there are also online casinos with their aggressive marketing techniques.
Particularly young children are not always aware of the dangers involved.
I voted for the report because I believe it to be exceptionally important.
Resolving the wide variety of problems that arise when children use communications technologies in a single document is difficult.
The point, now that we have a common European Programme, is for each Member State to have its own national programme in this regard.
Such activities are criminal.
I have taken a particular interest in this report as it covers an issue that directly affects many of my constituents.
We have more timeshare owners in the UK than any other European country.
The UK timeshare industry is worth approximately EUR 157 million per year, and this directive constitutes an important move forward in eliminating unscrupulous agents who cause problems for consumers and bring legitimate operators into disrepute.
These new simplified rules will ensure that consumers are equally well protected across the EU, while creating a level playing field in the market for timeshare and other popular holiday-related products. (CS) I am delighted that, despite the spectre of politics, agreement has been reached on the harmonisation of legislation protecting all Europeans who are planning a holiday abroad and who wish to rent accommodation abroad without risk.
The free movement of services is one of the benefits of the European Union and Member States must pay rather more attention to ensuring that both employees and entrepreneurs are better informed concerning the principles of the posted workers directive as it exists today.
In democratic societies, rights must be clamoured for unstintingly and not undermined.
The amendment calls for all Member States to respect the result of the referendum in Ireland.
This will underpin the rights of workers and shows that the social heart of Europe is still beating.
Amendment 16 calls on Member States to challenge the judgments of the European Court of Justice.
The report is very clear in stating that the legislation is not sufficient and we need to provide better balance between the rights of workers and the freedom to provide services, but the answer is not a profound revision of existing EU Treaties, as was called for in Amendment 24.
The answer is to improve the legislation, which is why we voted against Amendment 24 and Amendment 16, which was both unhelpful and unnecessary because it does not deal with the legislative imperative. (NL) Mr President, I voted against the Andersson report, not only because the text pertains to labour law - which falls within the remit of the Member States - but also because it makes reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Treaty of Lisbon again and again.
It is, of course, not the first report to commit this crime, but it shows a deep contempt for the Irish voters who have nullified the Treaty and, in fact, for all voters in Europe who have not had the opportunity to express their views about the Treaty of Lisbon in a democratic way.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a Council regulation amending the regulation of 2003 as regards jurisdiction and introducing rules concerning applicable law in matrimonial matters, based on the report by my German fellow Member, Mrs Gebhardt.
In view of the heightened mobility of citizens within the European Union which has led to an increased number of 'international' couples, in other words couples where the spouses are of different nationalities or reside in different Member States or in a Member State of which at least one spouse is not a national, and owing to the high divorce rate in the European Union, it was essential to regulate the applicable law and jurisdiction in matrimonial matters which affects a growing number of citizens each year.
For these reasons, we have abstained on the final vote.
Today I voted against the resolution of the Council of Europe meeting in Brussels, because I do not agree with the position of the majority of Members on at least two of the issues discussed at the EU Summit.
I would like to point out that forced solutions are a threat to industries and consumers in many countries, including Poland.
in writing. - I and all my colleagues in the Irish political party to which we belong, Fine Gael, voted for and want, as soon as possible, a clear, unambiguous ratification of the Lisbon Treaty by the Irish Government.
Clear blue political water is needed between the outcome of the vote of 12 June and any decision on a second attempt at ratification.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the European Council (15 and 16 October 2008) because I agree with the decision to intervene in the financial markets.
in writing. - (FR) I am delighted by Parliament's support for the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum in the context of the vote on the resolution on the European Council of 15-16 October 2008, for which I voted in favour.
This pact forms an integral part of the path towards a true common immigration and asylum policy which upholds fundamental rights and human dignity, as defended by the European Parliament.
in writing. - The resolution on the European Council held on 15-16 October 2008 addresses a number of important issues, such as the impact of the global financial crisis on the economic exit strategy from the financial crisis, the improvement of regulations to strengthen the EU regulatory and supervisory framework, energy and climate change and energy security issues.
This could feed into a security fund, for example, to support banks in times of crisis.
There can be no solutions which benefit people within the framework of competitiveness and the deregulated action of capital, which the EU and the governments are strengthening even further with measures to provide state support for monopolies, while stepping up their anti-grassroots attack to get the capitalist system out of its crisis.
in writing. - (PT) The European Council on 15 and 16 October was notable for its response to the financial crisis.
in writing. - The rejection of Amendment 4 is a disappointment.
Member States must now adopt the necessary legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions to comply with the directive within three years of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
The directive is also aimed at establishing a suitable framework for the use of temporary agency work with a view to contributing effectively to the creation of jobs and to the development of flexible forms of working, which I believe to be a particularly important solution in this time of crisis.
in writing. - I welcome the adoption of the Temporary Agency Workers Directive that will, finally, give equal treatment at work to some of our most vulnerable workers.
Temporary agency work contributes to a dynamic and flexible modern economy and can often be a bridge for the long-term unemployed to get back in the labour market.
This is great news for the estimated 1.3 million British workers who will be protected by this legislation and serves as an excellent demonstration that our European common market is a social market that combines protection of workers' rights with flexible labour markets.
in writing. - (PT) We recognise that the adoption of the Council common position on temporary work and temporary employment agencies holds some importance for workers in the various EU countries where legislation is very fragile and where the biggest and most serious abuses occur in the use of this type of work.
It is therefore vital that equal treatment is recognised for workers placed by temporary employment agencies, even in terms of wages, in the user undertaking.
in writing. - (SV) Many of the amendments on which the European Parliament is adopting positions in this report have much to commend them.
The amendments relate, however, to issues that should be dealt with at national level and not by the EU institutions.
We have therefore voted against these amendments.
Today there are wide discrepancies between national legislation on temporary work in Member States.
However, temporary work is playing a growing role in all countries of the European Union, and the labour market is developing dynamically.
It is estimated that throughout the European Union, some three million people work as temporary workers for some 20 000 enterprises.
in writing. - (LT) At present, there are great differences between national legal acts regulating temporary work.
Temporary work is on the increase in all of the countries of the European Union, although this group of workers varies greatly from country to country.
in writing. - I support the Directive on temporary agency work.
in writing. - I welcome the adoption of this report at second reading.
Temporary employment agencies employ some three million people in the European Union.
They are estimated to provide services valued at EUR 75 billion.
The Member States are required to ban any obstacle to their incorporation and business and to safeguard their right to a fee for their 'services', in other words, the ransom for their slave trade.
As we enter a period of recession, it is even more important that flexible employment opportunities are increased for our own citizens and that small businesses, in particular, are helped and not burdened.
Given that the challenges in this area have been further aggravated by the emergence of new technologies and services, the proposed new programme by the Commission to better protect children from the new risks to which they are exposed is essential, and I agree to the proposed actions and measures in full.
I have voted in favour of the Commission's proposal on the Safer Internet programme which, from 1 January, for five years, thanks to EUR 55 million in funding, aims to protect children using the Internet and other communication technologies, such as mobile phones.
This commitment will support public awareness activities and the fight against illicit content and harmful behaviour, in order to promote a safer environment.
in writing. - (SV) Initiatives and measures to prevent children from being exposed to crime when using the Internet are extremely important and necessary.
For that reason, we have voted in favour of Mrs Angelilli's report on establishing a multiannual Community programme on protecting children using the Internet and other communication technologies.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the establishment of a multiannual Community programme (2009-2013) which aims to increase public awareness as well as educate children about safer use of the Internet, particularly in terms of access to illegal content, grooming and cyber bullying.
The vast majority of these children acknowledged that they have already accidentally accessed pornographic images.
It is vital that we adopt, as quickly as possible, all the measures that seem necessary to protect our children from the growing dangers to which they are exposed on the increasing number of sites containing content harmful to children, particularly child pornography.
This is why the report needs to be taken completely seriously by the Council and Commission as we do not want to reach a situation where our own children are leading the society of the future towards crime, violence and pornography.
in writing. - (SV) There are now hundreds of simple, accessible and inexpensive computer programs that efficiently prevent children stumbling on unsuitable Internet sites.
The rapporteur is very unclear in the way she proposes that the entire EUR 55 million of European taxpayers money should be appropriated to an EU propaganda programme which, in our view, would be unnecessary, expensive and ineffective.
in writing. - (PL) The ability to use computers and internet access is growing with the spread of the new technologies.
That is why I am pleased to vote in favour of providing funding totalling EUR 55 million for 2009-2013 for the Safe Internet Programme, which was part of the proposal that was put to the vote.
in writing. - (LT) With the rapid expansion of new technologies and the growth of computer literacy, more and more children and young people are using the internet.
Minors are often exposed to websites on the internet, which encourage harmful conduct, child pornography, foster underage prostitution, advertise diets causing anorexia or incite suicide.
According to Interpol data, the number of new images of child pornography on the internet grows every year.
We must solve the problem of child safety on the internet at all levels, involving children, their families, schools and the whole of society.
The European Commission's new Safer Internet Programme proposes allocating EUR 55 million to the fight against conduct on the internet which is harmful to children and young people.
in writing. - Abuse and exploitation of children, via the internet, mobile phones and other technologies, is abhorrent and unacceptable, but measures to protect them - and to punish those who harm or seek to harm them - need to be taken at national level and between national governments on a co-operative basis.
in writing. - (FI) I voted in favour of Mrs Angelilli's report because one of the most fundamental and durable structures in the European values base is our duty to protect innocent souls, that is to say, children.
Measures at Community level are justified in this area.
in writing. - (FR) According to the Internet Watch Foundation, an English organisation which fights the possession and dissemination of child pornography images, the online sexual exploitation of children for commercial purposes is a growing sector which is low-risk and highly profitable.
in writing. - We welcome the report aimed at creating a safer online environment for children.
It is our responsibility to protect our children from dangerous material containing child pornography and violence.
First and foremost, we need better co-ordination between national legal systems.
in writing. - I fully support the need for the EUR 55 million budget to ensure that children, many of whom spend at least three hours a day on the internet, are better protected from unsafe user content.
The Internet is not monitored, yet children and young people are rarely aware of the dangers lying in wait for them there.
in writing. - (PT) Children's safety in relation to online communications systems is fundamental given that, as new technologies become more widespread and computer literacy increases, children are increasingly being exposed to the risks of illegal content and harmful behaviour such as harassment, child pornography, online grooming with a view to sexual abuse, cyber bullying, and incitement to self-harm, anorexia and suicide.
I wonder whether all the concerns expressed in this report will be taken into account in the actions of the Portuguese Government.
in writing. - (FR) The Internet is an integral part of our children's everyday lives.
The European Safer Internet Programme, with a budget of EUR 55 million, aims to raise awareness of the dangers of the Internet, not just among children but also among their parents and teachers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of Mrs Angelilli's report on protecting children using the Internet and other communication technologies.
in writing. - This directive proposes new measures to promote carbon conscious driving.
With regard to transport, we need to focus on this sector for reduction and to raise awareness amongst the public.
This is beneficial at all levels: private costs in addition to national costs.
Action at Community level is therefore needed in order to encourage the investment needed for the manufacture of vehicles that are more energy-efficient and less polluting not least because, in the long term, the cost of this type of alternative will be lower.
I agree with the objective of this directive: to promote the market introduction of clean and energy-efficient vehicles and thereby contribute to energy efficiency in transport by reducing fuel consumption, to climate protection by reducing CO2 emissions, and to improving air quality by reducing pollutant emissions.
The promotion of 'clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles' is, from a technical point of view, an essential environmental protection measure, because emissions from conventional vehicles contribute to climate change and atmospheric pollution in town centres, with serious repercussions on public health.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Dan Jørgensen's report on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles because I feel that industry must be encouraged to invest in the development of vehicles with low energy consumption and low greenhouse gas emissions.
We should also remember to incorporate the use of 'clean' vehicles in our activities related to the climate change package.
in writing. - Being in the midst of the financial markets crises, it is easy for us policy makers to concentrate fully on the current problem and forget or disregard the aims and other initiatives of the European Union.
in writing. - (RO) This directive introduces a harmonised methodology for clean and energy-efficient vehicle procurement for a sustainable public transport service.
The explicit requirement is for energy consumption, carbon dioxide and pollutant emissions to be taken into consideration when road transport vehicles are purchased by public authorities and by operators providing services as part of a contract with a public authority, as well as for purchases of road transport vehicles for providing public passenger transport services.
The new proposal only refers to motor vehicles intended for public transport and the public authorities responsible for providing these services.
I believe that the new proposal will help instil greater awareness among local decision makers and make them take more robust action to protect the environment.
Pollution in large cities can also be reduced both through promoting public transport and, in particular, by having a clean public transport system.
in writing. - This directive deals with regulations on marketing authorisations for medicinal products.
There are currently over 140 med-tech companies in Ireland, which accommodate 26 000 jobs.
We also recognise the need for further harmonisation of Member States' national provisions and European regulations to reduce administrative burden and to simplify the system regulating changes, such as allowing a single application for one or more identical changes.
in writing. - (PT) The current way of managing variations is proving increasingly inefficient and is no longer satisfactory either for the authorities or for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole.
This situation causes problems in various areas: public health, the internal market, legal and practical applications.
I agree with the amendments proposed in the compromise position as they emphasise the need to simplify and reconcile administrative procedures, allow the possibility of submitting a single application for one or more identical changes and highlight the need to apply the subsidiarity principle.
in writing. - (PL) Given the lack of harmonisation at Community level, variations to purely domestic marketing authorisations are subject to national legislation.
In some Member States, the requirements relating to national marketing authorisations are analogous to those relating to variations in marketing authorisations.
All medicinal products, regardless of the marketing authorisation criteria, should be subject to the same evaluation criteria and to the same administrative measures when their marketing authorisation differs.
The inclusion of other products in the timeshare directive, such as holidays on ships or in clubs or caravans, guarantees legal cover and new sources of profit for capital.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Manders report on the protection of consumers in respect of timeshare, as the compromise reached with the Council on this subject offers greater protection for the rights and interests of European consumers.
I feel that better regulation of the sector will benefit not only consumers but also European tourism.
in writing. - (PT) This report sets out a series of proposals which we accept in the main, bearing in mind the need to reinforce the consumers' right to information on holiday products.
Furthermore, the period during which consumers may withdraw from contracts without any charge is extended, particularly where they have not been provided with the necessary information.
in writing. - (PT) Many consumer complaints have confirmed the serious problems encountered with timeshares, which create imbalances in the market.
The development of the market in terms of demand and the significant development of new products, marketed in a similar way, have created substantial problems for consumers and businesses.
In this way, the uncertainties existing in the market can be better combated and a more stable and transparent environment created, thus providing consumers with more and better information.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and Australia on the processing and transfer of European Union-sourced Passenger Name Records (PNR) data by air carriers to the Australian customs service.
in writing. - (PT) Despite being a backward step, the European Parliament's position has the merit of drawing attention to the unacceptable agreements between the EU and third countries with regard to the processing and transfer of data contained in the Passenger Name Records (PNR) of air carriers, on the pretext of the 'fight against terrorism'.
The fact that the report does not dare to demand the revocation of the agreement or its reciprocity is proof of the fact that any superficial protests about it are for the sake of appearances only.
in writing. - The European Court of Justice ruling in the Laval, Ruffert and Luxembourg cases has demonstrated that it is necessary to clarify that economic freedoms, as established in the Treaties, should be interpreted in such a way as not to infringe upon the exercising of fundamental social rights as recognised in the Member States and by Community law.
The situation might lead to workers in host countries feeling pressured by low wage competition.
I want to join my colleagues in their initiative to introduce consistent implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive in all Member States.
The establishment of a legal framework for transnational collective agreements will certainly be a step forward and, needless to say, an important one to take.
in writing. - British Conservatives support the right of workers to strike, but also the right of workers not to strike should they so choose.
EC law and the treaties should have their strongest representatives in the European Parliament.
I am very pleased, however, that the European Parliament has adopted a position in favour of the Swedish model and our collective agreements.
in writing. - (PT) The resolution adopted by a majority of the European Parliament on the unacceptable decisions of the European Court of Justice in the Laval, Rüffert and Viking cases is wholly inadequate.
It is not enough to recognise that the freedom to provide services is not superior to fundamental rights, in particular, the right of trade unions to take industrial action, especially since this is a constitutional right in several Member States.
in writing. - I supported the Andersson report on the challenges posed to collective agreements in the Union by the series of recent decisions of the European Court of Justice.
These rulings give precedence to the freedom to provide services and the freedom to establish businesses over the defence of national workers' interests and rights against social dumping.
They represent a backdoor reinstatement of the first version of the Bolkenstein Directive, where the law of the country of origin (social law, labour law, salaries and so on) applied to workers going to provide a service in another Member State, regardless of the legislation or collective agreements in force in the latter.
in writing. - (SV) The Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the right of centre parties have wholeheartedly supported all of the EU's treaty changes.
In this way, the EU has become a threat to labour market regulations developed through negotiations and legislation that are firmly anchored in Swedish society.
Secondly, the EU's primary law concerning the internal market (Article 49) takes precedence over the provisions of the Posting of Workers Directive.
The European Court of Justice can therefore still come to the same conclusion as in the Laval case.
The EU must not be given tasks that the Member States can take care of themselves, and the labour market really is a matter that should fall to them.
The June List therefore recommends a Swedish exemption from EU labour market legislation in order to guarantee that the European Court of Justice cannot, in future, control the Swedish labour market.
in writing. - (LT) The Temporary Agency Workers Directive is important in our drive to legalise the free movement of services and workers throughout the Community.
Not all Member States are adhering to the requirements of the directive.
The decisions made by the ECJ in the "Laval” and other similar cases are criticised and even questioned in the report and amendments.
If the directive is not working in some countries as it should, then the Community Members are responsible for this, as they are failing to put the directive's regulations into practice or are applying them inappropriately in national law.
The European Commission should observe whether EU directives are transferred to national law correctly and whether national laws are in keeping with the essence and spirit of the directives.
We want, on the one hand, to prevent social dumping in order to protect workers, whether they are posted or not, and thereby have a balanced internal market, and, on the other, to do everything we can to open up our economic borders a little more through the massive immigration of job seekers and people.
The rapporteur Jan Andersson points out that some judgments of the European Court of Justice may offend some citizens' sense of equality and respect for the labour market.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament demanded that current EU legislation - what is known as the Posting of Workers Directive - be torn up in order to guarantee that Sweden is able to retain its collective agreements.
When 27 Member States are in agreement, it goes without saying that it is inconceivable that Sweden alone should pass legislation that is precisely to our own liking.
Since Mr Andersson and Parliament accepted my proposal not to tear up the Posting of Workers Directive until national investigations had clarified that this really was necessary, I considered that I could nonetheless vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - I thank our rapporteur, Jan Andersson, for his report on this very important subject.
The Viking and Laval judgments are an attack on trade unions and workers' rights.
in writing. - (DA) The rulings of the European Court of Justice in the Vaxholm/Viking Line/Rüffert/Luxembourg cases have clearly taken the side of the internal market and the right of establishment at the cost of the rights of workers, including the right to strike to avoid social dumping.
If a majority in the European Parliament really wanted to defend the interests of workers it would require fundamental changes to the EU Treaties, in the form of a legally binding social protocol, for example, which would set the basic rights of workers above the internal market and the right of establishment.
However, this amendment by the GUE/NGL Group was also rejected.
It is along these lines that the European parties who only see one way forward are spreading the dangerous illusion among the workers that the EU can also acquire a 'social face' and that the EU and capital can acquire social awareness through 'social protection clauses'.
in writing. - (SV) I have voted against the report.
I would, however, like to emphasise the need in this context for set conditions to be met by the Vietnamese Government.
in writing. - We fully support the respect for human rights and democratic principles, as outlined in the EU-Vietnam Cooperation Agreement, and believe that there is a need for improvement by Vietnam in this regard.
Furthermore, Vietnam must cooperate with the United Nations on the subject of these rights and freedoms.
