I am glad to note that the strategy proposed by the Commission in its communication of 23 October was endorsed by the Council last week.
In East Africa, a stepping-stone agreement has been initialled with the East African Community: Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Tanzania.
In the Southern African Development Community, we have initialled a stepping-stone agreement with Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and Mozambique.
Regarding the Pacific region, we are working in parallel on an umbrella agreement for the region as a whole and specific agreements on market access to safeguard the immediate interests of those countries which account for the region's trade with the European Union.
The signatories must benefit from a preference system at least as favourable as before any EPA signature.
The message in the Kigali Declaration by members of parliament in ACP states and in Europe must be understood.
The date of 31 December is not as fatal a blow as the one you dealt.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the ALDE Group backed the request from the leader of the Socialist Group to postpone the vote, in an attempt to reach a broader agreement on the text of the resolution.
EPAs are an important tool of development, regional integration and poverty reduction.
EU action in this globalised world of ours must pursue these goals.
The second big mistake was the way in which the negotiations were conducted.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission's negotiating strategy was completely wrong; in fact, it was a catastrophe.
The global trade with ACP countries has decreased.
The situation must change.
Subsequently, the EU and the ACP could work together to ensure that there is no opposition or challenge in the WTO.
Additionally, OCTs next to ACP countries must also be given a special focus in terms of respect for the association agreements which already link them to the EU by virtue of this Article.
The agreement which you proposed, in the form of a two-step approach, must also guarantee that no one is left out, so that ultimately, we are genuinely moving in the right direction, which is still not guaranteed today.
As I said in my introductory statement, we are working in a pragmatic and flexible way.
We are being not only open but also very constructive.
The strategy the Commission proposed, and I tried to describe, was fully confirmed by the Council - all 27 countries - and, in this spirit of partnership and this constructive manner, we will continue.
We not only have in mind, but support very actively, the least developed countries.
I think that is all I can say for now, either in response to questions or by way of confirmation, but I am sure that this House will come back to this point in the coming weeks and months, because this is also about the timing of our agreements.
The vote will take place on 12 December 2007.
The EU is the most important trading partner for most ACP countries.
The European Union should be fully supportive of the development agenda that shall accompany any EPA agreement.
