Future global architecture of financial markets and EU economic recovery plan (debate) We welcome students from the European University of Rome who are present in the gallery.
The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council and Commission on the future global architecture of financial markets and EU economic recovery plan - B6-0487/2008) and - B6-0488/2008).
Mr President, Mr Alumnia, Mr Novelli, Mr Barroso, a short while ago, we were told that the time had come for the Commission to nudge Member States.
If such is the Commission's strategy, you are welcome here in Parliament, and you will have our full support in the implementation of such a strategy.
With regard to the international financial architecture, the G20 met and defined future deadlines.
I therefore would like the Council to tell me how it intends to implement its proposals, in particular with regard to combating the non-cooperative nature of certain jurisdictions and defining the role of the IMF in relation to other international financial institutions.
But with regard to the plan itself, I would like to make three comments.
The coordination of economic policies in this critical phase cannot merely comprise submission by Member States of recovery plans initially discussed by their governments then subsequently assessed by the Commission.
Secondly, I am amazed to see how no reference is made in this document to the prospect of a bounce-back, which I know is incompatible with the Treaty in its current state, but neither is reference made any longer to the idea circulating here and there, in my opinion quite rightly, of possible pooling of the borrowings of Member States in the euro zone.
It is now charged with many tasks, but we must monitor the way in which the banks themselves implement these facilities and tools, which are now being proposed once again since SMEs are obliged to use the banking system in order to access them.
We would like to welcome back our President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Novelli, who was one of our Members between 1999 and 2002, if I remember rightly.
The forecast published by the Commission at the beginning of November, shows a considerable drop in economic growth in the European Union, which is expected to be 1.4% in 2008, whereas only in 2007 it was 2.9%.
The Heads of State of the euro zone countries met on 12 October and for the first time agreed on a concerted action plan, whose principles were approved by the European Council on 15 and 16 October.
All Member States have now adopted national measures in conformity with the principles in this plan, for example, as you already know, through guarantee mechanisms for the financing of banks and systems enabling their recapitalisation.
I believe that we have demonstrated solidarity in supporting Member States gripped by financial difficulties.
We have now also agreed on the need to raise the upper limit for loans that the Union may make under this arrangement from EUR 12 billion to EUR 25 billion.
I believe, as you have already said, Mrs Berès, that now is the time to relaunch our economy.
The Member States and the Union must act in concert and contribute to a wider response at the global level.
With regard to the recovery of the European economy, the Commission has taken the initiative of publishing a communiqué on 26 November, a European economic recovery plan for growth and jobs.
But in addition to the urgent measures taken at Community level to restore confidence in the financial markets and protect savers' deposits, support financial institutions and provide assistance to Member States in difficulties, the fundamental reforms you are asking for, Mrs Berès, are, I believe, already underway.
Work on European regulations concerning rating agencies has begun and is expected to be completed in spring 2009.
However, I believe more radical changes are necessary in this area, and we are very much looking forward to the work of the high-level group chaired by Jacques de Larosière, which will also look at supervision, particularly the issue of the supervision of investment funds.
In any event, all these achievements and this work point to the European Union remaining the driving force in the international work being conducted in response to the financial crisis.
The crisis has very clearly demonstrated that these problems, which are of global scale, must be resolved at the global level.
Europe was thus able, and I believe this is very important, to speak with one voice at the Washington meeting on 15 November.
At its meeting on 4 November, it examined all relevant questions in order to decide on a European response to the crisis and its proposal was subsequently endorsed by the Heads of State or Government at their informal meeting on 7 November.
Furthermore, not only must the international financial institutions have the resources to deal with crises, they must also play a key role in their prevention.
The Council therefore unreservedly supports the statement issued by the Heads of State or Government of the G20 countries, made public on 15 November.
Everything is now in place for developing common European positions so that this 'Washington declaration' can be implemented within the timescale set out for the next international deadlines.
Europe must therefore remain a driving force in the current debate on reforming international financial architecture.
Our internal discussions and the reforms which we will go on adopting must continue in order to feed in to this process, which is only just beginning.
Mr President, Mr Novelli, Mr Jouyet, Mrs Berès, ladies and gentlemen, less than a month ago in Strasbourg we spoke about the results and conclusions of the Washington meeting.
The Commission proposed a stimulus that it considers both necessary and possible in a situation such as the one we are in.
I admit that a number of Ecofin members unfortunately did not welcome our proposal to both the Council and Parliament to make it possible to use unspent funds more flexibly without altering the overall ceiling of the EU's budget, thus enabling us to devote the sum of EUR 5 billion to investment in infrastructure and fighting climate change at a European level.
Secondly, Mrs Berès referred to European debt securities.
There are some major euro area countries that reject this possibility.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Ministers, Commissioner, firstly, with regard to the questions, I would say that they clearly demonstrate Parliament's desire to be kept informed and to be more involved in the process of reforming the architecture of the financial markets.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, first of all I would like to confirm to Commissioner Almunia that 'one plus one' is not two but three if we do it together.
I am not going to go into coordination because I think my good colleague Mrs Berès has underlined the issue, as you did yourself.
That is why I am so disappointed by the information I got yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs under the leadership of Mrs Berès.
We have unanimously here in Parliament agreed on a report saying that due to this regulatory crisis we must have new regulations empowering all financial actors without exception - including hedge funds and private equity.
We now have a new consultation two years later.
Much can be done in regulating all financial entities (including hedge funds and private equity funds), constraining leverage, dealing with pro-cyclicality and accounting, coordinating policies better, dealing with the rating agencies.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I should first like to wholeheartedly endorse Mr Rasmussen's assessment that we are talking about a completely new relationship between state and market, with regard to the entire financial world.
What we can learn from the collapse of the financial markets is what happens if the state holds back too much and does not dare to apply the rules which it has identified as correct.
The recovery plan is now a bit Keynes, a bit green, but really underneath it is still the same old thing.
Reviewing the entire EU budget at the beginning of next year would give the Commission an opportunity to approach the various major crises which we have to manage in a systematic and uniform manner. (SK) Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament and guests, I applaud the initiative of European Union institutions which gave an impulse for dealing with the financial crisis at the global level.
However the economic response to the consequences of the financial crisis based on a plan for restoring growth and employment in the European Union seems to me to be more like a hasty improvisation.
The plan idealises the situation and forgets that the European Union is a group of national states, each of which is in different circumstances and has different priorities and different solutions to economic problems and economic development.
The first thing we have to do, therefore, is to normalise the financial markets, and in this respect I am going to talk about the European Central Bank.
Firstly, at the level of the European Union we are aware of the need to introduce mechanisms for transparency in and regulation and supervision of the financial markets.
There is no need for Commissioner McCreevy to start more consultations or for the Presidency to analyse and elicit more studies and proposals: we need look no further than the proposals of the socialists, which were made at the appropriate time and many of which have been taken up by this Parliament.
The real economy is exactly that, and we are here, as Europeans, to show the citizens that Europe is here too and, above all, on their side. (NL) Mr President, it strikes me as rather odd that, in recent years, there have never been sufficient funds for education, care, innovation and the environment and that it should now suddenly rain billions.
The Commission should make a firm stand for strict compliance with the Stability Pact and rules on State aid, and, in this light, I welcome the statements made by Mr Almunia and Mrs Kroes.
Alternatively, we should invest in achieving the 3% objective for research and development that was set back in 2000.
I clearly remember that Nobel prize winner Joseph Stiglitz addressed all these points.
That is where you would have to start because recognising one's own faults is the only key to finding the solution in future. (EL) The European Parliament has to give a clear message about both sides of this discussion today: firstly, concerning the rationale of the financial system that we have to build for the future and secondly, concerning our initial reaction to the recovery plan which was put forward by the Commission on 26 November.
If there are some within the Commission or even within this Parliament who were under the impression that the real economy could be built on the rationale of no rules, then current events would have proved them wrong.
Therefore I believe that the second message we must send to the Commissioner is that the rationale behind this package is the right one, it is going to help governments and it may well be a life raft on which the real economy can survive during the first days of a crisis.
Thank you. - (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by preparing a rescue and recovery plan for the European economy, the European Union is giving an initial message to its citizens, in addition to the markets.
It is important that all the appropriations and national plans are strictly and efficiently coordinated and targeted at the same objective.
The joint approach must also cover macroeconomic budget policies, as well as salary policies and a gradual, sharp reduction in the tax burden on labour and pensions.
I would ask the Commission and the Council whether they are indeed addressing the issue of the global institutions, as the oral question specifically requests about the International Monetary Fund, or alternative institutions that might perform the solidarity role on a global basis.
If new regulation is justified - and it may be - it must be the right regulation and it must not turn out to be an impediment to recovery and prevent or delay that recovery.
If temporary excess deficits are justified - and that is a big if - they must be temporary, they must be recuperable to a realistic schedule and, if some countries can afford the debt but others cannot, then surely we return to this question of mutual solidarity.
I appreciate in particular the readiness of the European Central Bank to cut interest rates in order to ensure the levels of liquidity required by the banking system to be able to invest in the real economy.
I also particularly appreciate the proposal made to amend the financial framework in order to invest during the next two years EUR 5 billion in developing the broadband infrastructure and connecting up Europe's power infrastructures.
I welcome the initiative launched by the European Investment Bank and certain national banks aimed at creating a 2020 fund earmarked for energy and climate change activities and for developing the transport infrastructure.
It will be possible to use state aid to support research and development, innovation, communication and information technology, transport and energy efficiency. (SK) I think that the two-year economic recovery plan can become a good, coordinated response of the European Union to the economic crisis, provided that it is carried out and implemented in a reasonable manner.
The EUR 30 billion, which is to be provided in equal shares from the European Union's budget and the European Investment Bank, must be well-targeted at the development of the knowledge-based economy and low-carbon economy, as well as at medium and long-term energy efficiency programmes.
Whilst I accept that it was our own British banks whose reckless lending landed us in the mess in the first place, with poor regulation and supervision by the government, I believe this fiscal policy - which is highly irresponsible - must also be accompanied by cuts in public spending and well thought out plans to fund it in the longer run.
Many of my colleagues have already dealt in detail with the action that is required.
The worldwide financial meltdown has highlighted the interdependent globalised nature of our world.
Therefore Member States should maintain the status quo.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to tell Mr Almunia that he rightly emphasised three aspects that are very important for ensuring the effectiveness of the recovery.
Mr Gauzès, I should like to say to you that you made the point well that all our efforts are focused on financing the real economy.
I believe that, yesterday, the Council put a message across to the Commission concerning aid for the banks, and it is clear that we want flexible and quick decision-making regarding the support that can be given to the banks and the financial institutions in the current circumstances.
I believe that the Council has been heard, and I should like to say to you, Mr Gauzès, that the Council very much shares your desire for rating agencies at European and, I would add, international, level to be effectively regulated, as many of my colleagues and many MEPs have said.
Mr Rasmussen, I should like to say to you, even though your speech was addressed more to the Commission, that I agreed with you when you stressed that no market segment should be exempt from regulation or supervision.
This was a powerful message from the Washington Summit on 15 November, and Europe must, of course, work towards these objectives, including in the area of speculative funds.
Mr Dăianu, it is true that the regulation of financial markets should be coordinated at international level; that is why, on the initiative of the European Union, the Washington Summit was held.
I believe that it was this voice of Europe, a united Europe, that was the deciding factor in that Summit, enabling that Summit to outline a kind of road map for genuine regulation of the international financial system, and this, because Europe was able to work effectively on its own programme.
Mr García-Margallo, the work of the European Central Bank has, in my view, played a decisive part in overcoming the difficulties that we have encountered only recently, and its president has clearly indicated that inflation is being curbed in Europe and that he is therefore anticipating, as a number of MEPs have noted, new room for manoeuvre in the area of monetary policy.
I felt that Mrs Ferreira was rather harsh regarding the European Union's response.
I believe that, unlike what she said, the European Union responded swiftly to the crisis by taking strong decisions in a very short time thanks to the positive cooperation of our institutions - the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament - and for that I thank you.
With regard to support for SMEs, we will shortly hold a debate on the decisions taken at the Competitiveness Council regarding the adoption of a European Small Business Act, and I believe that, in this area too, Europe has played its part concerning the financing of SMEs and the priority they should be given, including in a period of economic slowdown.
Mrs in't Veld, you were right to point out that the short-term recovery should be based on long-term structural reforms within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
We therefore need rules, but rules that are effective; not overregulation, of course, but a genuine framework that is suited to European competitiveness.
Mrs Gottardi, I wish to say to you that I fully share your desire to combat tax fraud.
I also wish to say to you that I agree with your very pertinent comments on the need for effective economic recovery.
Mrs Starkevičiūté, I agree that the normal slowdown of the financial sector is an integral part of the recovery of the European economy, and that this should be within a coordinated context.
The Presidency is actually in favour of a VAT reduction targeted in particular at highly labour-intensive and non-relocatable sectors.
Mr Rübig, you spoke on the same subject.
However, the debate on this matter is still not cut-and-dried, as you know.
Mrs Ţicǎu, I believe that one of the principles of the Commission's proposals on the economic recovery is investment that is real and timely but also lasting and structural; I am in complete agreement with you on this matter.
Mr Tannock, I do all the same believe, as the whole of the Council does, that we need a recovery that is concerted but can be reversed when there is a return to growth conditions.
This must be done at European level but also by taking account of the solutions that will be found at international level, because, if there is indeed one lesson to be learnt from this crisis, it is that today's financial system has a truly international dimension; it is therefore at international level, spurred on by Europe, that solutions must be found.
Mr President, Mr Novelli, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am very grateful for your comments and observations and for the interest you have shown in the Commission's initiatives, particularly the recovery plan that we have been discussing this afternoon.
Only yesterday at the Ecofin Council we were discussing how to improve the effectiveness of the recapitalisation and deposit guarantee plans that have been and are to be adopted by the various Member States.
The high level group chaired by Jacques de Larosière is analysing this, among other factors.
Inflation in the euro area at the end of November, according to Eurostat, was 2.1%.
Coordinated efforts by Member States have been effective in stabilizing the EU banking system, but much remains to be done to contain the propagation of the crisis into the wider economy and protect households, businesses and jobs.
At the same time, I would like to call attention to the fact that countries that are in as dire a fiscal situation as Hungary do not have any monetary or significant fiscal or tax reduction tools at their disposal.
I am particularly pleased that our combined efforts in this regard have the support of Commissioner Joaquín Almunia.
At the same time, I consider that our efforts on behalf of the neediest are still insufficient, and hence I urge that land development and new construction also be included in the changes being proposed in the area of housing support.
in writing. - (PL) In announcing its crisis action plan, the European Commission responded to the real need for Community action to stabilise and revive the economy.
The budget does not allocate additional funds for overcoming the crisis, and it is hard to imagine a plan of the order of EUR 200 billion being completely budget neutral.
The long-fought argument about the sources of funds for the EUR 1 billion aid to famine threatened countries shows that it will not be easy to get 27 countries to agree to the additional funding, namely the over EUR 116 billion of payments agreed on 21 November between the European Parliament and the Council for 2009.
If only for this reason, Mr Barroso's plan is no more than the sum of national efforts accompanied by promises of greater tolerance of budget deficits and state aid regulations.
