Economic and social consequences of restructuring in the automobile sector in Europe (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the economic and social consequences of restructuring in the automobile sector in Europe.
Member of the Commission. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the restructuring plan announced in November by Volkswagen to the board of the company's Belgian division and to the press will have a major social and economic impact within and beyond the company.
I personally have written to the president of the Volkswagen group to inform him of our concerns and to ask him to do everything possible in order to minimise the economic and social costs of the restructuring that has been announced.
I would also point out that, in 2003, in response to a Commission consultation on this subject, the European social partners jointly prepared guidelines for administering change and its social consequences.
That is why, in March 2005, the Commission again contacted the European social partners and asked them to devise efficient methods of developing these guidelines everywhere in Europe and of ensuring their application.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, I should first of all like to extend a warm welcome to the workers of Volkswagen Vorst, the suppliers and their representatives, who are present here in the gallery, and I should also like to express our genuine solidarity with them in these difficult times.
Thousands of workers are losing their jobs, and we should at the very least learn from this.
So we must now do what we can to reinforce this social dimension in the short term.
Secondly, we must also bring about real worker participation, which will in any case involve the evaluation of the 1994 European Directive in which this is enshrined.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, in the debate that we are having at present, it is important not to get everything mixed up and not to confuse all the various responsibilities.
Acting, as we are, at European Union level, we must demonstrate the resources available to us at this level in order to contribute to the best possible solution to problems of this kind, whether in the metalworking industry or in other branches of activity.
Through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and very soon, I hope, the European Monetary Fund (EMF), the European Union has the resources to help every worker individually with re-training, returning to work or starting his or her own business.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, the Volkswagen trade unionists in Parliament this afternoon told us that, although their first priority was to obtain an industrial plan from the motor manufacturer's management, they were also waiting for Europe to put an end to the social and fiscal competition between Member States that drags everyone down.
The immediate duty of everyone, including the European Union, is therefore to act to save these jobs at the Forest plant, not only for the workforce of the Volkswagen group but also for the 8 000 employees of subcontracting businesses.
Europe in its present state delivers results such as this one at Volkswagen Forest.
This demand will surely be expressed forcefully in the streets of Brussels on Saturday. (Applause) (NL) Mr President, with 4 000 workers laid off at Volkswagen in Vorst and at least another 2 000 jobs lost among the suppliers, these are truly dark times in my country for the affected workers and their families.
In a rather xenophobic reaction, Prime Minister Verhofstadt even blamed the Germans for pursuing a kind of 'own people first' policy, which is, in my politically correct country, about the worst accusation anyone can make - ignoring the fact that in Germany, 20 000 jobs are being lost and that we, with the social tragedy at Vorst, are actually experiencing the worst so far of an enormous crisis that is enveloping the European automobile industry.
Before blaming others, though, our governments, and the Belgian Government in particular, should ask itself whether it has done everything in its power to rescue as many jobs as possible, today in Vorst, but previously at Renault in Vilvoorde, at DHL, Sabena and elsewhere.
In view of such a practice, I fear for the future of the Volkswagen plant in Portugal.
These are some of the aims underlying the charter that my group is advocating as the key to the defence and development of our automotive industry. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, what we are experiencing today in spectacular fashion, in this savage decision by Volkswagen with its tragic consequences, is ultimately no more than the submerged part of the iceberg that floats on the ocean of free enterprise and free competition, which have become the watchwords of this European Union.
The question of how to respond effectively to the Volkswagen situation is a different matter.
I am sure that each case will open up a debate that may help to enhance the legal framework, and to change our processes and the way in which we respond, all of which is indicative of a functioning and thriving Europe.
The situation is the same as that affecting thousands of workers in Portugal, particularly at Opel/GM in Azambuja, Johnson Controls, Lear and so many other companies.
