On the question of transparency raised by an honourable Member of Parliament, I would like to recall that very recently, on 28 April 2009, the European Commission adopted a communication identifying actions in order to promote good governance in the tax area, which means transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition.
Firstly the communication identifies how good governance in the tax area could be improved within the European Union so as to reinforce the argument for other jurisdictions to follow.
The communication also proposes ways of ensuring more coherence between Member States' individual policy positions in the international tax area and agreed good governance principles.
Member of the Commission. - Well, there is a Treaty and the Treaty is very clear.
Taxation instruments are sometimes good to really create incentives or develop the economy, but this is very much dependent on the situation in particular Member States.
This communication follows on from the actions taken by the Commission over recent years, which are in line with many of the recommendations formulated by the European Parliament in its resolution in 2007.
The Commission awaits the response of the European Parliament to the approach proposed in its communication with particular interest. (EL) Madam President, I am sorry, but the question remains.
As such, it is addressed at the Member States, which jealously guard the principle of subsidiarity as regards competence for this matter, so that they will incorporate the provisions of the European Union on buildings into their national laws, be they the provisions of Eurocode 8 for new buildings, or the provisions on strengthening buildings for old buildings.
As you perhaps know, the Krško nuclear power plant is situated on this fault line.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, as I said earlier, we await the response of the European Parliament to the communication we have issued on earthquake prevention.
Renewable energy projects, such as solar thermal electricity, are eligible.
We encourage more use of synergy energy sources; in particular we increased the limits of how much renewable energy could be used in relation to housing and energy efficiency.
We will try to elaborate on it so that these technologies get support, not only from the Community budget but also from industry and the Member States, so that this support is targeted and so that we get the new technological development very quickly to achieve our goal of 20% renewable energy by 2020, but perhaps we can be even more ambitious in this respect.
In the event that any of the projects which have been nominated specifically under the Recovery Plan are not in a position to draw down the funding by the deadline of 30 June 2010, will you have what I will refer to as a reserve list of projects that are ready to go, so that the money will actually go into this sector, to energy efficiency and low energy?
Member of the Commission. - In establishing the list we looked at the majority of the projects and we also involved the Member States, so at this stage I have no reason to believe that we will be unable to disburse or commit all the money.
I can assure you that this process is so watertight that no permission has ever been given to build a nuclear power installation unless all the safety requirements can be guaranteed. (EL) Madam President, I should like to ask, in connection with what the Commissioner said about the evaluation of every proposal, if an ex-ante study can be carried out for the area in question, including on the basis of EuroMediterranean cooperation and the particular character of the area, so that there are criteria which every country will have to take into account from the beginning and comply with in their planning.
We need to look at the specific situation in each and every Member State and, at the same time, each and every project.
Commissioner, I would like to congratulate you on the nuclear package which you have just tabled and which, in particular, concerns new nuclear power plants, as well as the proposal that, in future, International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEO) standards should be binding.
I believe that full responsibility for safety should lie at all times with a national regulator, because that is the best way and that will always avoid the debate of whether the central regulator is pushing hard enough for nuclear energy etc.
The EIB has already been involved in specific projects, such as with Barcelona, on which negotiations are quite advanced.
The Southern and Eastern Operational Programme, which includes the City of Cork, will invest EUR 669 million in the region and contribute to reaching Lisbon growth and jobs objectives.
This can be as much as 4% of the total Regional Fund allocation.
The Covenant of Mayors includes sympathisers like New York and Rochester, and has participants from other non-EU countries, so it offers a lot of knowledge through the office we operate.
We are using all those instruments to support these initiatives.
Rather than just promoting sustainability and energy efficiency, we need to utilise the funds to create new ways of creating energy to make cities even more self-sufficient, rather than importing fuel or building nuclear power stations, as we were saying previously.
Member of the Commission. - We are trying to respond to this request.
I am sorry, Mr Rübig, but you have had one question already and the Commissioner has given us some very full answers.
Thank you, Commissioner, and I am conscious that you are standing in for Commissioner Ashton.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is doing everything possible to ensure that this monitoring is strong in every aspect, especially on the issue that you raised.
In fact, Canada's Copyright Act is in urgent need of revision in order to bring it into line with current international standards of protection in the on-line environment, such as those laid down in the WIPO Internet Treaties of 1996 and the EU Copyright Directive (2001/29/EC).
EU Trade Commissioner Ashton and Korean Trade Minister Kim subsequently met in London on 2 April 2009.
Member of the Commission. - In contrast, the Member States have recently confirmed their interest in concluding an ambitious and balanced agreement with Korea.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is currently still engaged in negotiations with the United States, and we are very optimistic that a mutually acceptable solution can emerge very soon.
The EU Trade Commissioner Catherine Ashton and US Trade Representative Ron Kirk agreed on 22 April to hold further talks in order to find a negotiated solution to the long-running dispute over hormone-treated beef.
Member of the Commission. - Mr Papastamkos, I shall gladly convey your message to Commissioner Ashton and, without going too far in what I am saying, I think the results will be really quite satisfactory.
Subject: Non-compliance by airlines with Regulation No. 261/2004 The Court of Justice of the European Communities delivered a judgment on 22 December 2008 pursuant to which an airline may not refuse to compensate passengers following the cancellation of a flight because of technical problems affecting the aircraft.
Under the terms of Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 on passenger rights in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, Member States are responsible for applying the regulation and are obliged to prosecute airlines that do not comply with the provisions.
The last meeting between the Commission and the competent national authorities was held at the beginning of December last year, in other words a few weeks before the Court of Justice's decision.
As far as I have understood, Member States must handle these matters, but you can also see if anything can be done.
I believe this aim of privatisation is also shared by other airlines, I am thinking of Austrian Airlines, Malev and Czech Airlines.
Madam President, Mr Posselt, as you know, the Berlin-Palermo rail axis is one of the 30 priority transEuropean transport network projects and the Brenner base tunnel project is the centrepiece of this priority project.
This is another reason why we accelerated the granting of finance at the end of last year once authorisation had been given for EUR 786 million of funding for priority project No 1.
On 22 March 2009, the Austrian authorities submitted their multiannual programme for infrastructures, which includes financing of the Brenner base tunnel.
On 17 April 2009, following the completion of the environmental impact assessment, they issued a construction permit for the project.
Priority project 17 - the Strasbourg-Vienna high-speed link that forms part of the Paris-Strasbourg-Stuttgart-Vienna-Bratislava rail axis - is proceeding in a satisfactory manner in all the Member States involved: France, Germany, Austria and Slovakia.
Most of the 831 km stretch between Strasbourg and Vienna - more specifically the Strasbourg-Stuttgart and Linz-Vienna sections - will be complete by 2015.
The Stuttgart-Ulm section, which represents the most significant bottleneck, will be complete by 2020.
The relevant finance protocol will be signed on 2 April of this year.
On 31 March, the European Commission published two invitations to submit TEN-T proposals.
