EMU10: The first 10 years of Economic and Monetary Union and future challenges (debate) We will now proceed with the debate on the first ten years of economic and monetary union and future challenges.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the Eurogroup, Commissioner, I believe that this is an important moment, and the theme that we are going to debate today greatly affects Europeans as a whole.
Commissioner, I should like to thank you for your sense of anticipation, for when, in May 2008, in this House, you put this document on the table, no one realised just how useful and necessary it would be, or how it would underpin vital work aimed at looking ahead to the future and at being able to tackle the crisis facing us on the basis of this solid foundation that is the euro.
However, I am fully aware that, in your discussion with the ministers for economic affairs and finance, they suddenly had their minds on other matters, they suddenly had their minds on matters to which they were not paying attention: those of the financial markets.
It is therefore time that the ministers for economic affairs and finance used the Treaty, which tells them to regard their economic policy as a policy of common interest.
Commissioner, you made this a key point of your report: the idea that the differences that have emerged in the operation of the Euro Zone are a cause for concern.
Therefore, we, the European Parliament, call on you to provide the European Union with tools enabling it to observe the quality of public spending in order to see how the Member States react, and to ensure that this is not just a debate on thresholds, one that allows only a general debate and not a debate on the quality of public spending, which is the responsibility of the ministers for economic affairs and finance.
The euro protected us.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Euro Zone, the Prime Minister and the Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs.
On the basis of institutional cooperation within the Euro Zone, decisions could be drafted quickly, implemented promptly and, in particular, act as examples for all 27 Member States.
We have presented a report containing 62 detailed points, including an assessment of the past and prospects for the future.
Mrs Berès has already talked about certain points concerning the outlook for the future, and I would like to expand on them.
The Stability and Growth Pact can only act as an anchor between these two levels if the Member States are prepared to stick to the pact, to accept the conditions and to demonstrate the necessary discipline.
The package for the financial markets was wrapped up quickly, the governments took action, and there was a demonstration of an ability to act in a crisis, including by the Commission, but the question is, are we now going to cast aside the principles that have contributed to the stability of the euro, or are we going to succeed in developing and maintaining those principles?
The fact is, though, that we need a more authoritative and unified external representation of the euro - in which respect we fully share the position taken by the Prime Minister of Luxembourg and President of the Eurogroup.
Without coordination, we cannot tackle this situation effectively.
I totally agree with many of the governance aspects that you have included in your report and I hope that the Finance Ministers in the Ecofin Council and in the Eurogroup will also agree.
There is nothing to add or to remove from what they have expressed in their report.
I know of no quantitative report on the divergences between the various Member States of the Euro Zone.
For the rest, and in this regard, we should be pleased that Europe - the European Union in general and the Eurogroup in particular - which is today faced with one of the most serious crises that it has had to tackle over the past few decades, has competently managed the crisis in which we currently find ourselves, not least by avoiding making the mistakes that were made in Europe during the 1970s.
The fact is, in the face of a crisis of the size that we are experiencing and in the face of a crisis that is increasingly extending to the real economy, a strong and coordinated economic policy response at European level is necessary, and we need to reflect on the best way of organising it by taking account, on the one hand, of our conceptual and regulatory framework - I am referring here to the Stability and Growth Pact and to the Lisbon Strategy - and, on the other, of the seriousness of the crisis, the consequences of which are far graver than we imagined a few months ago.
The creation of the world's second major currency certainly brings advantages, but it also entails obligations, with the G20 of last Friday and Saturday in Washington reminding us of the obligations of ourselves and others.
We have to use and make the most of the three weeks we have before the December European Council in order to skilfully hone our European strategy and to prevent disparate responses at national level.
I note that the various governments of the various member countries of the Euro Zone are pouncing greedily, and justifiably, on the problems being faced by their countries' automobile sector.
Integration and supervision of the financial markets - that is another area of considerations that your rapporteurs have covered in their report.
The G20 has set us an ambitious road map; it must be translated into concrete action by the G20, and hence by the European Union and by the members of the Eurogroup.
For two years several of us, at G7 level and in particular under the German Presidency of the G7, demanded, with a certain bluntness of tone, more extensive regulation of the financial markets.
We have always appealed, within the Eurogroup, for the European Union and the Eurogroup to have a greater presence at the G20, at the International Monetary Fund and at the Financial Stability Fund.
However, we believe that the European Central Bank and the Commission should be represented on a long-term basis at the G20, as should the Eurogroup, whether it be represented by the President of the Eurogroup, who is modestly trying to lead the finance ministers' work, to which Mr Sarkozy commented that they were unequal, or by someone else.
For the rest, with regard to the EMU's economic instruments and the governance of our group, I believe that, over the last few years, we have made remarkable progress, but when we debate exchange policy and monetary policy at international level, it is unthinkable that the world's second major currency should not be represented in political and monetary terms by those responsible for managing these two aspects and these two areas of our common policy.
In Luxembourg, as you know, this presents no problem whatsoever. (Applause) Many thanks, Mr Juncker, not only for this report, but also for your committed work on this matter as President of the Eurogroup.
No one can dispute the fact - and many studies demonstrate it - that there is indeed a link between monetary policy and trade policy, and that, in this respect, the positive role of currency stability is necessary for the sustainable growth of international trade.
Increased use of the euro as an international currency benefits the Member States of the Euro Zone because it enables European businesses to reduce the exchange risk and to increase their international competitiveness.
However, although the European Central Bank, by prioritising price stability, has increased confidence in the euro, no one can seriously dispute the fact that inflation is a global reality and that, in an open market economy, this global phenomenon cannot be tackled by means of European monetary policy alone.
It is clear that the euro exchange rates have been too high for too long and have had negative effects, not least by constraining exports and by promoting imports within the internal market.
It is in this way that I regret that the Commission has not carried out a more precise analysis of the euro's international role and its repercussions on the internal market with regard to international trade.
Other players also spoke, including Jacques Santer, and also Wilfried Maartens, who at the time described the countries in the Euro Zone - first 11, then 15, then 16 of them - as the pioneers of a courageous Europe.
I believe that we in Europe need courage for the future, so that we can carry on working so successfully and continue to stand up in the world of the other major powers - the USA, Asia and the other world powers - successfully with the euro.
I want to congratulate not only the rapporteurs, but also the Commission on its initiative in preparing this text reviewing the first 10 years of Economic and Monetary Union.
It is a strategic text and this analysis was vital.
However, every day now the solidity of the European project is being put to the test in many other dimensions.
This divergence affects regions in my country, in particular northern Portugal, and also other regions in other Member States.
Today, the crisis resulting from deregulation of financial markets is seriously affecting the real economy and is further worsening the situation of many citizens in many regions.
The most powerful European countries have already taken steps to stimulate their national economies.
The debate on coordinating economic policies in the euro area is now unquestionably more relevant and more topical.
However, coordinating national policies is not enough.
The Commission must be equal to its own diagnosis and that is why we anxiously await the concrete proposals to be made by the Commission on 26 November to this House and to the European citizens.
The achievements in this area can be credited, not least, to you, Mr Juncker, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you most particularly.
Countries that have previously been opposed to joining the Euro Zone, such as Denmark and Sweden, are now changing their minds and considering joining in a few years.
The only thing that might be worth considering would be, with regard to the rate of inflation, not to use the three best countries in the European Union as the reference point, but instead to look at the Euro Zone as a whole, given that we are now a larger club with 16 members.
Since the Stability and Growth Pact was revised a few years ago, it has been flexible enough to respond appropriately, in times of economic imbalance, to challenges such as those of the current crisis.
When this topic was first reported at committee level, we were experiencing a very different economic climate.
As the financial situation has worsened, the tone of our debates here in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has changed.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the Eurogroup, Commissioner, on behalf of my group, I should also like to thank Mrs Berès and Mr Langen for the important report they have submitted to us.
The first remark concerns the euro exchange rate policy.
I admit that I still do not understand whether or not there is an exchange rate policy for the euro in relation to the other international currencies and whether, at the G20 or elsewhere, there is a discussion about the way in which the United States' very substantial deficits are going to continue to be financed.
The first point is the issue of taxation.
I believe that the coordination effort is not going very well and I also believe that the responses you are providing with regard to the revisited Stability and Growth Pact are neither sufficient nor a match for the challenge awaiting us.
Banks are collapsing, or are being propped up with billions from national budgets; the market is collapsing, and millions of people are afraid for their jobs and their future.
The second serious mistake, in our view, lies in the structure of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The third mistake, in our view, lies in the structure of the European Central Bank itself, which is not subject to any democratic supervision and which has as its sole objective price stability.
We would advocate introducing democratic supervision for the European Central Bank, and we also call for the ECB's monetary policy mandate to be adjusted so that, in future, growth and employment have to be given at least the same weight as price stability.
The costs have been considerable, and so how is it going now?
It was the United Kingdom, which is outside the monetary union, and Gordon Brown who took the initiative.
The real test of a currency's success is the degree of confidence in the market, and that is measured in this case by the bond spreads between euro-zone states.
The last time I looked, the bond spread between Greece and Germany was over 150 basis points.
It shows a total lack of confidence in the euro from the markets.
This applies in the case of adherence to the conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact, for example, where some governments are already signalling that they will apparently not be sticking to a planned deficit in their public finances and referring in this context to the encouragement of the European Union.
The takeover of troubled financial institutions by the governments of some Member States will create a dangerous precedence for the expropriation of private companies in any sector whatsoever who are not willing to adapt themselves to un-systematic regulatory and discriminatory interventions carried out, for example, in the interests of holding down inflation.
Without clear and careful coordination and clear rules at a European Union or Euro Zone level, it will be difficult to manage these very challenging processes.
I must congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work and, in particular, thank them for having incorporated two of my proposals.
The first was to introduce, in the definition of our monetary policy, together with the economic pillar and the monetary pillar, the need for a financial analysis in order to correctly define this policy.
A 'one size fits all' monetary policy will not in many cases suit the situation of the various countries.
But the current events in the financial markets have changed my attitude to the Eurogroup's role and influence on the European Union.
On the other hand, we need liberal reforms so that the integration process becomes stronger and creates opportunities for business expansion in the European Union.
In conclusion, I would like to join my colleagues and say to you, Mr President of the Eurogroup, that we value your work and know how complicated this all is - at least in the European Parliament you have support. (PL) Mr President, a review of the ten years of Economic and Monetary Union should be assessed from an international perspective.
Growth in jobs, and particular the growth in labour productivity has been lower than in the USA, not to mention Asia.
Another aspect is the future of the Euro Zone: documents of the European Central Bank and the authorities of the EU are placing increasing emphasis on the need to use the euro as a tool to impose uniform economic policies on the Member States, particularly as regards budgetary and fiscal policies.
The position of the EU authorities is even less acceptable when it is considered that for many years both Germany and France failed to comply with the stringent conditions of Maastricht, because they knew that this was in their national interests.
Therefore, in my view, what is needed is not to continue the present economic doctrine of the Euro Zone, but a radical change which will help not only to counteract the present financial crisis, but will above all release the energy for every Member State of the EU to develop economically. (EL) Mr President, the proposal by the European Commission on the first ten years of Economic and Monetary Union contains a series of contradictions.
It aims to close a cycle of market deregulation, while in the real economy the prices of goods and services are at an all-time high and unemployment in the Euro Zone is forecast to reach 8.6% in 2009 and 9% in 2010.
The global economic and financial crisis is directly linked to limitations on the state and the policy of deregulation.
We need to look very critically at our common currency.
Investors lack confidence in the euro.
The low rate of the euro in relation to the dollar is a result of there being no confidence in the economic policy of the countries using the euro.
Finally, I have to say to Mr Klinz - who said that we in Denmark would like to join the euro and that our currency is weak - that the Danish economy is as solid as a rock and that we have managed the financial crisis better than the average euro country. (DE) Mr President, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of economic and monetary union, there is really very little to celebrate.
Not only do we need strict EU-wide monitoring of dubious financial constructs, but we also need to require a solidarity contribution from those who have profited from speculation.
We must, however, also bear in mind that these successes would never have been possible without the Maastricht criteria, the Stability and Growth Pact and the European Central Bank, and without political will and a willingness to take responsibility at European level.
I would therefore once again stress that there can be no summit without representatives of the Euro Zone and of the European Central Bank.
The financial crisis has demonstrated that the euro has helped us to avoid currency speculation, and to prevent it from occurring in the Euro Zone.
My final point, Mr President, is that we also want the European Union to be represented in the IMF, the World Bank and the global financial economy in accordance with its strength.
Allow me to say a few words regarding Sweden's position outside the Euro Zone.
Sweden has good economic development, that is true, but membership of the euro would have given us more stability in our monetary policy and have created more jobs, a more stable economy and stronger exports.
The Swedish parties should therefore be prepared to review their passive attitude to the euro as a currency for Sweden.
It is therefore time that we began to talk seriously in my country about a new referendum.
For my part, I am hoping for Swedish membership within five years. (PL) Mr President, I would like to draw attention to two questions in this debate, questions which in my view cast a shadow on the functioning of economic and monetary union.
Firstly, we have the more rapid development of the countries outside the Euro Zone than those within it.
GDP growth in these countries was almost double the average in the Euro Zone, and unemployment rates were significantly lower than in the Euro Zone.
The differences between the Euro Zone countries and the new Member States are even more telling.
The candidates for monetary union have to meet strict fiscal and monetary criteria for two years before adopting the currency, while the two largest EU countries - Germany and France - who are in the Euro Zone, exceeded the budget deficit threshold for the four years between 2002-2005.
The Euro Zone is in a recession and unemployment is rising sharply.
Therefore, I suggest that in examining what happened, we should take into account not only GDP but also GNI.
The tools of the ECB, particularly during the current crisis, should be used for each Member State, especially as regard liquidity; we should not be selfish in this regard.
This is necessary, but each Member State should be involved in conferring the mandate for the external representation of the Euro Zone; external representation should not be an exclusive club, since the EU is a unified entity.
Finally, I would like to say that Member States need to enter the Euro Zone as soon as possible, under strict but logical conditions.
Thank you for your attention. - (SK) In connection with the financial crisis in recent weeks the inhabitants of Europe have seen how the Member States in the Euro Zone are better equipped to cope with large disruptions.
The financial investors and speculators from the currency markets already consider us to be part of the Euro Zone.
Speculators see in them a level of risk which they do not wish to incur, due to the crisis on the financial markets.
The adoption of the euro for a small and open economy shields entrepreneurs and inhabitants from fluctuations in the exchange rate.
I would like to end by congratulating both rapporteurs for an excellent report. (LT) The Economic and Monetary Union is 10 years old.
It is a fine anniversary, but also an occasion to consider how the EU and the global economic, financial and political situation has changed and whether the Maastricht criteria suit current global changes.
In 2005 the Stability and Growth Pact was reviewed, perhaps because its requirements had not been implemented by the largest countries in the Euro Zone.
In a period of 10 years virtually none of the countries in the Euro Zone had implemented all of the Maastricht criteria.
I invite the European Commission and the European Central Bank to review once more the Economic and Monetary Union's principles, government, and the Maastricht criteria, asking whether they are being implemented in the current global economic and financial situation and what the future holds for the Economic and Monetary Union and candidates to the Euro Zone. (PL) Mr President, Mr Juncker, you are out of luck, because today's debate on the success of euroland is being held at a moment when Eurostat has announced that a major recession is starting in the countries which have the common currency.
In their report, the authors praise the fall in unemployment, which over nine years has admittedly been just over 1.5%, but forecasts now predict a significant increase in unemployment in the Euro Zone in the coming year.
It is clear that the euro is neither a panacea for economic woes, nor an instrument that by its nature provides faster economic growth and greater prosperity than in the EU countries outside the euro - Sweden, Denmark and Great Britain. (EL) Mr President, there can be no doubt that the birth of EMU and the euro are one of the highlights in the sixty-year history of European integration.
This is the first time in Europe and in the world that we have had such a structured changeover to a common currency, without war, without bloodshed, by consensus and through the political will of independent countries which jointly and democratically decided to take this road towards monetary stability.
It has been a difficult road, but a road which suited both components in Europe: both those countries which were accustomed to financial stability and continued to pursue the same anti-inflationary policies and the others which, after decades with no financial discipline, found for the first time in the euro an oasis in which they could rationalise and restructure their economic basics.
Now, however, we are in a very difficult phase, at a crucial stage in which we must look at the 'E' in EMU.
I have already said in this House on numerous occasions that I am in favour of financial stability and the Stability and Growth Pact, but that I feel that this Pact has not always been a friend to the real economy.
Neither this Pact nor the monetary policy has been a true friend to the real economy.
I have never met anyone and I have particularly never met an economist or economic theorist who at any time has said that it is absolutely vital to doggedly maintain this kind of configuration.
Mr President, the Berès-Langen report is an excellent one because what it does is give us the history of the EMU over the last 10 years and say how it should go forward in the future.
The euro has been a resounding success: it is the second most important currency in the world; inflation in the first 10 years has broadly been in line with the ECB's objective of 2%; furthermore, it has facilitated travel, trade and employment; and, most importantly of all, it signifies a further step in EU consolidation.
I have to say that I want to commend Presidents Barroso and Sarkozy for the manner in which they represented the European Union at the G20 talks in Washington last week.
For several years we have had low prices and low levels of inflation, we have had low interest rates, we have had transparency of prices among countries, we have had macroeconomic stability - and this is a particular success for those countries which previously had problems with inflation and their budget deficit.
I would like to comment on what my Polish fellow Member said a few minutes earlier, when he said that we have growing unemployment and a financial crisis in the Euro Zone.
I would like to say that the long-term success of any currency will be decided by real factors, it will be decided by long-term economic development, and this is lacking in Europe.
That is why we need to create a basis for long-term growth in Europe, which will strengthen the European currency.
The second point is that I believe that we should review the nominal convergence criteria, and we should ensure that we adapt the criteria to the new conditions, in particular the inflationary criteria and the method of calculating the benchmark, so that they will enable those new Member State economies that are very dynamic to join the Euro Zone. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Eurogroup and the Commissioner, as well as the two rapporteurs who produced this report, because I am convinced that the introduction of the euro has enabled citizens to manage their own family budgets more successfully, by helping them to make savings in their spending on goods and services, and not only this.
As others have pointed out, we have seen the inflation rate contained at an average of around 2%, as well as the creation of roughly 16 million jobs over these ten years and the reduction of the public budget deficit, which in 2007 - as the Commissioner said - amounted to approximately 0.6% of GDP compared with 4% in the 1980s and 1990s.
It is clear that we must look again at making significant adjustments to the basic structure of the euro, in order to put Member States with a below-average GDP in a position to redress their disadvantage.
An EMU road map to better analyse economic divergence, drive forward structural reforms and monitor public finances and financial markets, accelerating their integration, is therefore most welcome.
Without European Monetary Union, both the euro countries and the countries outside the euro would have been far more vulnerable to this financial crisis.
Over the past 10 years, the European Central Bank has played a very positive role, and this initiative has ensured very stable monetary policy and economic policy that actually made us able to respond in timely fashion to the crisis and to take proactive actions, not only in the EU area, but globally when it comes to discussions of reform of global financial architecture.
The sustainability of inflation and the deficit in the public finances will be very closely monitored in Slovakia and the current Slovak government must therefore continue with the reforms of the previous government of Mikuláš Dzurinda.
It should not meddle in pension reform in an attempt to obtain the funds of private savers and achieve a short-term improvement in the public finance deficit, it will not pass laws that conflict with the rules of the market and it will contribute to improvements in the entrepreneurial environment. (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union derives its strength from its 490 million or so European citizens.
The Euro Zone is a pillar of stability for Europe and the whole global economy.
Homogenous markets are at the centre of this problem.
I believe that tighter regulation of the financial and banking sector, combined with encouraging investment in research and development, promoting competition and providing financial education for citizens may be much more effective solutions during this time of crisis.
I think that the states of the European Union need to show economic and financial solidarity at the moment as intervention in the financial and banking sector alone is not sufficient to stabilise the economic crisis except superficially.
Had we been founder members of the Euro Zone - which we should have been - we would have been in a much stronger position today.
The euro can only remain stable and make progress against the dollar as a global reserve currency if two things are guaranteed: firstly, the ECB, which has proven itself in the crisis, must remain independent - as has already been argued - and, secondly, the Stability and Growth Pact must be expanded on.
Member of the Commission. - (ES) Mr President, I should like to thank all the Members who have spoken in this debate.
I believe that, from this debate, we can conclude that there is a very broad consensus in favour of the report under discussion, together with very broad support for continuing with the Economic and Monetary Union project and also in favour of our single currency.
President of the Eurogroup. - (FR) Mr President, I shall be very brief, since the majority of those who tried to lead this debate are no longer in the Chamber.
The Member States that have been virtuous in terms of budget consolidation over the past few years have sufficient budget margins to enable them to react to the current economic crisis, which includes the structural aspects that we are facing at present.
It is clear that the Euro Zone has to provide a strong and coordinated response to the economic crisis.
We therefore have a few weeks in which to gather together all the elements we need in order to analyse and take action, so that we can formulate this practical and strong response.
However, all those who are demanding greater coordination of economic policies must of course work towards this by trying not to anticipate economic policy decisions that they have not referred to their colleagues within the Eurogroup.
I am therefore saying that we need a strong and coordinated economic response to what is becoming more and more of an economic crisis.
I believe that the flexibility shown by the Euro Zone and the 27 Member States in recent weeks is a very good start.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 18 November 2008 at 12 noon.
