They both passed away on 3 March 2001.
Mr Lambrias was a Member of this House for 15 years, between 1984 and 1999.
I would like to express my condolences to both families, to the Group of the Greens and to the PPE-DE Group and I would ask you to observe a minute' s silence in memory of our two colleagues who have passed away. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, there has been another terrorist attack in Spain since our last part-session.
During the night of 8 March, Iñaki Totorika Vega, a member of the Ertzaintza, the Basque regional police force, was killed in a car bomb explosion in Hernani.
I have also sent a message to the Spanish Government stating our unconditional support in its fight against terrorism and I would ask you to rise and observe a minute' s silence to pay tribute to Iñaki Totorika, and to all the members of the security forces who work so courageously, often putting their lives at risk, for peace in the Basque region. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) You will also be aware of the terrible accident that took place in northern Portugal when the bridge at Entre-os-Rios collapsed, claiming the lives of more than 70 people.
I again ask you to observe a minute' s silence to show our respect for the memory of the victims. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of the sitting of 1 March have been distributed.
Madam President, I believe that this would serve the interests of the House itself and also the performance of your office.
This will be corrected. (The Minutes were approved) Agenda The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 8 March pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
It seems extraordinary that this Parliament, which represents the people of Europe, is not addressing this question this week, given the deepening of the crisis since the Commission last spoke.
I obviously have a particular concern in that this crisis is threatening a EUR 15bn food industry in the Republic of Ireland because of the steps we have had to take to ensure that foot-and-mouth disease does not get a hold there.
I would ask you, Madam President, to take the initiative and request the Commissioner to come to Parliament this week to make an up-to-date statement on this crisis.
Thank you, Mr De Rossa.
The situation has changed so much since the matter was discussed by the Council of Presidents that I would urge you to find time, perhaps during the discussion of the regulation you have just referred to, for us to have a Commission update this week here in Parliament.
I believe you should invite the Commissioner to come and give his views on the overwhelming crisis that we are going through at the present time.
I would ask you, as you have always done in the past, to find the time for an emergency debate on this matter.
Thank you, Mr Hyland.
The House will judge whether this request is admissible.
Madam President, with all due respect to the Conference of Presidents - which I also attend on occasion, as you have quite rightly pointed out - there should be an opportunity for emergency statements by Members of this House, especially when new developments have occurred.
I think it is very important that we have some mechanism in the House to adjust the agenda when an urgent situation such as this arises.
The sad fact is that, although this particular disease affects only animals, it can be transmitted by air over a distance of some 200 kilometres and therefore any Member State within the European Union and beyond is vulnerable.
Indeed, when Commissioner Byrne spoke in front of the House, he congratulated the UK Government on its swift, direct handling of this issue.
Rule 37 makes it quite clear that the Commission may, at any time, ask for permission to make a statement.
Relating to Tuesday: I have received a request from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, to add to Tuesday' s agenda an item on a Commission statement on the system for encrypting confidential information currently in place at the European Commission and on its relations with the United States' National Security Agency.
I spoke to you, Madam President, on this very same subject at the beginning of the month.
We cannot, therefore, wait until September and for the Temporary Committee' s report to discuss this, as some Members are proposing.
Mr Lannoye, did you have a point of order?
In this particular case, though, Parliament is to deliver an opinion on a position that has been adopted within the Council.
I am not seeking to hold up the Nassauer report but I would ask for the matter to be referred, in future cases, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs because this is a very important precedent.
My concern was to make sure that we respect our Rules of Procedure because they are the foundation of the powers and privileges of this House.
Thank you, Mr Corbett.
I should like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this problem does not only concern water management in a Member State, in this case Spain, insofar as everyone knows that a very ambitious hydrological plan is obviously included in the period up to 2008 which clearly contravenes a number of European directives, one of which is the framework directive that we adopted quite recently.
We shall, therefore, take a vote on the request for the debate not to be followed by a resolution. (Parliament gave its assent) The order of business is thus agreed.
In my opinion, the normal procedure in doubtful cases would be to consult this House's Legal Service, which, after all, is available to you in your capacity as President.
So my second question to you is this: why did you allow more than seven months to elapse without demanding a response to your enquiry?
My third question is this: under the present circumstances, would you now be prepared to involve the relevant committee of this House - in this case, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which deals with the issue of immunity - and transfer the responsibility for this matter to that Committee, or do you intend to retain this competence yourself?
Thank you, Mr Schulz.
First of all, I would like to reiterate that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the request must indeed come from the competent authority of a Member State, and the President of the European Parliament decides whether to refer the request to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and announces this decision in Parliament.
In this case, I had several reservations, since the President of the Spanish Supreme Court sent this request directly to me and, for several years, all requests to waive parliamentary immunity have been sent by the government of the Member State concerned, with the exception of Portugal, so we are very familiar with the process.
On the other hand, Mr Schulz, I can inform you that as soon as I receive the necessary clarification, as soon as the Council of State has come to a decision, which I hope will be very soon, as soon as the Spanish Government has informed me whether the President of the Supreme Court is competent in this area, and if it appears that he or she is indeed competent, I shall announce in Parliament, as soon as I can, that I am referring the request to waive the immunity of these two Members to the Legal Affairs Committee.
In essence, what you are trying to do, two months before the elections in Italy, is to engage in electoral posturing in the European Parliament in order to give a boost to your socialist friends in Italy! (Applause from the right) Mr Schulz, you were a bad loser in Austria, you and your party friends, and now you are up to the same tricks in Italy.
If I were the Council of State, I would write a letter asking the European Parliament whether the head of the President' s private office is the competent authority to establish what the competent authority is.
No, Mr Medina Ortega, you are slightly mistaken.
As you will see, this will actually be very interesting.
I believe that this really is a very significant issue and it is very important because it affects all the Members of a Parliament whose powers, we must admit, have increased.
But I would prefer not to continue this discussion with you during this debate, Madam President.
Yet, in the speech he made earlier against the Socialist Group, he insulted a member of my group, Armando Cossuta.
You have responded to my questions objectively and in a very focused way.
If you wish, we can arrange a meeting so that we can continue this debate.
I sometimes get the impression that his statements have more to do with the fact that there are local elections in Vienna on 25 March.
I, myself, am working on a specific case in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in which we have been requesting a statement from the German authorities for nine months and have still not received a reply.
My predecessor was not sure if the authority that asked if you could appear as a witness was actually the competent authority.
Madam President, I would like you and the rest of the House to be aware that the Committee on Fisheries approved a report on this issue last week which, I hope, will be presented to Parliament during the next part-session.
In the meantime, 57 people have been arrested.
The conflict in the Basque country bears some resemblance to that in Northern Ireland.
The Basque Country, which I come from, wants peace above all, and that peace can only be achieved through mutual democratic respect.
Madam President, I am not going to turn this into a procedural issue, but I would like to draw your attention to a situation which is taking place in Spain.
The company Sintel, which is a subsidiary of Telefónica, is in a very serious situation in which its 2 000 workers are currently shut in or camped out in the open air in particularly harsh conditions, demanding a fair solution in relation to their jobs.
Thank you, Mrs Morgantini.
The subject matter of this report is, as I am sure you realise, a real hot potato which has divided public opinion in numerous Member States of the European Union.
Without quoting specific examples, I need only say two particularly meaningful words, I need only refer to two particularly meaningful sites: La Hague in France and Sellafield in Great Britain, where radioactive material is processed.
There are four particularly important points in the report to which I should like to refer, as pointers, because we do not have as much time as we would like at our disposal.
This is the proximity principle and was the subject of a European Parliament resolution back in 1996.
Secondly, it is most important, as this report makes quite clear, that we cooperate with the Central and Eastern European countries and that they comply with International Atomic Energy Agency regulations, irrespective of whether or not enlargement takes place quickly - as we all hope it will - because there are problems in these countries which could jeopardise the health and safety of European citizens.
We are all in favour of freedom of expression for all European citizens, but it is important to avoid violence.
This, too, is highlighted in the report.
I should like to quote his comments that: "First, the Federal German Government's policy of ending electricity production at nuclear power stations after a further 32 years has shown clearly that, at least in the case of the transport of spent fuel elements, safety problems do not exist.
Mr President, today we must assess what this report is about, which is the safe transportation of radioactive materials.
We in the PSE felt, as I said earlier, that this was a report on the transportation of radioactive material and had nothing to do with the merits or demerits of the nuclear industry.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament has, once again, missed an opportunity to do some straight talking about nuclear energy.
Although the first report by Mr Maurice was never presented during the previous legislature, the report before us could have been a step forward but that will not happen.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism adopted a resolution, with the full support of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which reveals nothing of the concern about opinion on the extremely sensitive issues surrounding the transport of radioactive materials, whereas my original report was perfectly in tune with the changing views of European citizens on these issues.
So, despite the work we have done, the draft resolution before us runs counter to the original proposals and, as a Member of Parliament, I cannot agree to it appearing in a resolution; perhaps silence is tantamount to a crime.
Although on many points I had managed to achieve a fair number of compromises between Members who had worked on this matter and tabled amendments, all this work was smashed to pieces the day before the vote in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism when the main groups refused to vote in favour of our compromises.
The most recent development in the transport of highly radioactive materials is that waste from MOX-fuel processing plants is stored, quite illegally, in The Hague.
There is no point in seeking to curtail the debate, as the report is trying to do.
Mr President, I very much welcome this report on the transportation of radioactive material within the European Union.
Fighting British Nuclear Fuels and the British nuclear industry is never an easy task - I have been doing it for many years.
Trains loaded with spent nuclear fuel from three nuclear plants in the south-east of England regularly cross London bound for the BNFL plant at Sellafield.
They pass through seven boroughs, including West Hampstead, Islington, Hackney, Hammersmith, Fulham, Wandsworth and Bromley.
The setting up of this new Radioactive Trains Investigative Committee will hear evidence from British Nuclear Fuels and Railtrack, as well as from representatives from local community groups on this very issue.
The committee's foundation comes only a few days after a train carrying spent nuclear fuel flasks derailed as it arrived at the Torness power plant in Scotland.
I am pleased that the members of the Greater London Assembly are now equally concerned by the shipment of radioactive nuclear materials in England and, in particular, to the BNFL Sellafield plant in Cumbria.
I hope that politicians and local authorities in Ireland can join forces with members of the Greater London Assembly and other groups in England to intensify the battle to see that BNFL close down the nuclear white elephant of the Sellafield plant.
There has never been a fatality in the transportation of nuclear materials and, if the industry has its way, there never will be.
I am delighted that my amendments in committee were significant in changing the nature of this report.
I have tabled some more for the vote tomorrow, along similar lines.
No one would dispute that nuclear energy and the transport of nuclear waste fall within the competencies of the Member States.
The first version of the report was used as a chance for them to get on their hobbyhorse and oppose nuclear energy.
The Commission has consulted a working party made up of experts - not politicians, note - from Member States.
The Commission' s remark that the public ought to be told how good the situation is in the final analysis, is, therefore, more than justified.
The distinction between specific nuclear material and radioactive material in more general terms, however, is not clarified elsewhere in the text.
It would be useful if the Commission were to focus on the transport of nuclear material in the European Union, however.
We would like to emphasise that, in the interests of a consistently high safety level, the rules will have to be implemented by all Member States at the beginning of next year.
Basically, then, the transportation of nuclear material, as you have just mentioned, is often approached in a rather emotional fashion, considering the context and the environment in which this industry operates.
As several of you have pointed out in the course of the debate, the nuclear industry, like it or not, assumes a significant load in ensuring the security of our energy supply, and we must, therefore, accept the fact that this industry must undertake the transportation of radioactive material.
The key point we see in the report before you is the confirmation that the measures undertaken nationally and internationally provide a high level of safety in the transportation of this material.
That being the case, there is quite clearly a crucial need for transparency in this matter, as in all matters affecting the nuclear sector.
As our Green Paper "Towards a European strategy for the security of energy supply" emphasises, we feel that the Euratom Treaty fulfils its objectives in a whole range of areas.
That is what the Commission wished to say on the subject of this report.
It makes it possible to issue an informed opinion to the citizens of Europe and, following the many debates between us on this issue of the transportation of radioactive materials, we feel that it contributes to a reasoned approach to this activity, which will doubtless motivate improvements in terms of transparency, and we therefore consider this report to be most welcome.
The debate is closed.
With almost a 40% share of trade and services, the European Union has become an important negotiating partner worldwide, which bears responsibility in all areas of the WTO and which should involve all the industrialised and developing countries in this process.
So today, we want to fulfil this task and, with our recommendations on the WTO's Built-In Agenda, make our position clear to the citizens of Europe early on.
For example, structural funding for rural development belongs in the green box and thus ceases to be the subject of wrangling within the WTO.
We agree with the Commission's courageous proposal, which had our full support and which led to the Council of Ministers' recent decision to remove all trade barriers on all products from the world's 48 least developed countries.
We also advocate, however, the vigorous defence of the existing European model of agriculture based on multifunctionality.
Mr President, it is deplorable that the draftsman of the opinion on the most important chapter in these negotiations - agriculture - should only have two minutes to speak.
The first point to stress is that the negotiation of an agreement on trade in agricultural and food products only makes sense within a global agreement that also covers other sectors of the economy and other facets of society.
The second point to stress is that the European Union must be willing to make an extra effort to reduce internal support in market access and export subsidies.
In view of this situation, it is quite right that the European Union should be entitled to preserve its agricultural productive fabric, which is the basis for the economic vitality of its countryside.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, world trade is becoming increasingly significant.
In my view, the European Parliament has carried out very significant preparatory work in this area, but we should also give careful thought to the structure of our economy.
I should like to stress three points in this report that I believe are essential.
A second point I should like to mention has to do with the protection of intellectual property, and particularly paragraph 28, which points to the limited scope of the negotiations on protection of intellectual property under the Built-In Agenda.
This, of course, is directed at Commissioner Pascal Lamy.
Although what Arlindo Cunha said is true, that "the primary function of agriculture is production" , it is no less true that this production must be encouraged with quality in mind.
Therefore, when we assert the multifunctional role of agriculture, we must recognise that this priority must also include the strictest public health measures as well as consumer protection and support.
I believe this is an essential role that Parliament needs to highlight at this time.
Paragraph 9 of the draft report talks about the need to preserve the peace clause and special safeguard clause for a provisional period.
I wonder if you really feel there is an opportunity for you and the US to find new common ground in the agriculture talks.
Finally, you will not be surprised to hear that I wish to stress the importance of the latter part of paragraph 40.
Mr President, I find the report by our fellow Member, Mr Schwaiger to be generally positive.
In this instance it is not a matter of bartering trade concessions in return for environmental or social clauses, but rather of taking a different tack in negotiating on trade in order to ensure that it is in better accord with the societal models and state regulation requirements.
In this respect, the talks scheduled in the Built-In Agenda are a test, which brings me to my second point.
There is, admittedly, an increased awareness that trade in agricultural products must be compatible with independence in terms of food supply, public health and land use, yet we are at a disadvantage due to the postponement of reform in the common agricultural policy until after 2006.
The Commission, moreover, states that trade policy is not a goal in itself, but it must help support the social model.
Yet, in our social model there are services of general interest, and in developing countries such general interest services have yet to be formed.
Finally, I would like to express my appreciation of the sound work done by the rapporteur.
The failure of Seattle was an initial indicator of this, but opinion has developed apace since then, particularly under the impetus of a number of agricultural crises.
Admittedly, the 1999 negotiating mandate already took into consideration the requirement for a multifunctional agriculture and an agricultural policy incorporating concerns unrelated to trade.
As the European Union is not only an economic community but also a community of values, we should continue to promote this approach beyond the Union's borders as well.
The second point which I should like to raise is this, you have produced a document which indicates that you would like to see greater flexibility in the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
Does this document signal a move away from that?
Mr President, the report on the WTO negotiating package quite rightly calls for agricultural issues to be retained as an essential element of the negotiating mandate within the framework of the existing agreement.
There must be no trade-off of concessions in the agricultural sector in exchange for concessions in other negotiating areas.
Adopting and guaranteeing a high level of consumer protection in the EU makes substantial demands on agriculture in particular, and is the main prerequisite for fair trade in agricultural products without border controls.
The issues of food safety and rural employment, consumer protection and the environment, as well as the sparing use of all resources, are viewed in different ways by the various actors, who also afford them different political priority.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly on his report.
Mr President, just a couple of small points at the outset: clearly the Seattle Ministerial Conference failed to agree on a new round because developing countries refused to proceed with trade liberalisation.
Secondly, we need in this Parliament to be much more aware of the need to monitor international obligations, in particular since no reference has been made here today to the ACP-EU Cotonou Agreement and its agricultural trade protocols.
Mr President, the growing concern of peoples regarding the implications of the worldwide liberalisation of trade, which was so clearly present in the Seattle demonstrations and the Porto Alegre world social forum, is reflected to some degree in this report, which highlights the need for transparency in the way negotiations are prepared and conducted, enhanced parliamentary control, and respect for the precautionary principle and the principle of sustainable development.
With regard to agriculture too, although it includes certain changes made by the Committee on Agriculture specifically to ensure food safety and food quality, it does not take into account other major amendments, such as the one we tabled on the review of the Blair House agreement, with particular regard to protein-rich plants, given the BSE crisis and the part played by animal meal.
It also means, however, that the European Union cannot dump its many surpluses with high export subsidies at global market prices in order to disrupt or even destroy markets elsewhere.
That is amply demonstrated by the current agricultural crisis which we are witnessing here in the European Union.
We must, therefore, focus primarily on the European internal market, and those who wish to produce for the global market should do so, of course, but they should do so without subsidies and support from the European Union.
One thing must be clear: food safety and consumer protection must have absolute priority.
Basically, the considerations and concerns you express in this report are broadly in line with those of the Commission which, of course, as some of you have said, go beyond the scope of the Built-In Agenda which is our current objective in Geneva.
We have presented proposals in this respect and we shall continue to debate the issue in the multilateral negotiations.
That is part of our agenda.
We think this non-aggression pact is beneficial to all parties and that is something that all parties should bear in mind when this issue is raised next time, that is, at the end of 2003.
The agreements already signed or yet to be signed under GATS, the General Agreement on Trade in Services, do not commit European States to a policy of privatisation or deregulation.
I shall not comment on the case in question, since it is sub judice and it is not customary for the Commission to comment on such cases, but I would like to give you a clear explanation of the Commission' s policy on the issue of transmissible diseases affecting developing countries.
The agreement permits, and makes provision for, such flexibility and our position on this continues to be what I have been stating in public for several weeks - all the agreement and nothing but the agreement.
We have indeed started to readjust our pre-Seattle mandate in the light of the concerns expressed by a number of developing countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, the next phase before us is the Conference of Ministers in Qatar, from 9 to 13 November, this year.
My intention is to adhere to the practice we established for Seattle in terms of the membership of your own delegation, and in Qatar I shall be counting on the active participation of some of the Members of this House in promoting what appear to be, according to this report, our common objectives.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament has to decide on the proposal for a Council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector.
To clarify the reasons for this situation, I think I ought to point out that the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector is atypical in more ways than one.
Throughout the debates leading up to this report, there were many participants who took the opportunity to highlight the artificial nature of the Community price in relation to the world price.
Firstly, we have to put into context any reference to a world price, since it cannot be seen as representative of the transactions actually carried out.
Secondly, the objectivity which the European Parliament must display in this matter leads me to point out that, in real terms, the Community price has been in a steady decline for around fifteen years.
Moreover, 75% of sugar is consumed in the form of processed products.
I should note, moreover, that such products are no more expensive in the European Union than they are in other countries.
My second observation is that several studies refer to the lack of competition within the European Union in the sugar sector.
Finally, to my last observation regarding the effects upon the Community market and the ACP countries of the decision adopted 15 days ago by the Council on the initiative for the Least Developed Countries.
Basically, I think that, for the ACP countries, this initiative will have significant implications, which have not been assessed clearly by the Commission.
That is why both the studies which the Commission wishes to undertake in the context of a reform of the COM in sugar and the assessment it is to undertake in 2005 of the transitional phase of the LDC initiative are of fundamental importance.
We believe that sugar should, in the first place, be treated as any other arable product.
That is why it is now also necessary to have a longer period of validity, of at least five years, as the rapporteur, Mr Daul, has said.
They also protect consumer interests in terms of both prices and quality specifications.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission has tabled a proposal for a common organisation of the market in sugar which must be seen as an extension to the requirement under the GATT agreements that the EU gradually reduces its export support for agricultural products, especially sugar, under guarantee of production quotas.
This system of quotas expires at the end of the production year on 30 June 2001, and the Commission proposes that the current system be continued for a period of two years, with certain changes of limited scope.
The Commission proposes that the price be kept at the same level but that the quotas be reduced by 115 000 tons.
We therefore support the Committee on Budgets' amendments in relation to the financial perspectives in Agenda 2000, and we wish to extend the organisation of the market to 2005/2006.
I am in favour of the quantities being laid down so that we do not have cyclical trade here, however.
Because these transitional measures form part of systematic cuts across the board... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I also welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to the debate on the common organisation of the market in sugar.
The common organisation of the market in sugar has already undergone several reforms, including an agreement to reduce quotas by 500 000 tonnes for the 2000-2001 marketing year.
In addition, institutional prices for sugar have declined continuously since 1985 by 36% in real terms.
It is important for Parliament to put down a marker with regard to the Commission's efforts to draw back prematurely from decisions taken in Berlin, which, in the case of the sugar regime, were to remain in place until 2006.
Mr President, the EU' s organisation of the market in sugar is far and away the most protectionist in the world.
Mr President, this report represents a huge missed opportunity.
This report demonstrates how powerful the farming lobby is, although pressure for reform is mounting, not just from European citizens but also from far-sighted farmers themselves, who recognise that the current regime is clearly unsustainable in the long term.
It has remained unaltered for 32 years and its highly protectionist nature has kept the EU sugar price at three times the world level, discriminating unfairly against consumers and damaging the competitiveness of the industry.
We have sadly been bombarded by a series of unfounded claims on storage levy and the ACP, ignoring the fact that the money saved could actually be redirected towards other agricultural expenditure.
Rapporteur Daul does not breathe a word about this report by the Court of Auditors.
The net costs of over-production in 2000 amounted to EUR 800 million, almost as much as the sum which we agreed on a few weeks ago to combat the BSE crisis.
This translates into an annual cost of EUR 30 million.
Moreover, the consumer is faced with a market in which only five companies hold more than 50% of the EU quota.
Mr President, the Commission is making carefully-worded proposals to reform the common organisation of the market in sugar, pending a more drastic reform in 2003.
Ninety per cent of the costs incurred in the European sugar budget of EUR 800 million benefit these countries.
I would argue a little bit with you on that because I believe it is unique.
Mr President, extending the present European sugar regime is the best solution for producers, consumers and developing countries.
With regard to the ability of 48 of the poorest countries to access the EU market, we should do better to opt for a kind of ACP formula, rather than state before the event that a policy will be wiped out completely with this measure.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months, we have examined the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector in great detail and have held intensive and controversial discussions, not only with the Commission, but with all those who are in favour of total liberalisation of the sugar market.
It shows that, although farmers are seeing prices fall by up to 30%, the consumer still pays the same price for the meat in the shops.
They are an important instrument to keep the market stable and they have proved their worth over 30 years.
The first study will examine concentration and competition conditions in the sugar sector, but not only in this sector, also in other large sectors of the agricultural and food industries.
Finally, production refunds for sugar used in the chemical industry are, in the future, to be provided by the sector itself.
Amendments Nos 3, 4, 23, 24, 31 and 56 seek to leave the basic quotas and the estimated maximum supply requirements of the refining industry unchanged.
Amendments Nos 1, 5, 8, 12, 13, 19, 25, 27, 28, 30, 39 and 40 seek to maintain the compensation for storage levies.
I cannot accept this either because the abolition of the compensation system will create increased competition, remove the incentive to produce C sugar and, in addition, bring considerable savings of budgetary resources.
Amendments Nos 6, 21 and 40 provide for the minimum stock system to be kept.
Amendments Nos 19, 14, 37 and 38 seek to make it possible once again for Italy, Spain and Portugal to grant national aid.
As far as Amendments Nos 33, 63, 64, 66, 76 and 77 are concerned, I can assure you that the Commission will make every effort to ensure the necessary coherence between the sugar proposals and development policy.
Amendments such as Amendment No 20 for example, in which a derogation from the concept of a refinery is sought for the Azores, or Amendment No 36, which seeks to have quotas adjusted in order to fulfil the WTO requirements, must also be rejected.
Commissioner, thank you for your comprehensive response.
The debate is closed.
The subject was debated a number of times within the committee and, on 14 April 2000, a year ago now, Commissioner Reding informed us that she was going to present a communication, a project, a strategy, but, so far, nothing has happened.
Well then, the issue of communication - as you see, Commissioner, this is not a piece of make-believe but something which is innate in the nature of the relationship between the institutions and the citizens and in the will to build a Europe of the citizens as well as an institutional Europe - is closely linked to a strategy, to a genuine communication project which, I regret to have to say, on behalf of the Committee, is lacking, despite the numerous debates which I have called for and which have taken place in committee and, quite frankly, despite the appeals made by all the groups to Commissioner Reding and President Prodi.
We are appealing once again, this evening, to you, Mr Monti, for the motive for the question is linked precisely to this issue.
The large communication centres such as those in Paris, Lisbon or Rome, which are often supplemented by regional and local networks, are a good example of cooperation between the institutions and the Member States, and they are points of reference for public information.
This action is part of the continuation of Dialogue on Europe, an action in which the European Parliament has participated fully.
The year 2001 will see the launch of studies on the cost-effectiveness of the Representations.
Finally, Mr President, with regard to the eighth and last point, the Commission has instructed its Press and Communication Service to develop a new initiative on cooperation between Parliament and the Commission in terms of information.
There have been initial agreements between the Commission and the Member States on huge information campaigns about the euro.
The Commission's appropriation for information is currently EUR 90 million, that is the equivalent of one copy of a newspaper per citizen per year.
The size of the task in hand means that every Member State will have to bear the cost of the investment which is allocated to it, seeing as the provision of information on Europe concerns all the authorities.
Mr President, Commissioner, you had a rather thankless task, my dear Mr Monti.
In my view there is much more to be done in this field.
You said it yourself.
So let us not reinvent the wheel, but let us deploy all those who really are able to convey the concept of Europe with local colour, and not only the bit of Europe that is in Brussels!
Mr President, Commissioner Monti, we all realise that we are facing a crisis in terms of our press and communications policy for the Union's institutions.
I very much believe that although we are an elected House and the Commission is not, and although the Commission has one part of the policy process and we have another, we in fact have shared interests.
I regret that it has taken until now to get a communication on this issue.
In my own country, my party is famed for its spin-doctors.
I am not necessarily advocating such a development in the European Union but we must look - and that is why I welcome your words Commissioner - at the whole question of public relations.
During the hearings of the new Commission in September 1999, Romano Prodi said, and I quote: "...the new Commission will be putting much more effort into communicating properly with the citizens of Europe, giving them open access to information" .
The key words where the EU' s information policy is concerned must be decentralisation and coordination, including in exchanges of information between the Commission and Parliament.
Commissioner, this task has now become a matter of urgency.
Mr President, I am speaking in this debate in my capacity as Vice-President of Parliament, responsible for information and communication, and also as co-chairman of the interinstitutional group on information and communication.
Mr Monti, you have told us that the Commission attaches great importance to information and communication policy.
Frankly, Commissioner, in this area, the Commission compares very badly with a tortoise.
I suppose that he is also aware of the trends in participation in European elections over the last decade, and I suppose that he is aware of the vicious campaign being waged against the European Union and its institutions by very powerful sections of the media in certain Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my impatience is growing, not only as a Member of this House, but also as rapporteur for the information campaign and as a Member of the Interinstitutional Committee.
A few days ago, Commissioner Barnier deferred answering the question about whether he would be taking over responsibility for this.
We do not need a re-nationalisation of information policy.
The Commission is not simply a channel for EU funds... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, my hearty thanks to all the speakers in this important debate.
I would add that the transfer operation from DG EAC to DG PRESS involved the transfer of 104 people and EUR 90 million, dedicated to public information.
Regarding information networks, particularly the larger information centres, such as Sources d'Europe in Paris, or the Jacques Delors Information Centre in Lisbon, parliamentary information and visibility are ensured, even though the Commission is forced to note that Parliament has not responded to its repeated calls to become involved in the administrative structure of these centres as a fully committed partner.
I conclude with one reference to a small part of communication policy which I happen to know best because it is in my area, competition policy.
The debate is closed.
On the other hand, the demands made by the European Parliament in its resolution of 14 December of last year have so far, either, not been met at all, or, only to an insufficient extent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my speech this evening by pointing out some of the facts.
Finally, public aid for shipbuilding is now no longer possible in Europe, as was confirmed by the Council of Ministers on 5 December.
This evening, then, I would like to ask you in the strongest terms, Mr Monti, to please outline just what you intend to propose, in response to the requests from the Council of 5 December, in order to facilitate the return to forms of aid for research and development, to support and undertake commercial measures against unfair competition by Korea and, finally, to propose an appropriate temporary aid mechanism, while awaiting the outcome of the procedure in the WTO.
The Commission has very good statistical data about the dramatic situation in eastern Germany, Commissioner.
But in the specific case of the shipbuilding industry, the decision lies, above all, with the Commission.
The Commission feels that unfair competition practices in the international shipbuilding sector need to be tackled by means of appropriate mechanisms.
This means, first and foremost, through talks and, as a last resort, in the WTO.
Should the current international talks fail to lead to a solution, the Commission has undertaken to refer the matter to the Council by 1 May and to propose a temporary protective support mechanism.
This does not mean reintroducing the former provisions on operating aid laid down in Article 3 of Regulation 1540/98.
The third report from the Commission to the Council on the situation of world shipbuilding states clearly that the operating aid arrangements under said regulation have not provided a solution to the international trade problems.
It is precisely the typical negative consequences of operating aid that have led the Commission to express a generally negative opinion on this type of aid.
Shipbuilding was the last industrial sector in which this type of aid was still authorised.
This is why, in its decision of 29 November, the Commission decided not to extend the operating aid provided for in Article 3 of Regulation 1540/98.
The third report from the Commission to the Council on the situation of world shipbuilding, which I have just mentioned, confirmed that contract-related aid involved a range of negative effects on the single market.
The capacity restraints were established for a period of ten years, which is until the end of 2005.
The legislative framework applicable to the restraints, however, does stipulate that, after the first five years, a Member State may request that the Commission bring the restraints in question to an end or review them.
With regard to the question of whether the Commission intends to avail itself of the possibility provided for by the legislation in question to assess whether a review of the capacity restraints would be justified, I would stress that the Commission's leeway in a decision on this matter is extremely limited.
I am willing to examine any proposals made in this area.
The Commission must adopt a strong position on this issue and unequivocally defend our industry, by approving, as soon as possible, an ambitious plan which provides aid for operations, research and development and, of course, environmental aid.
Finally, I must point out that it is our duty to guarantee an atmosphere of fair competition on a world scale so that this industry, on which so many families in Europe, Spain and in my region, the Basque Country, depend, may move forward.
While the second report clearly outlines the inadequacies of China's development in this area - poor management, corruption etc.
Mr President, the Belfast shipyard Harland &amp; Wolff is a famous shipyard which used to employ 27 000 workers and now employs just over 1 000.
There is something else, however, of vital importance to this Parliament: is this unfair competition now being introduced here?
The company made a very interesting statement after Harland &amp; Wolff were turned down.
I know from my own experience - I have just been to China and Hong Kong - that other nations are observing us and that our attitude is setting them a bad example.
It is in actual fact about the new image of a modern European Union.
It was unhelpful vis-à-vis the Korean threat and harmful to our own single market.
The fact that it was unhelpful relative to the Korean threat is more than demonstrated by the facts.
The Korean threat has persisted in spite of the contract-related operating aid.
Let us have a look at the list of those other forms of aid providing an incentive effect to EU shipyards which are still there after 1 January 2001 under Council Regulation 1540: aid for environmental protection in line with the general Community guidelines for such aid, aid for research and development in line with the general Community framework for such aid and I have already underlined this, aid for innovation which is not allowed in any other industrial sector except the automobile sector, regional investment aid for upgrading and modernising existing yards, but not involving the creation of new capacity, subject to certain caps below the normal regional aid ceilings, aid for rescue and restructuring in line with the general Community guidelines for such aid, subject to certain stricter provisions, aid for partial and total closures contingent on genuine and irreversible reductions of capacity.
We are working very hard on it both in terms of a strong negotiating posture and in terms of preparing, if necessary, the introduction of a temporary defence mechanism which, being more focused, would also be more productive than the old-fashioned system that has been scrapped as it had to be.
