It should be pointed out, however, that the Commission proposal of July 2008 already provides an option for Member States to apply these reduced VAT rates on services involving the renovation, repair, alteration and maintenance of housing, places of worship and of cultural heritage, and historical monuments.
However, the reformed Stability and Growth Pact also allows for longer deadlines in the case of special circumstances - in accordance with Article 34 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97.
However, when preparing a report under Article 143 of the Treaty triggered by the existence or the planned excessive deficit, the Commission is required by the Treaty to take into account what are known as 'relevant factors'.
The Ecofin adopted its opinion on these reports this morning.
In reply to the third question, on whether there are any Member States without excessive deficits, there are, of course, certain Member States without excessive deficits, as can be seen in the charts which the Commission regularly publishes.
The second effectively proposes that all the Member States should align their information exchange standards to the most open level, particularly by ensuring that Member States cannot use financial confidentiality as an excuse to refuse to provide information that other Member States need in order to calculate their residents' taxes.
In May 2008, the Council decided to promote this policy of good fiscal governance to third countries, including the principles of transparency, exchange of information and fair fiscal competition, and it asked the Commission to negotiate clauses to this effect in agreements with third countries.
Then there is Jersey, Guernsey, the Isle of Man - which are in the UK but outside the EU - Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino, etc.
Member of the Commission. - In answer to the first question, the Commission has proposed two new directives in order to solve these problems because the financial crisis has highlighted the problems more clearly than before.
We made a proposal at the end of 2008 and another one at the beginning of 2009, the former reinforcing the information exchange and the latter enshrining the right of a Member State to obtain information without the other Member State invoking banking secrecy.
Subject: The Internet and hate crimes Incitement to racial hatred is a crime in all EU Member States.
However, according to the 2008 Hate Crime Survey published by the NGO Human Rights First, hate crimes are on the rise in Europe, and it is important to see the central role that the Internet plays in this.
Member of the Commission. - The question which was asked is very important, and I would like to underline that the Commission strongly rejects the racism, xenophobia and any type of hate speech the honourable Member refers to.
The Member States have an obligation to comply with those provisions by 28 November 2010.
I think Parliament well knows the Safer Internet Plus Programme, with a budget of EUR 55 million for the period 2009-2013, which co-funds projects with the following objectives: increased public awareness, provision of a network of contact points for reporting illegal and harmful content and conduct, in particular, on child sexual abuse material, grooming and cyber-bullying, fostering of self-regulatory initiatives in this field and involving children in creating a safer online environment, establishing a knowledge base of the new trends in the use of online technologies and their consequences for children's lives.
In its communication on media literacy of December 2007, the Commission calls on Member States to commit to more effectively promoting media literacy and research in this field.
Well, that is easily said and not so easily done because we do have a real digital divide here.
However, I want to ask you what you are doing to develop online services.
Now it is true that those services or those items specially adapted to the older generation are being kept on the home market, because the market is not yet developed very strongly and they are still too expensive.
Questions Nos 37 and 40 will receive answers in writing.
I can tell you not only that those questions have been asked but also that the Commission has taken action in this area.
I would also like to draw attention to the Framework Decision on combating certain forms of expression of racism and xenophobia, which aims at criminalising intentional conduct, such as incitement to violence or hatred towards a group of people or against a person belonging to that group.
This is a criminal offence if committed by public dissemination or distribution of tracts, pictures or other material, and here, Member States have the obligation to comply with the provisions of the Framework Decision by 28 November 2010.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The prospects of Serbia joining the European Union depend on this country meeting the Copenhagen accession criteria, as well as the conditions set out as part of the Stabilisation and Association Process, including the condition to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
However, Serbia is not a candidate country and has not, as yet, requested to join the European Union.
At the present time, Serbia is at a certain point where no application has been submitted yet to join the European Union.
Furthermore, Commissioner Rehn has taken every opportunity to call on the Serbian authorities to implement fully the recommendations made by the chief prosecutor in his report published in December 2008 and sent to the UN Security Council.
Member of the Commission. - You are aware that in the Council, there are different opinions concerning this issue and you know that there is no unanimity concerning the position of the Council on this issue.
Questions Nos 43 and 44 will receive answers in writing.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The Commission has noted the use of properties belonging to Greek Cypriots in the northern part of Cyprus.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission has always encouraged Turkey to implement all the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights.
Questions Nos 47 and 48 will receive answers in writing.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The European Commission considers that Turkey is sufficiently prepared to initiate negotiations on the Energy chapter and therefore recommended for this chapter to be opened in spring 2007.
Member of the Commission. - These are the rules.
Member of the Commission. - The two questions by Mrs Harkin and Mr Ó Neachtain mainly concern the same subject.
We can see that we are faced with a significant drop in the world market prices although Europe has not increased its production, despite the 2% increase in the milk quota which was agreed for last April.
So I think I can say to those people who argue that the drop in prices is due to the increase in the quota that this is not the case, because we can see that in spite of the 2% increase in the quota, production is staying at a lower level than we used to see before.
Would the Commissioner not agree that we have four problems: firstly, the rate of exchange between the euro and the pound sterling; secondly, the reduction in production as a result of the melamine scandal in Asia and in China; thirdly, the 3% increase in production in the United States and, last but by no means least, our old enemy, Brazil?
