A European strategy on the Roma (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission by Jan Marinus Wiersma, Hannes Swoboda, Katalin Lévai, Adrian Severin and Jan Andersson, on behalf of the PSE Group, on a European Roma strategy (O-0081/2007/rev. 1 - B6-0389/2007) the oral question to the Commission by Viktória Mohácsi, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on a European Roma strategy - B6-0003/2008) the oral question to the Commission by Lívia Járóka, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on a European Community Action Plan on Roma - B6-0004/2008) the oral question to the Commission by Roberta Angelilli, on behalf of the UEN Group, on a European Roma strategy - B6-0005/2008) author. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office, many documents, including the 2005 Decision of the European Parliament on the Roma, the 2004 study by the European Commission, the report on Roma women by the European Parliament Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and the EUROSTAT action plan of 2003 were clearly drafted in order to solve the untenable situation of European Roma.
It is important that the Commissioners who are directly or indirectly responsible for the integration and inclusion of minorities coordinate their activities through their education, employment, equal opportunities, regional and development portfolios and, developing into a technical working group, prepare the 2008 action plan for Roma affairs in cooperation with Parliament and civil society, and they must start implementing that plan as soon as possible.
author. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the report on an EU strategy on the rights of the child was adopted.
Available data show that in some Member States early school leaving by Roma children exceeds 60%.
It is clear that children who do not go to school, who are illiterate or in any case have an inadequate level of education or vocational training, are children who have no future, but are forced to beg or to work on the black market.
These citizens are living in conditions that are in most cases unacceptable.
We are also pleased that the European Council devoted attention to the situation of the Roma at the Brussels Summit, and asked the Commission to present more specific proposals for what the European Union itself can do to supplement the policy of Member States with large Roma communities, what we can do in the way of coordination and exchange of best practices, and how the available EU resources can be better deployed in those countries via the funds in order to do something about the situation of the Roma.
author. - (HU) Thank you very much.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this Parliament drew attention to the lack of integration of the Roma back in 1983.
It also asked the Commission, the Council and the governments of the Member States in a Resolution of 1994 to do everything in the interests of the social, economic and political integration of the Roma.
We know from the news - or we would not particularly have heard about it - that on the night of 4 January 2008, a slum in the Marconi district of Rome, with approximately 250 Roma living there, was set on fire, and then, three days later, also in Italy, Molotov cocktails were thrown at the local gipsy settlement in Aprilia, directly threatening the lives of several hundred people.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Járóka, Mrs Angelilli, Mr Wiersma and Mrs Mohácsi for raising these issues, which I am dealing with on behalf of my colleague, Vladimír Špidla, because he is currently in China, and this gives us the opportunity to talk things through on this extremely important subject.
These range from the European Parliament's decision in 2005 to introduce the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All to the work of the high-ranking group of experts on the integration of ethnic minorities and the European Economic and Social Committee as well as the conclusions accepted just recently by December's European Council, to which reference has just been made.
It is obvious that employment and social policy programmes and measures are not being adequately used to promote the social integration of the Roma.
We therefore need to concentrate all our efforts primarily on improving access to these measures with a targeted plan.
At the same time we are offering to organise a high-level Roma forum, aimed at bringing together representatives of national governments and parliaments, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions as well as leading figures from Roma civil society and other important players.
I should also add - to respond directly to a question from Mrs Mohácsi - that the Commission intends to submit the proposal in 2008 for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment beyond employment, i.e.
on behalf of PPE-DE. - (RO) I think that the organisation of this debate in plenary session is extremely important as it is necessary to draw up a balance sheet of the European actions on Roma population and to analyse the methods of enhancing the efficiency thereof.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, many thanks for your reply, which met us half-way in at least some points.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, the current situation of the Roma forces me to begin with a criticism, which is that the European Commission has been slow and lazy in dealing with Roma issues in Europe.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commissioner for what she has said and for the commitments she has made, which also seem to me to be in line with what the European Parliament has said on many occasions in its resolutions, but these promises to act are not enough in themselves.
When we transpose this, all these aims, to the Roma minority in Europe, we find astonishingly high unemployment.
The Commission has in fact initiated infringement procedures in the past year against 22 Member States that have not implemented the European regulations properly, including Italy, Mr Agnoletto.
Between 2000 and 2006, approximately 275 million euros, for example, were earmarked for projects targeted specifically at integrating the Roma.
I have, of course, heard that many of you - not all - would like a certain Commissioner to take on this subject and I shall, of course, convey this to my colleague, Mr Špidla.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 31 January 2008.
