A facility providing financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments - Financial support to Member States (debate) The next item is the joint debate: on the report by Mrs Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 332/2002 establishing a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments - C6-0389/2008 -; the Commission statement on financial support to Member States.
I believe, finally, that the plan implemented for a balance of payments assistance facility, on the basis of Article 119, achieved on the initiative of the Commission and Mr Almunia, whom I thank, will allow an appropriate solution to be found jointly with the IMF.
Finally, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I asked for the tools and processes of Article 100 of the Treaty to enable us to act to support some Member States more widely, and not just on balance of payments problems.
Yesterday and again today we have discussed the problems caused by this situation and, unfortunately, there are some EU Member States which are outside the euro area and whose macroeconomic and financial imbalances are putting them in a particularly vulnerable position, given market pressures.
I would say, however, that I can make a positive comment because the European Union has finally, after a lot of searching - which was far from easy - discovered Article 119 and the legal basis on which it can provide such assistance.
If I have heard correctly, until now the European Union did not entirely have the power - though in my view it does have a voice - to tell these countries to 'be careful, do not allow the population and businesses to run up endless and irrational debts in foreign currency, because there could be trouble if there is a crisis', and so the problem has indeed arisen.
As far as the Hungarian report is concerned, its 2006 analysis began with an improving situation.
This EUR 25 billion ceiling, I would like to observe, seems very low.
It would be very important, of course, for the European Parliament to be involved and at the same time to act speedily.
Third, this being the case, we must definitely support raising the ceiling of Community financial assistance to EUR 25 billion for each Member State not in the euro area, because only a ceiling this high will guarantee the effectiveness of any assistance granted by the Community.
Fourth, should a Member State outside the euro area need immediate financial support, the Council, European Commission and Parliament should act with sufficient speed to prevent confidence in their effectiveness being undermined.
Fifth and last, we welcome the European Commission's rapid response to Hungary's financial needs, granted in spite of the fact that Hungary had in the first instance approached the International Monetary Fund and not the European Commission.
This has, in that case, been created by the European Union itself, of course.
Well, the problem is that, if these countries are members of the European Union - which they should be - but are not members of the monetary union - which they should not be - then they are to be forced, as you intend, to keep a fixed exchange rate with the euro.
I would therefore like to point out that, while we are discussing whether we should set aside EUR 25 billion for this purpose, it is a purpose that is actually not at all necessary.
Those countries that are members of the EU but have not joined the monetary union should maintain a regime with a floating exchange rate.
Then the problem disappears. - (SK) The limit for mutual assistance to an EU Member State that is not a member of the euro area and that is experiencing balance of payment difficulties or is facing the risk of serious problems as a result of an overall disequilibrium in its balance of payments is currently EUR 12 billion.
I also support, however, the opinion of the European Parliament that there is no need to create a special process allowing the Commission to revise this limit outside the usual decision-making procedures.
First, I should like to point out that countries not in the euro area are not required to maintain a fixed exchange rate with the euro.
The amount of EUR 25 billion proposed by the Commission seems reasonable, though of course there could be situations requiring more money, and therefore I also support the proposal to grant the Commission the right to decide to revise the ceiling where there is an urgent need to do so.
Finally, I think that the proposal should not refer to Article 100 of the Treaty.
Article 100 deals with quite different situations and should therefore be treated separately. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
However, the EUR 20 billion which we needed in support, or financing, would not have been possible from that source alone.
Thank you for your attention. (DE) Mr President, the proposal concerning amending the Regulation on assistance for Member States which are not part of the euro area, in order to increase the ceiling from EUR 12 to 25 billion, if they are hit by grave payment difficulties, has been made at the last moment.
The primary requirement for ensuring that these ad hoc measures work is that the EU does not make the same mistakes as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) with respect to counter demands.
I would like to remind you that Hungary is the country that has used the budget deficit to the greatest degree: minus 5%.
This is precisely what we need in Hungary: more purchasing power.
I think it is most important that something happens swiftly to restore confidence and capital to the banking system. . - (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have this opportunity this evening to discuss such an important issue, the economic crisis, which is affecting not only Member States, but the whole world.
I believe that this European financial assistance fund for Member States needs to be increased to at least EUR 25 billion for one reason: we need to save this market economy.
Ladies and gentlemen, if the economies of Germany and France were to grow by 2 and 3 percent, that would pose no problem for those of us who have integrated into the common market.
The case of Hungary is very positive in this sense, given the major budgetary adjustment that has occurred in that country between 2006 and now.
In 2008 the deficit will be clearly below this figure, in fact it will be below 3%, and in the commitment made by Hungary as a condition of this help, the target deficit for next year is 2.6%.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have four comments.
I believe that the European Parliament has shown that it can come up to the mark.
My final comment is to note with you that, in this crisis, everyone believed that there would be two channels for transmitting the crisis, the complex financial markets on one hand and, on the other, the real economy.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 November 2008.
