Single European Sky (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission on building the single European sky through functional airspace blocks final) by Paolo Costa, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism - B6-0135/2007).
This is a particularly sensitive issue, with reservations on the part of the Member States, which have always reaffirmed their sovereignty over their airspace.
Mr Costa is therefore putting the following question to the Commission.
The Commission has just produced a communication making it clear that the cost of not having functional airspace blocks for building a Single European Sky is about EUR 1 billion.
Article 10 of the Regulation provides for an extension of airspace organisation to lower airspace and requires the Commission to determine any other steps that might be necessary 'in the light of progress achieved'.
The reform in March 2004 was intended to organise air traffic in line with operational requirements, not national borders.
The 2004 reform has been implemented: separation between regulation and the provision of services, certification of providers in accordance with European rules, air traffic controllers' licences and a range of technical measures adopted by comitology.
Back in December 2006, I consulted a group of high-level experts and this July they presented their report to me on the reforms that are imperative.
The Commission will be submitting a communication based on that this autumn.
We shall not, of course, be waiting until 2009 to accelerate the creation and efficiency of the functional blocks.
Member States have not met the obligation that has existed since 2004 rapidly to create functional airspace blocks.
On the one hand that results in the costs you referred to of up to EUR 3 billion, and on the other hand it also leads to environmental pollution.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I am so long in this Parliament that I recall the occasion when Commissioner de Palacio first proposed the Single European Sky and the term 'functional airspace blocks' first entered EU vocabulary.
Well, after a painful birth, progress was made in 2004 with the regulation that enacted these airspace blocks, but I have to say that since then progress has been painfully slow, particularly in regard to the extension of those airspace blocks and specifically as regards lower airspace.
Shannon Airport - a hub in its own right - and regional airports like Cork are being starved of routes, while Dublin Airport is chronically overcrowded.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, I appreciate and share the impatience expressed by Parliament.
