The rule of law and respect for human rights and the fundamental freedoms are fundamental principles for cooperation within the European Union.
The key legislative acts in the area of asylum are the Dublin Regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection, the Reception Directive, which lays down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers, the Qualification Directive, which concerns minimum standards for when a third country national should be regarded as in need of international protection, and the Asylum Procedure Directive on minimum standards on procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing international protection.
With regard to the fundamental rights of those who do not have the right to stay within the Union, I would like to refer, firstly, to the general legal principles that must form the basis for all of the EU's activities and, secondly and more specifically, to the rules that apply to the return of third-country nationals who do not have the right to enter and stay legally in a Member State.
The Council Decision on the organisation of joint flights for removals of third-country nationals who have not been granted a residence permit or asylum was adopted in 2002 within the framework of the return action programme.
In October of this year, the European Council also called on Frontex to examine the possibility of financing joint flights for removals.
Moreover, the Member States are bound to ensure that no return operations are carried out in violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which obliges the Member States to guarantee that a person will not be sent back to his country if he is liable to suffer persecution or serious attack upon his return.
In the first half of 2009, almost 50% of Afghan asylum seekers received international protection in the European Union, compared with less than 30% in the last quarter of 2008.
In my recent statement on the operation to return Afghans to Kabul, conducted jointly by the United Kingdom and France, I indicated that the Member States had to take three precautions before returning an individual to a third country such as Afghanistan.
It is also important to stress that all of the countries that are targeted by illegal immigration networks originating in Afghanistan or Iraq implement forced return measures.
There is no longer any political disagreement within the Union on these issues, and it is this consensus that will make it possible, in the near future, to carry out joint return operations funded by Frontex.
Therefore, I should like to point out that group return operations are something totally different from collective expulsions according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights.
The first concerns the deportation of 27 Afghans to Kabul, as part of the group deportation organised by France and the United Kingdom.
The Commission has just told us that it was unable to guarantee that these deportations were carried out upon verification that the persons concerned had not submitted an application for international protection, or indeed in compliance with each stage of this procedure of examining their application, if it exists.
The second example concerns the deportation by Germany, Belgium and Austria of Roma to Kosovo, with which these countries have concluded readmission agreements even though the UNHCR, in its guidelines of 9 November, considers that, and I quote, 'the Roma, inhabiting any part of Kosovo, continue to face serious restrictions to their freedom of movement and the exercise of fundamental human rights [...] and there are reports of threats and physical violence perpetrated against these communities'.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I wish to inform you of the sadness felt by many Europeans when, on 20 October, two EU Member States organised the forced return of Afghan immigrants: three from France, and 24 from the United Kingdom.
I would therefore like explicit confirmation from you that an individual examination of each of the asylum applications was indeed carried out.
I would also like to know whether the Commission regards Afghanistan as a safe country, and if it does not, I would like to know whether the Commission agrees that this forced return was carried out in violation of Article 3 of the Geneva Convention.
Mr President, firstly I would like to say how pleased I am that we are having a debate today on this issue because it is clear that the Heads of State or Government had expected the deportation of irregular migrants from the European Union to Afghanistan to be carried out without any fuss, and that is not the case.
It is not the case for two reasons: firstly, because the European Commission has requested information from the United Kingdom Government and the French Government, which is a good thing, and, secondly, because we are having a debate on this subject today.
Well, we should ask Mr Obama that, as he has just decided to send 34 000 soldiers there.
The right of asylum is one of those fundamental rights.
The security situation in Afghanistan is too dangerous to return anyone there at present, but afterwards, when things have quietened down, these people will be returned. (PL) Mr President, I want to begin with the following matter - I worked for several years in the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, and in connection with this, I have been to Afghanistan many times, because 2 000 soldiers from Poland are serving there.
Now you are saying that just because they did not get their asylum claim through, we should send them back to Afghanistan, where there is war and where people cannot live, where they cannot survive, where there is no way of earning a living and where there is, by the way, also a strong war against women.
Let me say that if all of the EU Member States could provide as many places as Sweden is currently doing - we have 1 900 places annually - in relation to the size of their populations, the European Union would be able to provide 100 000 places annually to UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The major difficulty that we are encountering comes from what Mrs Mathieu called mixed flows, where we have immigrants who come for economic or environmental reasons and, at the same time, people who are persecuted and who are entitled to international protection or subsidiary protection.
Above all, I would like to remind you - and here I thank Mr Billström and the Swedish Presidency, which has helped us greatly - that, in spring, we began to table texts that are going to help us move towards a Europe of asylum.
On 21 October, the Commission adopted two other important texts: one on the Qualification Directive and the other on the Directive on asylum procedures.
