rapporteur. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to welcome you all at the start of this debate.
It has proved very arduous work which has involved, over many months, in fact over more than a year, a great deal of cooperation by Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the whole agricultural and rural world in the European Union.
Throughout this period, I have had the opportunity to hear many opinions of organisations representing the agricultural sector and the rural world in various Member States and to dialogue with members of parliament and institutional representatives from many, in fact almost all, Member States and Community institutions, obviously starting here with the European Parliament.
I must also thank Chairman Parish for the way in which he conducted the work in our committee and for the excellent cooperation of the secretariat of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, given that they bore the hardest and most technically demanding part of the work.
It also shows, in exemplary fashion, the importance that Europe, its institutions and Parliament in particular attach to this subject.
The 1 170 amendments tabled to the Commission's proposals, particularly taking into account the fact that the period available was interrupted by the summer recess, illustrate the wide participation of Members in this debate.
However, the compromises reached between four of the main political groups in Parliament, with nearly 400 amendments on the most important issues being concentrated into six compromises, also reveal the Members' sense of responsibility, spirit of compromise and readiness to yield ground.
I would highlight the following: confirmation of the need for a common policy as a prerequisite for competitive and environmentally sustainable agriculture in Europe; the contributions made by the Commission to ensure that the CAP is fairer and more acceptable to society; the emphasis on simplification and cutting of red tape; confirmation of the proposal to give more freedom of choice to farmers in defining their productive options; financial reinforcement of rural development and expansion of its scope to the new challenges (energy, climate, water, biodiversity); introduction of the principle of progressive modulation; additional flexibility granted to Member States in managing the CAP (I am talking about Article 68); creation of a risk and crisis management system with Community cofinancing, and the positive general direction taken in discussions on the post-2013 model and in the European Union's response to the World Trade Organization negotiations, aimed at a fair and reciprocal agreement for regulated international trade in agricultural products.
As I have already mentioned on other occasions, the Commission's proposals contain, in some aspects, for example with regard to the market management instruments and the milk sector, an overly liberal tone which may prove dangerous just at a time when there is enormous instability and volatility in the markets.
The report and the vote in the Committee on Agriculture aimed, by a large majority, to correct some of these less positive aspects.
The five compromises adopted in relation to the key elements of modulation are important proposals by Parliament.
These are: the percentage and progressive nature of support for small farmers, giving greater freedom to Member States to set the minimum thresholds; the retention percentage under Article 68 and the enlargement of its scope; the broader scope of the insurance system, which is extended to the fishing industry; the issue of cofinancing of rural development, and the expansion of new challenges.
A prudent increase in production in two years' time, adding to the 2% that we have decided on for 2008, and a final decision early in 2010 on the future of the sector, based on market developments, with a 4% increase in three years' time, seems to me to be a fairly sensible position and perhaps the one which could form the final compromise.
We are well aware that this health check is not a fundamental change in approach, as the reform of 2003 was, but a significant adjustment of that reform to a highly changeable situation.
Indeed, who could have imagined market trends since 2008, which have led to a drastic increase in agricultural prices and caused, as we are well aware, food riots just about all over the world?
The Council has already done a lot of work at all levels to settle many issues.
In this regard, I should like to offer my sincerest thanks for the valuable work carried out by the Slovenian Presidency, which has made it possible to make a very constructive start to work, particularly with regard to the Commission communication.
Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is your rapporteurs, Lutz Goepel and Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, who have done this work on the communication regarding the legislative proposals, on behalf of Parliament.
As you know, I have wanted to work with the European Parliament from the beginning.
I have taken a very keen interest in the subsequent work Parliament has carried out in parallel with the work of the Council, and we have all had what we could call a kind of enhanced dialogue between us.
In this regard, I have had very productive and regular discussions on the status of the negotiation, with the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and within Parliament - almost 50 hours of meetings with the European Parliament or among colleagues.
At each decisive stage of the negotiation, we met with the Council, on 27 September and 22 October, after the vote in the Committee on Agriculture, and on 4 November to deal with the final phase of the negotiation and the proceedings of the October Council.
I should also like to thank your group chairmen, Lutz Goepel, Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, Niels Busk, Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, Vincenzo Aita and Sergio Berlato.
For example, at our last meeting of the Council of Ministers in Luxembourg, I personally informed each minister, in writing, of Parliament's position regarding each of the items we had to discuss within the Council.
These are divisive issues but we are determined - the Presidency is determined - to find, together with the Commission, and in the light of your vote, the best possible dynamic compromise.
I shall take two examples: firstly, the search for increased flexibility for Article 68; secondly, the retention of exceptional market measures in the event of health crises, Article 44 of the Single CMO Regulation, which will be incorporated in the final compromise.
This morning's debate and tomorrow's vote on the health check are therefore very important steps that demonstrate, once again, the vital role of Parliament, which Parliament must continue to fulfil.
That is why I am very pleased, as no doubt the Commissioner is too, to listen to you this morning, to answer some of your questions and to have this final discussion with you.
One thing we learnt during 2007 was that our quota system did not allow supply to meet demand.
I see therefore that Parliament is proposing an increase of 1% but only for two years, so a 2% increase taken forward to 2010.
I agree that certain flanking measures should be adapted or adopted, and I am convinced that quite a lot can be done in the new Article 68.
If we can reach a good combination between Article 68 and the new rural development possibilities, then I am quite sure we will find solutions to the specific problems we see in some regions.
As I said, Article 68 is to be used as a more flexible instrument but with certain limitations, because you want a situation where you can couple 10%.
Last but not least on modulation, on rural development and the new challenges, I think we all agree that we need more money to face these new challenges.
Then we need to find new ways on how to manage our water.
Water is a scarce resource, but an extremely important one for agriculture, especially in some of our southern regions, so we need to use new technologies to use water in the most intelligent way possible to avoid wasting water.
I am sure that we will again be able to find a decent compromise on this issue.
I have only touched on some of the major issues, and I am sure that I will have the opportunity to respond after the debate, but I am committed, together with the presidency, to finding a decent compromise.
The intention was to make drastic cuts in direct subsidies and to increase output in terms of environmental protection and employment.
Gen technology and the intensive unilateral agriculture are a problem in this connection.
I expressly welcome the fact that the Commission has already taken a positive stance in relation to several proposals from the Parliament.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who has taken up many of the proposals from the Committee on Regional Development in relation to modulation and rural development.
On the contrary, our proposal is very serious because it aims to allow farms to plan with certainty as they enter the market economy, and also keeps the promises set out in the agricultural reforms of 2003.
Smaller farms have been particularly affected by market turbulence in recent months.
Agricultural policy will remain contradictory and imponderable as long as it continues to be pushed back and forth in this way.
Therefore, we, the Committee on Regional Development, are calling for planning security for the rural development programmes and for farmers' incomes.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, goodness knows that two minutes is very little time in which to deal with one year's conscientious work on this health check.
We then heard 8% basic modulation and 9% progressive modulation for a total of 17% as an offer proposed by the Commission and we have recently reached a figure of 5% during voting in committee.
Debates within the committee have shown that this is not advisable in all areas, as should be remembered in relation to the area of crops in particular as we move away from smaller market organisations.
In the dairy sector, we have also succeeded in redefining Article 68 so as to support disadvantaged regions.
Because it is so complicated, I would have preferred us to have dealt with this complex of dairy-related issues with options and complementary measures as a complex report when quotas are abolished in 2010 or 2011.
Finally, with regard to the overall development of aid and the manner in which we go about it, I should like to say that, in modulating and limiting Article 68, important steps have been taken; they are a move in the right direction towards a condition, to ensure that our global agricultural production model moves towards sustainability.
It was also proclaimed that we would make agriculture within the EU ready for increased free trade - and especially for the new period after 2013 when the current agreement period is due to expire.
At the same time, it was also very important for us in Europe to assume our part of the responsibility for producing quality food - not only for European consumers, but for the whole world, in particular the increasing part of the world's population that is demanding food.
The most important point is that this review of agricultural policy should, in my opinion, give a much clearer indication of the direction we want agriculture to take when the agreement period expires in 2013.
Finally, I would have welcomed it - and I also think that it would have benefited European agriculture - if we in Parliament had stuck more closely to the proposal tabled by the Commission quite a while ago.
But we do not want fairness, we want equality.
If the Irish had voted sensibly, we would have had a say on agricultural issues and on agricultural finances as of 1 January 2009.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate and the vote that will follow represent an important stage for Community policy on agriculture.
I believe that there is a need, because of what has happened in recent years, and chiefly in the last two years, for an even stronger common agricultural policy (CAP) in Europe.
The issues that have become central over these last two years are, for Europe, the following two issues, which I would like to stress.
The number of holdings that we lost between 2003 and 2005 - again according to Eurostat data - is 611 000.
Today we must pay greater attention especially to steadying the increasing volatility of agricultural markets, accelerating the process of alignment with world prices, emphasising the irreplaceable role of agriculture in society, strengthening the systems of the CAP and above all making better use of the potential of the discriminated agriculture of new Member States.
Hence each individual shareholder has to be accepted as one farmer.
Let me also thank the Commissioner for her cooperation and help and in particular Michel Barnier, because we have had enhanced cooperation, if not codecision.
We have to move forward now and adopt a report and reach a compromise and a position in order that farmers in Europe know exactly where they are going.
Whilst this report in itself is not a major reform document, it does set the tone for future reforms beyond 2013.
That is why I am disappointed in the outcome of the vote in the Agriculture Committee, which yet again - it appears to me - has resulted in that committee turning its back on a fundamental reform of this discredited system.
Hang tough, Commissioner, you are right and, sadly, I suspect this Chamber will be wrong. (NL) Madam President, as you are aware, I am less than enthusiastic about all the health check proposals.
I do not have much time, so I can only touch on the most important questions which concern farmers in my country.
This is very important and if we are talking about solidarity, honest competition and the common market, then we must behave accordingly.
The second very important thing is the necessity to abolish the restrictions on land area according to the condition of 30 June 2003.
As we look towards 2013 there is certainly a lot to do, because we have a common agricultural policy that, like any good compromise, leaves nobody particularly happy.
That fall in price strengthens me in my view that abolishing milk quotas is premature and imprudent and will do nothing to stabilise the market.
I regret, therefore, that at a time when some Member States are showing flexibility - with France diverting underspend to the sheep sector and Germany talking about a milk fund - the Commission wishes to bind itself by reducing its scope for action by needlessly abrogating market-management measures. . - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first let me thank the rapporteur for the legislative proposal and the rapporteur for the own-initiative report.
The 2003 and 2004 reforms were important stages in the reformation of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The thorough examination of the CAP is not a fundamental reform in itself, but rather another important step in securing a modern, multifunctional and competitive common agricultural policy.
I believe that preparing for the soft landing following 2015 is an important issue.
Anyone who points to food prices as a reason for increasing quotas fails to recognise that a dairy farmer receives less than 30% of the sale price, while the sale price in the supermarkets - even in my own Member State - is currently the same as it was 25 years ago.
We welcome the re-evaluation of Article 68 thanks to the Member States' autonomy of decision.
I am also pleased that an agreement has been reached on the milk fund, including in relation to production in mountain areas and disadvantaged regions.
I am certain that the common agricultural policy will be developed to ensure that we also have multifunctional, sustainable agricultural production in all regions of the EU in the future. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, we agree with the aims of this 'health check', but not all the proposed measures.
It needs Community support, as called for by Parliament last June, and Article 68 will not be enough.
The subject of the state of health of the common agricultural policy (CAP) is actually a very important one, because it aims to improve the competitiveness of the European farming industry.
I feel it is appropriate to emphasise just two issues: the increase in milk quotas, providing for greater growth for countries in deficit and for those countries where the national quota is being exceeded, and the extension until 2012 of coupled support for tobacco cultivation.
Nevertheless, I am concerned at the lack of agreement on an overall change in the approach to aligning subsidies for all states of the EU at the same level, which would promote healthy competition within the Community and outside it.
Actually, the review has confirmed the fact that protectionist attitudes towards national agricultures by the so-called old EU Member States in relation to those of the newly acceded States still persist in the European Union.
It is very important that Parliament has also noted the unfairness of the initial allocation of milk quotas.
The future of agriculture in developing countries is directly linked to our debate today.
I am therefore very sorry that the robust relationship between northern and southern agriculture receives so little attention, both in the Commission's proposals and in Parliament's report, and the jeopardising of the EUR 1 billion pledged shows that there is still a long way to go. (PL) Mr President, Polish farmers and farmers from Central and Eastern Europe joining the European Union have been treated as second-class citizens, and this applies, inter alia, to subsidies and milk quotas.
We are now seeing a growing tendency to retain this discrimination and unequal treatment beyond 2013.
I support them and think that the protests in Brussels are the best proof that all is not well with agriculture.
I am against modulation as recommended by the European Commission or the Capoulas Santos report.
It was actually on 20 November last year that Mrs Fischer Boel came to give us her proposals regarding the health check.
The European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has managed to stand firm in the face of the Commission's initial proposals, which we felt were far too liberal.
Calculation, by the Committee on Agriculture, of progressive modulation is, in my view, fair and would enable us to enhance regional development and rurality, and to preserve biodiversity in a sustainable manner.
I also hope that we keep the 'Tobacco fund', which allows us to keep our small farms in Europe as well as significant employment in a region where nothing else can be farmed and which allows us to avoid imported products.
Finally, Mr Barnier, we have very much appreciated your involvement throughout these negotiations.
I know that we will be able to count on you. (NL) Mr President, in the sixties, Sicco Mansholt, a prominent member of my party in the Netherlands, created European agricultural policy, and we are proud of this.
It is time for an intelligent update of our agricultural policy in which we hold onto Mansholt's ideals, but throw out the obsolete bits, such as export subsidies and product subsidies, for example.
Last year we spent more than EUR 500 million on milk export subsidies.
The health check lacks solidarity, more than anything.
The Commission's proposal in no way reflects the principle whereby people must also be able to engage in sustainable agriculture in those areas which are worst off in terms of natural conditions, even if the European Council has confirmed that three times.
That is why we need an agricultural policy. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our primary aim is to ensure that Europe has a common agricultural policy after 2013.
We believe that this is a fundamental point, not only in order to protect the agricultural sector and the socio-economic fabric in our Member States, but also because at the dawn of the third millennium it is more strategically vital than ever to guarantee Europe's food security.
Commissioner, we would like to stress the fact that we need to continue to implement policies of support for each individual common organisation of agricultural markets (CMOs), where necessary, and specifically we believe that: a) In the tobacco sector the decoupling of aid must provide for the option to maintain partially coupled aid up until 2013, in order to avoid the total abandonment of production, because that would jeopardise entire sectors, creating unemployment and also various economic and environmental problems in particularly disadvantaged areas.
I would like to remind the Commissioner and the President that the European Parliament has already expressed its support, by a large majority, on this issue.
We therefore need to think again, particularly in relation to milk quotas, in countries such as Italy which have for 20 years already been suffering this tragedy of a deficiency of production, despite having significant potential.
This is not compulsory.
On modulation and Article 68, we are talking about recycling funds from agriculture to these new challenges.
The biggest threat to the CAP and to European farmers is in the budget review, the legacy of Tony Blair to this institution, where financing of agriculture is under threat.
I would suggest that farmers in Ireland will now be more supportive of the Lisbon Treaty because they fear that Member States will have more control over agriculture policy and they know the dangers of that from our budget for 2009 when the Irish Government slashed support for agriculture: they trust Europe more than their Member State.
Secondly, I think this will be catastrophic for over half a million families, especially in my country, where most are poor, small-scale tobacco farmers who will abandon their farms and move to the large towns, which is extremely dangerous for the environment and the countryside.
Thirdly, I am against the minimum thresholds for granting direct aid proposed by the Commission, whereby the Commission says that anyone receiving less than EUR 250 a year or cultivating less than one hectare a year should not be financed.
We need them all, but most of all we need small-scale farmers.
This being so, I call for this to be revised and for aid to be granted to farmers, however small their farms may be. (EL) Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate Mr Capoulas Santos on his report.
In other words, with the across-the-board cut, with the proposals for further cuts in the value of entitlements in a period in which the cost of production has risen, we have disappointed both large-scale dairy farms and small-scale producers in small and mountainous areas.
Moreover, as I have stated before, the Commission proposal of an annual quota increase by 1% is very 'skimmed', in my view, and this could easily be increased to 'semi-skimmed' in the Council of Ministers later.
The argument I have heard before in this debate, namely that our quota system would automatically give us a good price, is far too short-sighted.
The task of the common agricultural policy (CAP) has always been to guarantee the supply of food for everyone.
This aim is even more justifiable today, since the crisis we are experiencing leaves both consumers and farmers vulnerable.
We must therefore encourage and help young farmers to establish themselves and to develop their activities since it is they who will help to feed the planet in the future.
I should like to emphasise the difficulties encountered in the sheep and goat sectors, with regard to which Mr Capoulas Santos has been very sensitive.
Scrapping market instruments would be a serious blow to our agriculture.
We must, therefore, think about this issue of the second pillar without, of course, cutting off the first. (ES) Mr President, firstly, I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Capoulas Santos, on his magnificent work.
We believe and trust in rural development, but we do not believe that the modulation proposed by the Commission is the answer.
It is therefore vital for the 27 Member States to take a joint approach to the sector, but it is important to maintain the market support and management instruments for key products.
The system of milk quotas currently in force, for example, is a response to criteria that are now obsolete.
The 1% increase proposed in the compromise is not enough to meet the domestic demand of the majority of Member States.
Ireland's food production system is accepted as one of the most efficient in the world in terms of emissions per unit of food produced.
Any shortfall of world food markets - if Ireland cut its livestock numbers - would be most likely to be filled by countries with less sustainable farming systems and systems that generate far higher levels of emission, due to the less efficient nature of their herd management or the age profile of their herds and deforestation. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner Fischer Boel, Mr Barnier, a health check should serve to correct those aspects which are not totally right.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has accomplished, because when we discuss agriculture we are discussing food, and therefore the issue is an extremely delicate one.
I would like to talk about two key points: the first is the issue of milk quotas.
Perhaps there was a mistake in planning or not enough control ... (PL) Mr President, the European Commission has proposed common agricultural policy spending limits for the various Member States up to 2013 and beyond.
In a situation where the production costs of old and new Member States are rapidly converging, and the European Commission is proposing decoupling financial support from production, retaining these differences not only no longer has any justification in fact, but also discriminates against farmers in the new Member States.
Commissioner, I wish to thank you for your positive consideration of the milk fund, something I have been demanding for two years, namely since the debate on the mini milk package and the abolition of support measures in this area.
The value of the single farm payment has fallen by approximately 15% since 2005 due to inflation and other issues and yet the proposal is to cut it further.
In recent weeks we had a number of helicopters, flanked by 61 ground inspectors, counting sheep in the hills of Connemara, a small area where the price of sheep would not even repay the investment by farmers.
It does not matter to Luxembourg's farmers if we do not cut direct payments up to EUR 10 000 because all full-time farmers are above this limit.
The priority must therefore be to avoid cuts or to keep them as small as possible.
Otherwise there will be no future for full-time farmers in Luxembourg. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is neither the time nor the place to enter into substantive debate.
The European Parliament has the authority merely to express an opinion on the only issue where the EU has the power of life and death, and on which half of the budget is spent.
The Commissioner signed Regulation No 250 in 2008, but the Member States are ignoring it and this will continue to be the case after 30 June 2009 too.
I would like to say to the Commissioner that I am a little concerned about Articles 68 and 69.
I am convinced that the equalisation of subsidy levels between Member States is inevitable.
Commissioner, the Council of Ministers meeting will be accompanied by an 8 000-strong demonstration of tobacco planters.
The milk market is unstable and must therefore be monitored.
I would add that progressive modulation that is too severe could certainly cause problems for several Member States, but we must be well aware that the very principle of progressive modulation responds to a highly publicised social need.
That is very ambitious, but I believe that it is the right way to go.
Next, I should like to address the issue of new challenges.
I have mentioned just a few names, but many of you could speak on this issue, the issue of milk quotas.
We are going to work on it, and on support measures in particular, since everyone agrees on support for sensitive regions.
I, like you, believe that, in this new global context that many of us have referred to, for agriculture and for food, this production sector, this real economy that affects people's food supply, needs instruments for intervention in the event of serious market instability, and from this point of view, intervention is an important aspect of the negotiation.
There have been many debates here in Parliament, as in the Council, and a strong demand to open up the possibilities for applying this article, which arouses a great deal of interest, while preserving its commonality.
I am thinking, in particular, of the demands made by many representatives of new Member States, for more fairness and equity.
The Presidency is fully aware that we cannot discuss the common agricultural policy as if we were in a fortress, turning in on ourselves in Europe.
It was precisely in this spirit that, on 3 July, we organised, at the European Parliament, a conference with the Director-General of the World Trade Organization, the Director-General of the World Bank, the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization, many MEPs and Commissioner Louis Michel, on the question: 'Who will feed the world?' In the same spirit, we shall organise on 28 November a working meeting, again with Louis Michel, on the link between agriculture and development.
I, like the Presidency, am therefore paying close attention to what is being said about agriculture in order to preserve the European Union's agricultural and regional food model, which has supported the common agricultural policy for 50 years, but keeping a clear and empathetic perspective on what is happening in other parts of the world.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I have been listening carefully and I think that the record on 'catch-the-eye' shows clearly that there is huge interest in this Parliament in the agricultural sector and the consequences of the decisions that will be taken.
Firstly, I would like to stress that I think you have either misunderstood or missed something when you tried to convince me that modulation means taking the money away from the farmers, which is definitely not the case.
So I think, on the contrary, you can say in modulation we actually increase the funding available for the agricultural sector because there is cofinancing.
If you continue to say that we are taking money from the farmers, then there is a certain misunderstanding among those of you who have chosen this argument.
I am sure that we will be able to design a very nice package for the milk producers in those areas that are facing difficulties.
It has to be kept in mind that some of the competitive ones are paying EUR 338 million every year to stay in business.
We might find some solutions even now for the new Member States in the compromise, and I hope you will be surprised in a positive way.
The tobacco reform was made in 2004 and was supported by all countries, including tobacco-producing Member States.
But I will be open to help all those Member States, all those regions, that face problems, because there are many possibilities available in the rural development policy.
Let us keep our common agricultural policy with the flexibility that we have included in our different choices within the rural development policy.
I want to thank all of you for this dedicated approach.
rapporteur. - (PT) The long list of speakers and the resolute and impassioned way in which they have expressed their ideas once again confirms how much this subject means to the European Parliament and the importance that should be placed on agriculture, farmers and the rural world in Europe.
Mr Barnier, as I have repeatedly said, we are not yet using codecision, but we are already entering into the spirit of this.
I am sure that we will be able to find a consensual solution responding to the concerns of European farmers and agriculture who are watching us closely.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 19 November 2008.
in writing. - (RO) I am pleased to note that, one year after the European Commission launched the consultation process for adapting the common agricultural policy to the current needs of farmers and agricultural producers, we have reached a consensus on certain specific proposals.
I would like to come back to the issue concerning the deadline for the complete application of the cross-compliance package in the case of Romania and Bulgaria.
Bearing in mind the importance of this issue to the new Member States, I urge my fellow Members to take this into account in subsequent discussions so that we can find a solution beneficial to both States and approved by representatives of all the EU's Member States.
in writing. - (HU) Evaluating the situation does not mean simply a review of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
In reality, we are talking about the reform of the CAP and a significant reduction in support to agriculture.
In Hungary, modulation would even affect smaller 20-hectare farms.
What is needed for these smaller farms is not a reduction but rather an increase in direct support.
Applying modulation in the new Member States before 2013 would, moreover, be contrary to the accession agreement.
The increase to milk quotas in spring proved to be a flawed decision, leading to a fall in milk prices in several Member States.
The health check we will be voting on today represents an extraordinary opportunity to substantially reflect on how we can free the common agricultural policy (CAP) from the dissatisfaction undermining it and to look ahead to the huge amount of work to reform this policy, planned for after 2013.
The CAP undeniably needs a breath of fresh air, and particularly in social and environmental terms.
In this regard, I am delighted that we have managed to amend the European Commission's text in the direction of increased social sensitivity, by proposing, in particular, an increase in aid for small farmers and the introduction of 'work' and 'employment' factors in the rules for allocating aid.
In addition, international realities have changed, and the disaster of famine in developing countries must make us think again of the principles of support for agriculture in Europe.
From the point of view of a state where agriculture is a relatively large contributor to employment, as is the case in Poland, it would be legitimate to raise milk quotas and to provide national support for sectors that are most disadvantaged.
in writing. - (RO) As a representative of a region with a significant agriculture sector in Romania, one of the new Member States, I do not think that the disparities in treatment between farmers from these States and those from the old European Union States are being reduced as a result of the assessments carried out during the common agricultural policy's health check.
However, it is helpful that national milk quotas for Romania have not been changed, along with the fact that Member States have the opportunity to increase their milk quotas for a certain period of time if these quotas are underused in other Member States.
in writing. - (RO) I heard one of my fellow Members talking about the way to share sweets between two children.
Continuing the analogy, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if the same child were to be a Romanian or Bulgarian farmer in the future, I would say that he was going to receive what he deserved after eight years.
in writing. - (BG) Continuing to reform the common agricultural policy (CAP) is important for allowing Europe to maintain its leading role in this sector.
It is a well-known fact that the European Union has turned from an exporter to an importer of agricultural produce.
I believe that a large proportion of the Commission's proposals are beneficial to farmers in Bulgaria, particularly as mismanagement on the part of the Bulgarian Government in this sector and the abuses committed resulted in the failure to reach the results envisaged in the pre-accession mechanisms.
For this reason in the past few months we have witnessed protests by agricultural producers, mainly dairy and cereal farmers.
