President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency would firstly like to thank the European Parliament, and in particular Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, for the motion for a resolution on EU-Turkey relations.
The Presidency acknowledges and welcomes Parliament's active engagement with the enlargement process as a constructive contribution to the general debate on enlargement and Turkey's accession process in particular.
In a few days the Commission will present its regular progress report on Turkey's accession process.
The Council will examine and assess this report very carefully.
We are of the opinion that the recent elections in Turkey demonstrated the wish of the Turkish people for democracy, stability - both political and economic - and progress.
We share your views on the importance of reforms in the crucial area of fundamental freedoms and human rights.
We continue to firmly believe that Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code, as well as other vaguely formulated articles, need to be abolished or substantially amended in order to guarantee freedom of expression.
Progress in this area is of paramount importance for the general advancement of the accession negotiations.
Recent developments - in particular before and during the election campaign - demonstrate the need for further steps in this area so that the Armed Forces cannot exercise political influence.
We recall our solidarity with the people of Turkey in this regard.
On the other hand, terrorism should not make us forget about the urgent need to promptly develop and implement a comprehensive strategy that will guarantee the economic, social and cultural development of the south-east.
I would also underline that recognition by all Member States is a necessary component of the accession process and that it is therefore vital that the European Union normalises relations between Turkey and all the Member States as soon as possible.
We attach particular importance to Turkey's accession process and I can assure you that the Portuguese Presidency will also do its utmost in order to allow these negotiations to advance.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me first congratulate Ms Oomen-Ruijten on her solid report and for proposing a draft that is both rigorous and fair.
However, this should not result in any postponement of reforms that are urgently needed today, such as the revision of the infamous Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code and other articles related to freedom of expression or the adoption of the Law on Foundations to ensure freedom of religion.
Turkey faces continual cross-border terrorist attacks from the PKK, which is on the EU list of terrorist organisations.
The European Union condemns all terrorist attacks and understands Turkey's need to protect its citizens.
The EU and Turkey are both committed to the independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Iraq.
The recent bilateral agreement between Turkey and Iraq on the fight against terrorism provides a basis for this.
The European perspective for Turkey has proved to be a key incentive for reforms in the country.
In line with our core principle of conditionality in enlargement policy, the implementation of the reforms on the ground determines progress in the accession negotiations.
We have to keep our word - pacta sunt servanda.
All Member States continue to support accession negotiations with Turkey, and it is vital for the Union's credibility that the process continues in accordance with the Negotiating Framework of 3 October 2005 and the Council decision of 11 December 2006.
Last but not least, please rest assured that your contribution will be duly taken into account in our forthcoming progress report concerning Turkey, which the Commission will adopt on 6 November.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, thank you, both to the Council and to the Commission, for the kind words that have been expressed.
The debate today and the resolution that we are about to adopt are indeed directed in the first instance at the Commission, because we intend to have some input into the progress report.
The third point I wish to make: we have tried to deepen and broaden the debate with Turkey.
Freedom of speech and religious freedom are rightly given a prominent place in our text.
I am therefore also asking the Commission to support Turkey and Armenia on this issue.
Mr President, I cannot say anything more about the PKK because the procedures in this House do not allow me enough time.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on this very good report and thank her very much for the excellent cooperation.
The Commissioner has already mentioned Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code and other reforms to guarantee full and genuine freedom of expression and plurality of opinion in Turkey.
We had a meeting with President Talabani's representative in Ankara and he also made it very clear that what they want is not continued PKK terrorism but a political solution.
I would hope that representatives of the Kurdish regional government will heed the message that the continuation of PKK terrorism damages not only Turkey but also Iraq.
That is why I myself, and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, can only endorse this appeal: Turkey and Iraq must come together to work on the basis of peaceful cooperation, which must include the Kurdish regional government, to put an end to terrorism.
What is important in this context - as the resolution says - is that these reforms are extremely important for Turkey itself, for the Turkish people, for Turkish society and for the Turkish economy.
This concerns insulting the memory of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and is problematical because this is also a restriction of freedom of speech.
Fundamental human rights and personal freedoms must be protected.
Let me add that, from our perspective, electoral law is also a problem.
A 10% hurdle is unheard of elsewhere in the OSCE.
We unequivocally condemn the terrorist activities of the PKK in recent weeks and I would like to pass on my Group's condolences to the families of the soldiers who have been killed.
The European Union understands the difficult situation in Turkey.
Turkey will continue to be a very important partner for the European Union and must now press ahead resolutely with reform in its own interests.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one year on from the last resolution adopted by this House on EU-Turkey relations, it is sad to see that certain fundamental issues remain tragically topical.
Turkey does not recognise Cyprus, to all intents and purposes a Member State of the European Union; freedom of the press is still curtailed, since Article 301 of the Penal Code has not yet been amended and Turkey persists in not acknowledging the genocide of the Armenian population in 1915.
The recent appalling terrorist attack by the PKK, the ensuing robust response from the Turkish army and the threat to intervene in the northern part of Iraq unless the PKK ends its terrorist activities once and for all: these factors compound the dangerous and delicate geopolitical position in which Turkey finds itself.
I am thinking in particular of the increased representation of women in the newly elected Turkish Parliament, in economic circles and in the academic world, but we need to ask ourselves now more than ever whether the Europe of tomorrow wishes to be a large political entity or to have a strong cultural identity, because these uncertainties play into the hands of Turkey which does not wish to stop being itself.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is unfortunately overshadowed by the terrorist attacks in Turkey.
On the one hand we realise, we know, that any country where fifty people have been killed in the last month has to do something in response, while at the same time many of us realise - including, I think, many in the Turkish Government - that large-scale military operations are no solution.
In my view, the issue is one of those in Turkey, Turks and Kurds who know that the only solution to the problem is a political one - the AKP and the DTP - versus the radicals, on the Turkish side and on the Kurdish side, who are not interested in a political solution at all and who think that military violence can help: on the Turkish side the army and a section of the opposition and on the Kurdish side the PKK.
Let us be very clear: the present attacks by the PKK are, of course, directed at the Turkish state, but they are also an attack on the Kurdish DTP party in the Turkish Parliament, which is seeking a political solution to the problem.
That is why it is so important that this Parliament does indeed strongly condemn the PKK and its terrorist attacks, while at the same time expressing support for all those on the Kurdish side and on the Turkish side who are trying to find a peaceful political solution to this problem.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Mr President, with the prospect of Turkey's accession to the EU firmly in mind, the Commission, and hence the Union as a whole, is called upon to complete, in the next few days, the assessment of Turkey's progress, or lack of it, in the various sectors it is required to harmonise with the European acquis.
We should like to point out that Turkey has made some progress, but we repeat that if its accession is to proceed smoothly, it must do as previous accession countries have done: comply with its Convention obligations to the EU as a whole.
This is a country that keeps troops in an EU Member State, and is not the first and only country to adjust to EU requirements.
Shortly before the adventure on its eastern borders, the price of oil in Turkey was USD 76 a barrel in Europe; now, owing to its arms, to which it always has recourse when solving its own problems, oil has risen to more than USD 90 a barrel. (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, during the discussion of this resolution in committee, it seemed as if Parliament as a whole was half asleep.
Instead of compromising the credibility of Europe even more, we would do better to pursue a favoured partnership with Turkey, in all openness and unequivocally, instead of full EU membership.
They are not an end in themselves or any sleight of hand on Europe's part; they are intended to address the deficits which should not be present in a democracy, notably in relation to freedom of opinion, freedom of religion, women's rights, minority rights, electoral law, etc.
I fully endorse the position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on this issue.
It is not only about whether Europe itself has the capacity to grant accession to Turkey. (NL) Mr President, I would also like to express my compliments to the rapporteur, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
We expect rapid results now and we therefore expect that the Commission will soon come up with a progress report to that effect.
That also creates opportunities, we believe, to finally seek a political solution to the Kurdish question.
I share the view of those who say that we should do everything we can to prevent a military escalation in northern Iraq, but we can only do that if we first distance ourselves from the terrorist attacks of the PKK and demand the PKK to stop.
Secondly, we must also support Turkey in its dialogue with Iraq and the Iraqi authorities, and also in its dialogue with the regional authorities in Kurdish Iraq to cooperate in practice to stop these attacks.
The Oomen-Ruijten report starts from this assumption and the text is probably the best that could be drafted in this House, but we need to have the courage to alter the overall context: the current political and military crisis on the border between Turkey and Iraq is partly the responsibility of the European Union, given that politically we have slammed the door in Turkey's face even though the relevant negotiations are continuing.
Since then, we have heard the distressing news of deaths and casualties on the Turkey-Iraq border, of bloody battles and combat, and we have heard that the Turkish military is firing on villages in northern Iraq.
Europe must now take responsibility and participate actively in developing a strategy for the resolution of the Kurdish issue, for this is the key to achieving genuine peace and democracy in Turkey. (NL) Mr President, in a recent interview in the Dutch press, Commissioner Rehn stated unequivocally which reforms in Turkey are the most urgent for the EU, and I quote: 'they are in the area of freedom of speech and religion, core principles of democracy'.
It also led me to bring to his attention a document from the Alliance of Protestant Churches in Turkey.
The document is dated 1 September 2007 and describes the serious distress and concerns of Turkish Protestants about the absence of freedom of religion.
I will hand a second document on this to the Commissioner and eagerly await a swift response from him in writing. (DE) Mr President, a few days ago I was in the Turkish-occupied part of Cyprus and I gained a first-hand impression of the systematic destruction of around 500 Greek Orthodox churches and the destruction of European cultural heritage which can never be made good.
It is quite unacceptable that an accession candidate should still be occupying parts of an EU Member State, namely Northern Cyprus, to say nothing of planning a military attack on another country, as is currently the case against Iraq.
In the case of Turkey's membership aspirations, these are clearly nothing but empty words. (EL) Mr President, let me begin by congratulating Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on her report.
This has not prevented the country from starting accession talks.
I wonder what the European Commission's report, which is expected on 6 November, will have to say about this.
As highlighted recently in a press release by the International Federation for Human Rights, many Turkish citizens are charged with insulting Turkish identity on the basis of Article 301 of the Penal Code.
The path towards accession has not been very smooth, but it has helped initiate a much-needed democratic reform programme in Turkey.
Mr President, the resolution emphasises that Turkey must fully comply with the Copenhagen criteria as a basis for accession to the EU.
If Turkey joins the EU, their Islamists will use the human rights legislation as a shield from behind which to advance their jihad in Turkey and Europe.
The British people are coming to realise that if Turkey joins the EU, another 70 million people will have the right to come to Britain.
Full stop, amen, finished.
Mr President, according to The Times newspaper of London, the recent US Congressional resolution on the Armenian genocide was appallingly timed.
Nevertheless, reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia, including the reopening of the closed border, is an important element of Turkey's efforts to join the EU.
Article 301 of the Penal Code on insulting Turkishness has resulted in many convictions and, in March - rather bizarrely in my view - a court in Istanbul issued an order denying access to the video-sharing website YouTube when allegations were made on the sexuality of the founding father of modern Turkey, Kemal Atatürk.
Speaking entirely personally and not on behalf of my party or my Group: a lot clearly still needs to be done. (EL) Mr President, today's discussion gives us an opportunity to express our satisfaction with the election results in Turkey, and to welcome the Turkish people's express wish to continue the reforms.
Unfortunately, these efforts have reached a plateau and have slowed down.
The reform process is above all about democratisation, fundamental human rights and religious freedoms.
In line with this, it is essential to repeal Article 301 of the Criminal Code and respond firmly to the Ecumenical Patriarchate's requests.
Another issue that concerns us is the tense situation in south-east Turkey.
The international community must play a peacekeeping role in this potential crisis.
To conclude, Mr President, I should like to say that we expect Turkey to honour all its obligations so that it can progress steadily towards prospective European integration. (EL) Mr President, let me first congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on her excellent work.
At the same time, the mandate inspires a new desire for a fair and lasting solution to the Cyprus issue, with the withdrawal of Turkish troops from Cyprus as the first requirement.
Of course we should urge Turkey to show restraint and to act proportionately in response to the terrorist threat from northern Iraq but I note the criticisms this morning are being made by the very same people who in other debates have been against the European Union's contribution to reconstruction in Iraq.
I will not conceal the fact that I consider the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey to be in itself a fundamental mistake.
While compromise is welcomed in many other areas discussed in Parliament, Turkish membership and EU-Turkey relations are not among them.
It is a question of our responsibility towards both the EU citizens and Turkey who do not deserve half-truths.
I am certain that the Turkish people will welcome much more a communication on disunity rather than a concealment of the real situation, which both Parliament and Europe as a whole have been doing for a long time. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's resolution on Turkey, the European Parliament is sending out a positive signal and has thus entered a new phase of constructive dialogue in its relations with Turkey.
Turkey now has a government in power which has a clear popular mandate and can set to work.
The call for the revision of Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code is being considered by the Turkish side.
The Commission's progress report is expected on 7 November, and I think it is very important that the current positive developments in Turkey are reflected in that report. (EL) Mr President, Turkey is a candidate for accession to a united Europe.
Ankara regards Turkish Cypriots as isolated, owing to the presence of 45 000 Turkish soldiers, who are keeping Greek Cypriots away from their homes and properties.
The Turkish policy of dividing Cyprus into two states is not a solution.
Finally, I want to congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on her resolution, although there is one topic missing: why do we often forget that Turkey is not just a candidate country but also a vital Euro-Mediterranean partner in the Barcelona Process?
Turkey is vital in that Process just as we are vital for Turkey in the Euro-Mediterranean Process too. (NL) Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for her balanced resolution.
The new Government also promised reforms on the path toward EU membership.
The resolution will therefore make a direct contribution to the reforms in Turkey, including reforms in the areas of women's rights, trade union rights and social legislation.
However, calm is needed for reforms to take place, and at the moment fear and anger are rife in Turkey.
Clearly, some people regret that these reforms have not been as rapid or as extensive as might have been hoped, but the fact is that Turkey's people and Government are making gradual progress along the road set out by us, towards an increasingly democratic and pluralistic society which more fully respects the rule of law.
The Copenhagen criteria, as the guide or reference framework for this whole negotiation process, are extremely clear for both Turkey and any other candidate countries: only those countries which clearly respect our economic principles and, in particular and perhaps even more importantly, our political principles can be members of the European Union.
As regards the PKK's terrorist attacks on the border between Turkey and Iraq, I would draw your attention to the Presidency's statement of 22 October on this issue.
Especially, there is very strong emphasis on reforms without unnecessary delay as regards the freedom of expression, the infamous Article 301 and other equivalent articles, as well as religious freedoms.
Moreover, we condemn terrorist attacks and we understand the Turkish need to protect its citizens, but we also urge Turkey to seek a political solution in cooperation with Iraqi regional authorities and the international community and to show a sense of proportionality in its response to PKK terrorism.
Concerning the Armenian issue, the Commission supports Parliament's call, as expressed in your draft resolution, for a process of reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia.
Therefore, the reform of Article 301 is also essential for a serious and effective debate on the Armenian issue that could lead to genuine reconciliation.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - Turkey still has a long way to go before it meets the conditions for EU membership.
Despite considerable progress in recent years, there are still outstanding issues about freedom of expression (particularly Article 301 of the Penal Code), human rights and Armenia.
