Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund: Sweden-Volvo; Austria-Steiermark; Netherlands-Heijmans (debate) The next item is the report by Reimer Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund: Sweden - Volvo; Austria - Steiermark; Netherlands - Heijmans - C7-0254/2009 -.
The periods between these reports are getting shorter and shorter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the proposal put forward by the Commission aimed at releasing resources from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in response to layoffs in the automobile sector in Sweden and Austria and the construction sector in the Netherlands.
The crisis affects fundamental sectors of European industry, as shown by these three latest requests in the automotive and construction fields, which have received a favourable response.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is a tangible expression of solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs due to major structural changes in world trade patterns.
If we wish to achieve these objectives, we must seize the opportunities now.
Firstly, as regards effectiveness, the fund supported 16 000 workers in 2009, a mere drop in the ocean of redundancies, and expended EUR 53 million out of a possible EUR 500 million.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the European Union has set up budgetary instruments to provide support to workers who are being made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, many of which have been influenced directly or indirectly by the European Union.
I will reject this resolution, and urge you to do the same. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the European Union has a budgetary instrument that provides financial support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns.
Now it is a question of providing help quickly and therefore I also support the mobilisation of the Fund as quickly as possible, particularly in Steiermark in Austria, where a whole region involved in car manufacture is affected and where there are many suppliers involved which, of course, are particularly important for the infrastructure.
Thank you, Commissioner. (DE) Mr President, the Austrian application for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) concerns the former employees of a total of nine automotive suppliers in Steiermark.
Steiermark will surely be in favour of that. (SV) Madam President, in a debate such as this, it is worth remembering that it is globalisation that has made Europe rich, that has created jobs and generated investments.
Finally, I call upon everyone to back the Committee on Budgets in its proposal - and I also thank Mr Böge for his proposal - and ask, as Mr Rübig did, for the effects of our policies to be monitored. (RO) Last year, we approved a number of similar allocations of sums from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in order to provide additional support to workers who are suffering the consequences of major structural changes in global trade patterns.
In the region I come from, I can tell you that during the last year, roughly 2 500 redundancies have been made in the iron and steel industry, approximately 700 in shipbuilding, and an announcement has been made about around 6 000 redundancies to follow in the rail transport sector.
Necessity is the mother of invention, and I think it is very important that we give them every assistance we can. (DE) Madam President, if we assume that most jobs across Europe - not just in my country, Austria - are at risk due to the effects of globalisation, then we must consider, in particular, that younger workers - some of whom have not yet been registered as unemployed because they have just come from a training course or from school - are at risk as a result.
However, it can certainly help the individuals affected, who find themselves in a difficult situation in terms of employment after being made redundant and it can give them the opportunity, through gaining qualifications, to have prospects once more and to find work.
