Collective management of copyrights on-line (debate) The next item is the oral question by Giuseppe Gargani on the collective management of copyrights on-line - B6-0459/2008).
Against this background we now have the Directorate-General for Competition starting legal proceedings against a player in this sector that was only trying to act in compliance with the Commission recommendation of 2005.
This situation reflects the fact that the European Commission chose to ignore the warnings that had been expressed by Parliament, particularly in its resolution of 13 March 2007, which also contained concrete proposals for controlled competition as well as for the protection and encouragement of minority cultures within the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I believe that these questions should be placed in a wider context, as the debate on how to license music on the internet is gaining momentum.
As the 2008 evaluation report on these recommendations shows, some owners of copyright, such as the music publishers, have followed our advice and set up Europe-wide licences.
The 2005 Recommendation and the CISAC Decision are governed by the same principles: they both encourage the removal of restrictions which prevent authors and composers from freely choosing their collecting societies, and rights managers from delivering multi-territorial licences.
The 2008 public consultation on creative content online has shown that the topic of multi-territory licensing for audiovisual works is not ripe to be dealt with in the planned recommendation.
As a result, Madam President, I believe that the proposal, the oral question and the motion for a resolution that we plan to table are aimed at reinforcing this independence and this unique identity of European culture, which cannot be replaced by any abstraction based on free competition.
We need a different approach and a clear legislative proposal as to how the collecting societies can and should protect these rights and assets. (PL) Madam President, last year the European Parliament responded by way of a resolution to the Commission's 2005 recommendation concerning cross-border collective management of copyright.
The management of copyright and associated rights in relation to online music services remains a complicated and problematic issue, in spite of the binding directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright in the information society.
We certainly want to take all interests into account and arrive at a proper licensing system that is a model which is fit for the world of today, not the world of maybe 40 or 50 years ago.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 September 2008.
