Welcome to the European Parliament, President-in-Office. (Applause) I should also like to welcome the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, who, like the President-in-Office of the European Council, has just returned from Japan.
It was a tiring trip, so I shall make no further preliminary remarks. - President-in-Office of the Council, I would like, without further ado, to invite you to take the floor before the European Parliament.
I am well aware that we all bear a heavy responsibility.
Everyone must be on board in the European family, with its 27 Member States; nobody must be left behind.
If I may speak freely, conscious that, as President-in-Office of the Council, I must speak on everyone's behalf, I have to take account of everyone's sensibilities and at the same time come up with the right answers.
Heads of State or Government have tried to find a compromise with the Lisbon Treaty.
I myself, as President of the French Republic, had to face up to my responsibilities.
Ladies and gentlemen, the issues that we have to address are very difficult and complex; let us try to give everyone the idea that we are working on this with no ulterior motives and no preconceptions.
It is a political choice that I am making (applause) and it is a political choice that I made in my own country before the elections.
We owe it to our fellow citizens to know on what basis we are going to organise the European elections.
The basis will be either the Lisbon Treaty or the Nice Treaty.
However, I am one of those who have always wished that Europe had been wise enough to create new institutions before enlargement.
It would have been braver to establish institutions before enlargement.
The family must stay together.
However, I am adamant, President Pöttering, that we must not make the same mistakes again.
However, the most pro-enlargement countries cannot say, 'we do not want Lisbon', yet at the same time, 'we want enlargement'.
When it comes to Croatia, therefore, we must continue the negotiations, but everyone must shoulder their responsibilities.
Europe has paid dearly for the dictatorship imposed on 80 million Europeans.
There are 27 members in this family.
We reject institutions that condemn us to immobility, but at the same time, Europeans are impatient because they think we are too immobile.
The first is the energy and climate package.
If there is one area in which our nations can do nothing if they act alone, it is in maintaining the ecological balance of our planet.
If we Europeans wait for others to do something before we act, we could be waiting a long time.
If every country starts wanting to renegotiate its own particular bugbear, the things it has a problem with, then, ladies and gentlemen, we will never reach an agreement.
This is why the French Presidency is asking the European Parliament to rally behind it so that we can get the energy and climate package adopted within the next six months.
The world cannot wait; Europe has to lead the way.
Second point: of the 27 countries, 24 are now in the Schengen Area; in other words, 24 countries out of 27. 23, you say?
I would like to say to the leaders of the political groups and to members of parliament that we in France, with Bernard Kouchner and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, have taken a decision that was not easy to take.
The European Pact on Immigration and Asylum is an essential document for the French Presidency, for two reasons.
Let me add that, for development with Africa, we will be stronger if we work together; this is the second priority of the French Presidency.
Let me add that we cannot go on having Europe ensuring its security based on the contribution of just four or five countries, with the others relying on the efforts of these four or five countries.
It is precisely because it is difficult that we need to talk about it.
I am perfectly aware that among us we have agricultural States that fiercely defend the work of their farmers and, at the same time, States that think that this policy costs too much.
In 2050 the world will have 9 billion inhabitants.
A child starves to death every 30 seconds.
It is precisely the right time to talk about prices, to talk about subsidies and to talk about Community preference.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of social directives that President Barroso did well to put on the agenda.
Mr Cohn-Bendit, it would never have occurred to me that someone so young as you should already be affected by a disease which, although it does not affect you, affects millions of Europeans.
These millions of Europeans are just as important to me as your health. (Applause) Of course, subsidiarity means that this is not a European competence.
We must clearly address the question of VAT on videos and CDs, like that of VAT on books, which you have settled.
A sporting exception, which would mean that sport is not beholden to the market economy, should have the support of all MEPs. (Applause) To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to finish - apologies for having been too long, no doubt - with a final observation.
I know where I am going to make this observation: where the heart of European democracy beats.
I would like to end with this because it is very important to me.
Our institutions are independent, but independence does not mean indifference.
However, no one has the right to prevent a debate, a constructive debate.
We have to discuss the advantages of free trade, but we must also tell emerging countries that there are no grounds for them to demand the same rights without taking on the same obligations.
We must engage in a dignified European debate, but we must not be afraid to defend our beliefs.
You can be assured that the European Parliament is at your side when you make your resolute contribution to taking the European Union forward into a good future.
The European Parliament will support you in this task.
I welcome you all most warmly to the European Parliament. (Applause) President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to be here with you today in the European Parliament for the presentation of the six-month French Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
As I said during our meeting in Paris on 1 July, the Commission will stand by the French Presidency, offering its full support to ensure the success of the European Union during these six months.
Let us take two concrete subjects that were at the centre of the G8 summit: climate change and development - two issues on which Europe has taken the initiative at global level.
The United States has now joined us in the fight against climate change by largely subscribing to our views.
It was possible thanks to our role as European leader; I am proud of this as President of a European institution.
This support is essential to guarantee 'the green revolution' that Africa needs for its stability and prosperity, which, as you all know, is also in Europe's direct interests.
Our approach consists of allocating the savings that the rise in international prices allows Europe to generate as part of its agricultural support policy to those who are hit hardest by this increase.
In any case, this is the best way of resolving the international issues raised by Ireland's non-ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
We must address this because the Lisbon Treaty could make us work more effectively, more democratically, although we must not use it as an excuse for failing to respond immediately to the needs of our citizens.
The Commission will lend its full support so that we can reach an ambitious and balanced agreement with the European Parliament and the Member States.
France has made the new Social Agenda unveiled by the European Commission a few days ago one of its priorities.
This is the key to the joint success that we owe the citizens of Europe, and I would like to pay tribute to the commitment expressed here again today by the President-in-Office so that together, the Council, Parliament and the Commission can find concrete solutions to the concrete problems that our citizens have to face each day.
We need political commitment to overcome the difficulties faced by European integration.
If we cannot convince everyone that major issues such as security, climate change, energy and migration can be negotiated effectively only at European level - and with regard to the world's major regions, Europe must also be strong enough to convince the United States, India, China, and Brazil - we cannot envisage a peaceful future.
The French Presidency will also need political commitment to convince its partners that the Lisbon Treaty will help us decide more effectively and democratically on all of these common issues.
While a number of countries around the world have already adopted an immigration policy with fairly satisfactory results, most of our countries have delayed these choices.
Finally, I would like to mention two topics that are very close to my heart and are vital for the future and for our independence: food security and defence.
Our group supports the commitment of the French Presidency to lead the way by making bold proposals to its partners in these two strategic areas.
Ladies and gentlemen, European integration is an eminently political affair.
I am in no doubt that, if we are brave enough to make clear political choices, our citizens will rediscover a liking for Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are aspects of your views that we share, Mr Sarkozy, and I should first like to go into some of these in more detail.
There are 25 other countries that are part of this and, above all, it is the European Parliament that makes the final decision.
Indeed, if we want to deliver, we need instruments, and that puts us in a dilemma.
The citizens want us to be more effective, more transparent, more democratic, and they want the national parliaments to be more democratic and have more influence.
We need to try to bring this Treaty into force.
I had the impression that his previous contributions did not exactly help us to convince the Irish. (Applause, heckling) However, I am speaking about a matter on which we hold completely the opposite view to you.
I believe that is a serious error. (Applause) I want to tell you that we expect a different approach from the French Presidency.
It is the task of the European Union to restore to them the feeling that growth in Europe, the economic progress of this continent, does not serve the banks and the large conglomerates but each individual citizen.
I do not know what percentage of the Italian population is made up of Roma children, but I do know that when a government goes and says 'they will be registered as by a police records department; they must have their fingerprints taken', supposedly in order to provide them with social protection, that is a grave offence against Europe's fundamental rights.
Your country, France, gave the European community of nations its first charter of fundamental rights.
I ask you, in your role as President-in-Office of the European Council, to influence Silvio Berlusconi's government, and tell it that Europe is a community founded upon the rule of law, not a union of caprice. (Loud applause) The European Union faces many major challenges but, if we do not guarantee social welfare in Europe, people will turn away from this Europe and, when they turn away, the Treaty of Lisbon will not be of any use; the whole project will fail.
The energy and climate packages become more urgent every day.
You will need Parliament, Council and Commission to work together to a common agenda set by 27 Member States and this House.
You have plunged into a polemic with the President of the ECB and with two Commissioners, but they represent our Union and the policies we have agreed.
As Strasbourg is symbolic of renewed peace, so today the European flag flies alongside the national flags, and should be a visible representation of the symbol of all citizens united by a common project for defence, security, cultural and economic growth, and the transparency of the Central Bank: perhaps that is still missing from the new Treaty.
There can be no economic future without respect for the environment and there can be no respect for rights without recognition of the associated duties.
A new Europe for a new relationship with Africa.
The fight against counterfeiting and illegality is an economic problem but it also affects our citizens' health, and small and medium-sized enterprises are a cultural value that should be defended.
If we are ambitious enough to say that we must accept the climate package as it is one minute and that we will bow down before the German car industry lobby the next, then we have lost, because everyone will come and say: 'do not forget about us'.
Let them stay here; if they have studied here, they are not illegal immigrants.
President-in-Office, you will not protect Europeans if we do not work together to combat social and fiscal dumping.
We must stop saying that the social dimension is not part of the European remit.
The people of Europe are seeing more and more every day that all of their powers are trickling through their fingers, that their freedoms are being taken away, whether it be purchasing power, an expensive euro, GMOs, tax, fisheries, a lack of trade protection, immigration, or even football, which you yourself mentioned a few moments ago.
Everything is trickling through their fingers, and I would say, Mr President of the Republic, President of the European Union, that everything is trickling through your fingers.
As a young member of parliament, in 1957 I voted against the Treaty of Rome, the first stage of a process which, according its promoters, Monnet and Coudenhove-Kalergi among others, was to lead to the United States of Europe: this Tower of Babel that can only be built on the ruins of the nations, and first of all of my homeland, France.
It was President Uribe who persistently, against the general movement of global progressivism, won a decisive victory over criminal terrorism.
The people of Europe do not want anything to do with these plans and will not allow them to be imposed on them because they do not want to die. (The President cut off the speaker) Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches.
You can be sure that, as in the case of Mr Daul, the French Presidency appreciates the support of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and your support on matters of consensus.
It is the mobilisation of Parliament that will put pressure on the Member States that do not have the same ambitions as Parliament, the Commission and the Presidency.
I would not say, Mr Schulz, that you will have the last word.
In this case, the President-in-Office of the Council has to take into account the legitimate interests of each of the Member States.
If you ask the Member States to choose between the environment and growth, you will place us all at an impasse.
Allow me to say that I do not think so.
In this case, as President-in-Office of the Council, it is not for me to pass judgment.
I would like to add, however, Mr Schulz, that you are entirely right about raising the moral standards of financial capitalism, the rules that apply to credit rating agencies and the entirely reprehensible conduct of some of our financial establishments, and I would like to say something else: in all of our countries there have been directors of large banks who liked to lecture politicians about the rigour with which affairs of state should be conducted.
I would like to add, Mr Schulz - I say this under the watchful eye of Mr Watson - that I am against protectionism.
The Europe that we want, and, Mr Schulz, the French Presidency will make proposals on this subject, proposals for regulations to raise the moral standards of financial capitalism, because we can see now that the reasons that global growth has halted for a year is because of the sub-prime crisis and the crisis of confidence in the financial institutions, which have done whatever they like, whenever they like, lending money to anyone under any conditions.
I would like to say to Mr Schulz that I entirely agree with him.
You talked about the excesses, Mr Schulz, that are the practice in one country - it is not my place to mention it - but if we all agree on a minimum corpus for the cost, those excesses that you pointed out will no longer take place, and, Mr Cohn-Bendit, I am sure that Mr Daul would agree, why would the European Parliament not be involved in this?
It is a political commitment that I am making and I will come with Bernard Kouchner and Brice Hortefeux to present the pact to you, to discuss it with you.
Allow me to say that, if everything were going well, my appearance before the European Parliament would not necessarily have gone better, because a year from the elections, when you have the wind behind you and everything is going well, everyone is thinking of their partisan or national interests.
Personally I think that these difficulties can be an opportunity.
However, there is a point that could unite all of us, which is that we need a European energy policy, with transparency on stocks and pooling of resources on solar power, photovoltaic power, biomass power and hydraulic power.
Forgive me for not having said it during my initial speech, but defining an energy policy - notwithstanding our differences on nuclear power, notwithstanding those differences - will be a priority for the French Presidency.
It is possible to be in favour of free trade and to want to establish a balance in that free trade.
There are statesmen and women who are going to try to find the best solution.
However, my personal opinion is - and I think that this opinion should be respected, because it is respectable - that it is not by humiliating China that we will make progress on the issue of human rights, but through a frank and direct dialogue.
Regarding the way in which to defend those human rights, acknowledge that there can be a debate and that the debate will not end with the issue of the Olympic Games.
I therefore want to go there, talk about human rights and defend them.
There are things that I will not say to China, because China should be respected; but there are things that China should not say to the European countries, particularly not to France, because France and the European countries should be respected just as China should be.
It is not up to China to fix my schedule and appointments.
I will therefore defend the issue of human rights, and, at the same time, as a head of state, I have to consider something.
We need China in order to put an end to the scandal in Darfur, because China is influential in Sudan.
China has been able, through dialogue, to resolve the issue of Macao.
I have chosen dialogue, frankness and courage. (Applause) Mr President, just one minute, out of courtesy to Mr Wurtz.
However, what I meant to say is that no one has the right to take users hostage.
Mr de Villiers, I would like to say that I understand your discourse even more given that you indisputably represent a significant political tendency in our country, but also in Europe.
As for you, Mr Le Pen, as I was listening to you I was saying to myself that for years France had the great misfortune of having the most powerful extreme right wing in Europe.
I therefore wish the French Presidency, and therefore the European Presidency, success.
Finally, I do not think that the European crisis is only social and democratic.
It will build itself up, and I think that these subjects need to pervade the French Presidency.
For a French person that is fine, because in France that is a long time, as you know.
Mrs Muscardini, you can be sure that I will take your remarks fully into consideration, and that during the next six months I will try, along with the European institutions, to build a Europe that responds to your concerns.
The French Presidency has chosen to focus on four areas, which is obviously very helpful, especially regarding climate change.
I think that we need a new vision for the organisation of the world.
But equally legitimate is the right to have a referendum and that should always be protected.
There are problems and difficulties with regard to the result in Ireland, but that is not just a problem with regard to Ireland's relationship with Europe.
It is reflective of a deeper malaise for the people and Europe. (FR) Mr President, right now I would like to ask you about the position of the French Presidency regarding linguistic diversity.
This presidency programme that you have unveiled this morning shows that you want a European Union that controls literally every single aspect of our lives, everything from a common immigration policy through to how we run our hospitals and our football clubs.
You said the Polish President must keep his word, that he must ratify the Treaty because that was his agreement.
You are going to Dublin on 21 July.
Please do not do it. (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, in order to meet our expectations and those of our fellow citizens, the Council that you preside over and Parliament must demonstrate a clear, understandable and concrete political will.
The European Union should seek to demonstrate that it does not undergo globalisation without protecting its people, and I welcome your commitment to proving that.
I want just to assure you, Mr President-in-Office, and assure France, that we found the solution for Denmark and we will find a solution for the Irish people.
Connected to that is another idea for you.
The Irish 'no' must be respected.
The Irish people are fully within their rights to vote as they have done.
However, all the other countries in Europe also have the right to proceed along the road to a more democratic, more transparent Europe that is more capable of taking action.
A multi-speed Europe makes it possible for countries that want to do more together to do so, for it is important that we maintain the voluntary principle in Europe.
It is important that the countries who want to do something together do so voluntarily and that all countries have the option of joining in at any time.
Human rights are timeless; they are universal.
Ireland has rejected the Treaty of Lisbon.
I therefore thank you for saying today that none of the 27 Member States can be excluded from the European family, as the lady who spoke before me, Mrs Koch-Mehrin, might perhaps have liked to do.
Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the recent opening-up of the job market in France to Poles, among others.
We had waited some time for this to happen - a lot longer than in other countries, but better late than never.
Finally, on behalf of the millions of Europeans who are currently afflicted by ever-increasing costs, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your efforts towards bringing down VAT on fuel.
This is the 29th Presidency of the Council that I have experienced, and I must say without reservation that I have never seen such a convincing presentation of a programme and a European idea as this, and I say that in all honesty. (Applause) There has been only one other time that a President-in-Office of the Council was received even more warmly, but that was only at the opening.
That was the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair.
We are sure, President Sarkozy, that you will finish your Council Presidency in six months' time with good results.
If it is a matter of working with you to bring the climate package to completion, you can count on the support of this Parliament.
I must tell you that Mrs Koch-Mehrin was obviously not listening when you explained the reasons behind your position on China.
These 10 countries include only one European country - Germany.
The 27 EU Member States represent only 14% of global emissions.
The second thing that I would like to say, Mr President, is that of course you are right and this has to be said here.
Finally, one last thing, Mr President, do not forget that the reason that Europe has a unique influence throughout the world is because it is a cradle of culture; because it is culture that cements our differences; because culture is the platform for our political systems, and that is why we are viewed in a completely different way.
Your energy will probably also be needed if there is to be determination in this field of culture too. (CS) Mr President, I should first of all like to show my appreciation for the fact that France has opened up its labour market to new Member States from 1 July and thus removed one of the last barriers between the old and new Member States.
I appreciate the fact that France wants to resolve these current issues and problems, because this is what worries and interests people.
I believe that we cannot stand before the Lisbon Treaty like a rabbit caught in headlights.
It is not the end of the world and we do not wish to create an atmosphere of crisis, so the situation must be resolved calmly, without any political pressure, without any legal tricks and in accordance with our own rules.
These rules state that no treaty can enter into force without unanimous agreement and we do not have such agreement at present.
I do not believe that it is impossible to expand further without the Lisbon Treaty.
In any case, Mr President, I wish you great success in your leadership of the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed the Union for the Mediterranean initiative, on which next Sunday's summit in Paris will focus and we hope that the initiative is successful.
So we need to work on integration between these countries and between them and Europe, and channel resources into that as well.
You have said that there is a European cultural exception but I would add, Mr President, that there is a Euro-Mediterranean cultural exception.
The Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Daul, spoke of the need to mobilise political will and I think that this Presidency has absolutely no shortage of political will.
However, Mr President, political will is necessary, but not sufficient: circumstances also count, and even if they are passing, short-term or temporary, while they exist they affect us and place limitations on us, and I welcome the fact that President Sarkozy said that we need to convert circumstances into opportunities.
President-in-Office, we hope that the French Presidency will be capable of joining forces and forging consensuses so that, as you proposed, the European Union can move forward decisively under your Presidency. (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, you wanted to place your Presidency under the aegis of the Europe that protects, and I think that there is indeed a very high expectation among European citizens.
However, this is why there is a contradiction here - and you understood the key message from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament - with the fact that the social dimension of European integration has not been given the status of one of the four main priorities of your Presidency.
The Commission has just published a social agenda, but if the Council does not commit to some concrete issues - you talked about a concrete Europe - to strengthen the powers of the European works committees, to protect temporary workers, to improve the Directive on the posting of workers so that - and this needs to be added - there is a Directive on the protection of public services and social services in the general interest, then there will not be a response to this need for protection.
One of your priorities is the Europe of immigration, but the Europe of immigration cannot be reduced to a Europe of expulsions.
Ensure that during your Presidency this commitment of moving towards 0.7% of GDP is fulfilled, which will be more effective than the disgraceful 'return directive' in contributing towards managing international immigration more effectively. (PL) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I agree with the President-in-Office.
This is a difficult moment for Europe.
I would also like to emphasise that today, happily, there is no problem with Polish support for the EU and for the Treaty.
I wish you success in the two most important matters for the next six months: the Treaty, and the energy and climate package. (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, you will have to take the bull of doubt regarding Lisbon by the horns; France already has a great deal of experience in the art of sometimes moving European integration forwards and sometimes moving it backwards.
I would also like to say that, from a social point of view, in the Lisbon Treaty there is the Charter of Fundamental Rights, there is the European social model.
So for example, more than a million signatures have already been collected from disabled Europeans, who represent one in four households and are in favour of the Treaty because it eliminates secular discrimination.
However, I do agree with what you said: before any further enlargement, we need to define new rules but without leaving Ireland out on a limb.
The wave of immigration into Europe, especially into certain Member States, and mainly my own country and those in the Mediterranean area, must be regulated and viewed as a common problem rather than a reason to make distinctions or actually exploit the situation by penalising countries that are already making so many sacrifices.
Thank you very much. (EL) Mr President, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council to say: I was looking forward to your speech today with particular interest.
The whole world is faced with one of the gravest economic crises in recent decades, but Europe is also facing its own crises.
It is also obvious that today some Member States do not want political unification for Europe, and do not want our predecessors' vision to be realised.
The institutional crisis will be solved, but how can the identity crisis be solved?
The first is your position on the Treaty.
We also need a timetable for Macedonia.
We would like the Council to come to an agreement and accept this institution that Europe is so in need of. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I were to summarise this morning's debate, I would say that it is good that France holds the Presidency at this time, and good that you, President Sarkozy, occupy the position of President-in-Office of the Council.
A new culture of subsidiarity will bring renewed approval to Europe; I am in total agreement with President Barroso on that.
As somebody who canvassed for a 'yes' vote, I know he will agree with me when I say that an Irish 'no' is just as legitimate as a French, Dutch or Danish 'no'.
Europe needs France, especially at this difficult time; it needs the France that was converted, with you, President Sarkozy, after the French referendum.
I would like to conclude with a few words on the dangerous phenomenon of the re-nationalisation of Europe.
I am very grateful to President Sarkozy and of course also to President Barroso for giving us their time today.
Therefore I should like to finish by giving the floor first to President Barroso and then to President Sarkozy.
Of course, President Sarkozy and all of us would have preferred the horizon to be clearer from an institutional point of view, but I think that it is precisely during these difficult times that we can see the political capacity and measure the full importance of a strong political will.
In our democratic national systems, each time that there is a political discussion, even sometimes one that is very polarised, we do not call into question the very legitimacy of the State, while very often in Europe when those of us who are for Europe strongly express these objections, we have to confront those who are against Europe and who explore all sorts of populisms in order to damage our institutions and compromise this great project of peace and solidarity that is the European project. (Applause) This is why we really need to be able to express all these points of view, but while strengthening the pro-Europe camp during this particularly difficult time.
I therefore hope that the debate that takes place over the next six months will strengthen the European institutions as well as our project for the Europe of the future.
This specific question was from Mrs Napolitano regarding the Euromed cultural programme.
I am keen to inform you that the current programme, the Euromed cultural programme, still has an allocation of EUR 15 million for this year.
For 2009-2010 it is true that nothing has been decided yet, but there is a great deal of pressure on external expenditure, and in these cases, what happens, quite frankly, is that the third countries concerned tend to prioritise bilateral cooperation to the detriment of regional budgets.
It is therefore an issue that should be discussed with the Euromed countries.
It is, of course, an element of greater political appropriation, and is also political upgrading, in particular thanks to the biennial summit; but it is also the dimension brought by specific regional projects and, now I also hope, by very specific projects to which we will be able to add a stronger private sector dimension, as we still need more resources.
The European Parliament is at the heart of parliamentary democracy.
The Presidency needs the European Parliament and is therefore at its disposal. (Applause) If the speakers will excuse me, I would like to say a few words to each of them.
I would like to say to our British Conservative friends, 'believe that Europe needs you, that you have a place there, and that if the British have one foot in and one foot out, Europe will be weakened'.
Take Austria, for example, which is led by a socialist Prime Minister and Government; they will tell you that the retirement age is 65, and that the contribution period is 45 years.
You are aware of how many difficulties I encountered in bringing the contribution period to 40 years, and I did not immediately gain the support of the French Socialist Party.
Speaking time cannot be split between the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the President-in-Office of the Council.
President Sarkozy, are you willing to allow a question from Mr Schulz?
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, yes, provided that I do not get caught in the crossfire of an all-German debate. (DE) Thank you very much, Mr President, you are most kind.
Mr President, you will notice that I already have a socialist on my right, but there is a space for a socialist on my left. (Applause) As you know, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that we are wasting time because I think that democracy at European level can be free of the violence that it sometimes has at national level.
Mrs De Sarnez is quite right.
We need to change our development policy, making food agriculture a priority.
You also called on me to defend a vision of Europe.
To answer you, Mr Crowley, yes we do need development in order to avoid illegal immigration.
There are 475 million young Africans who are under the age of 17, and there are 12 km of the Strait of Gibraltar between Europe and Africa.
Even if you are a British person who loves his country, you cannot resolve all its immigration problems, and I have to tell you that France does not intend to be the United Kingdom's border guard.
President Barroso will be able to say this better than anyone.
We need Poland, but we also need to have respect for a man's word when it is given.
Of course we should not force the hands of the Irish and we need to respect them, but we need to have the courage to say to our Irish friends: 'You also need to respect the other countries that have ratified the Treaty.
We are not lecturing you, but consider that others also have an opinion to offer and that at some point we will have to find a common path.
Europe does not want to continue without you, but Europe cannot come to a halt just because of you.' I say this with all the respect I have for a country that has voted 'no'.
The French Presidency, along with the Presidency of the Commission and the Presidency of the European Parliament need to take the initiative.
Personally, I think that there is a solution, but it is certainly not in maintaining the status quo or in saying 'we will wait and let time do the work'.
Personally I think that time works against us, that Europe has been waiting for years and that there is no point in it waiting any longer.
I know that the multi-speed Europe does exist.
I would also like to say to those who are concerned about Croatia that I am of course in favour of us continuing the negotiations, and I think that it would be a serious mistake to close Europe's door to the Balkans, because the Balkans need the peace and democracy that the Union can bring them, but I will not go back to the Lisbon debate.
I would simply like to draw your attention to the fact that I am convinced that the price of oil is going to continue to rise.
There is 3% less oil production each year due to stocks being exhausted, and 2 to 3% more oil consumption, due to the growth of emerging countries.
Ukraine is not insignificant, it has 42 million inhabitants.
I think that in Europe, we need leaders and that in his time Tony Blair was indisputably one of those leaders.
Yes, Mr Goebbels, others do need to make an effort, and this is entirely the issue that will be raised in the negotiations on climate change, but Europe needs to set an example.
Personally I think that we need to take the risk of acting.
Fundamentally, Mr Goebbels, my political philosophy is that nothing is worse than inaction.
I would also like to say to Mr Zahradil that it is not a question of creating a crisis regarding Lisbon, but we should also not act as if nothing is happening.
I will not respond to Mrs Napoletano as President Barroso gave you a good answer.
Therefore, you see, I am quite happy for us to call for social harmonisation, but I would like to say to our French socialist friends that social harmonisation involves not advocating ideas in France that no one else is advocating in Europe, because that is an exception and our country is suffering as a result.
Mr Barón Crespo, Doha, yes I said it to President Barroso, I said it to Gordon Brown, but in short, Doha, but not at any price.
I would like to defend two ideas that are close to my heart.
There is no French exception from this point of view.
Firstly, as President-in-Office of the Council, I must loyally defend the Union's position.
We are therefore unanimous in Europe, even if it is not for the same reasons, in saying that as things stand, it is not good enough; that Europe has made all the effort and it cannot continue to make efforts if the other big regions of the world are not committed to moving forward.
From this point of view, I think that we are all in agreement.
In any case, the fact that she is Hungarian is already an undeniable asset.
If there is indeed a place where European identity should be defined, I think, and I hope that President Barroso will agree, it is not in the European Council, or the Commission, but first of all in the European Parliament.
I have been a Member of the European Parliament for 29 years, and I cannot remember a time when a President-in-Office of the Council spent three-and-a-half hours in discussion with us and responded to every speech.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) I believe that France has taken over the European Union Presidency at a crucial moment, when Europe is in search of adequate answers to the numerous challenges of a strategic nature.
Finally, France will take over the EU presidency during the Year of Intercultural Dialogue and it should successfully continue the actions in this field.
I would first of all like to welcome the European commitment of the President-in-Office of the Council, Nicolas Sarkozy, and his vision concerning the current challenges facing the Union.
The priority of a European legal immigration policy is also a human, economic and social necessity.
I would like to congratulate Brice Hortefeux on his excellent work on the European immigration pact.
The President is right to defend the CAP, which has never been more necessary.
President Sarkozy spent roughly a third of his speech defending the Lisbon Treaty and on continuing pressurisation and blackmail of Ireland, forgetting what the very rules of the European Union say on the entry into force of a new Treaty - ratification by all Member States.
He is aware of the opposition that exists to the proposal to amend the working time directive and the proposals that the Council approved and sent to the European Parliament, aimed at weakening labour rights, opening the door to a longer average working week of up to 60 or 65 hours, deregulation of employment and lower wages.
in writing. - (PL) I would like to express the hope that the six months of the French Presidency will be marked by fruitful, effective work for the good of all citizens of a united Europe.
In Poland, for example, in 2005 over 17% of employed people were working in agriculture.
I hope that the French Presidency will bring a solution to several disputed questions relating to the European agricultural model.
We need to bear in mind that these countries too support their farmers.
My view is that higher agricultural product prices are creating a development opportunity for European agriculture.
After Sarkozy pulled the wool over his people's eyes, stating that he would respect the will expressed in the referendum carried out in 2005 - which rejected the 'European Constitution'-, at the same time as pushing ahead with the 'mini-Treaty', which basically rehashed the content of the rejected Treaty, presenting it in another form and avoiding a further referendum, he now finds himself in charge of the process kick-started by Angela Merkel, that is to say, to attempt once more to impose the federalist, neoliberal, militarist Treaty that has already been rejected three times.
Deaf, dumb and blind to the will expressed by the Irish people, the EU is conspiring for the latter to hold another referendum in 2009 even before the EP elections.
in writing. - (HU) One of the most important tasks of the French Presidency will be coordinating the climate change obligations of the Member States.
It is very important that we reduce the emission of greenhouse gases at Union level.
It would certainly be scandalous if the Member States that did not reduce but rather increased their emissions between 1990 and 2005 now received a reward from the European Union and continued to keep the advantage they have that is contradictory to the Kyoto Protocol.
I hope that the French Presidency will never accept such mockery of the Kyoto Protocol and negative discrimination against the new Member States, including my homeland.
in writing. - (PL) I would like to thank the French President for a speech that raises many of the EU's fundamental problems.
It is little consolation that virtually the whole world finds itself in a situation that is close to critical.
The almost 500 million citizens of the EU currently constitute less than 8% of the world's population, and in 40 years' time this proportion will be barely at the election threshold - 5%.
It is precisely in this light that we view the case of Ireland.
in writing. - (PL) As generally anticipated, one of the priorities of the French Presidency has become the issue of ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Unexpectedly for most observers, though, the principal character at the start of the French Presidency is Poland or, to be precise, not so much Poland as the Polish President, Lech Kaczyński.
The Treaty was ratified by the Sejm and by the Senate.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, I respect the clear wish of the President-in-Office of the Council Nicholas Sarkozy to adopt an ambitious attitude towards the EU energy and climate package and to achieve a Convention in that regard during the French Presidency.
The situation is serious.
The pact on immigration is a necessary priority in order to diminish illegal immigration and build a common policy on legal immigration.
Nevertheless, I would like to emphasize an aspect you should take into consideration before starting the planned actions: the pact should comprise a series of actions taking into account the restrictions on the European labour market, imposed on workers from certain new Member States.
It is not normal for the economic migration from third countries to outmatch the free movement between countries inside the Union.
In this respect, I would like to congratulate France, which has taken the first step in this direction on 1 July, when it opened its labour market for the citizens of the countries acceding in 2004.
in writing. - France has taken upon itself the mission to lead the European agenda for six months in a difficult context created after Ireland rejected the Lisbon Treaty.
The programme of the French presidency of the EU is ambitious, but it should also be aware of the expectations of the population.
The latest Eurobarometer poll shows that only 52% of EU citizens consider membership to be a good thing for their country.
There is need of a strategy to make European citizens aware that the common interests are much more important from an economic and political view than the things that differentiate us.
As regards the second priority of the French presidency of the EU - the common agricultural policy and its preparation for future challenges - mention should be made that the maintaining of a single-payment system is applicable in Romania as of 2013.
A beneficiary of the CAP as well, Romania will receive this year EUR 735 million in European direct aid for Romanian farmers.
in writing. - (ET) This year is an opportunity for the European Union to look in the mirror and see whether the decisions we made last year have borne fruit.
We have also tackled issues of protection: joint European forces have been carrying out military operations in the wider world and since 2004 we have created EU battle groups and emergency response units.
The new Presidency in the person of President Nicolas Sarkozy has brought freshness and promise to European policy, has given us the idea of a mini-agreement, and has taken a new approach to the new Member States.
in writing. - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at the last European Summit in Brussels the creation of the Mediterranean Union was discussed - a significant initiative for the whole Mediterranean region and a priority of the French Presidency.
in writing. - (RO) In the next six months, the French presidency shall have a great responsibility for the future of the European Union.
The Union needs the Lisbon Treaty.
The French presidency should also support the common agricultural policy enabling European farmers to produce more.
Together with all Member States, the French presidency should find solutions to the Union's impasse following the Irish referendum.
The French presidency announced its priorities for the next period: climate change, immigration, the common agricultural policy, the Union's defence and security.
I have no doubt that you wish to appear - to paraphrase Dominique de Villepin - in this 'temple' of the European Parliament - as a 'guardian of an ideal and a guardian of a conscience'.
