As the first President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Theodor Heuss, so aptly put it in 1956 - and please note that he was a Liberal - Europe is built on three hills: Golgotha, the Acropolis in Athens and the Capitol in Rome.
The sole foundation of this European Union appears to be the internal market.
The European Parliament is therefore largely in agreement and has also repeatedly expressed this in its resolutions.
The Continent and its people require a uniform rule of law, at least in the form ...
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, it comes as no surprise that this question attracts such attention, because this is a really pivotal and very important issue.
The future framework directive, as a result of the review of the consumer contract law acquis, is not dependent on the outcome of the CFR, which is a longer-term project and run separately.
I know that one of the major events in 2006 - if I am not mistaken - took place in Vienna, and the outcome of that conference was very inspiring for our work.
Of course, we as Parliament do have an enormous interest - and this is also the key reason why this oral question was tabled again today - in the fact that we are very consciously keeping up the suspense and keeping the discussion going not only at the level of the working group we have set up and at committee level, but also here with you in plenary.
In any case it will be so late that it will presumably no longer be possible to deal with the content in depth in this legislative term and the next Parliament will therefore have to do so in the next term of office.
At the moment we have a situation in which we are having to live in a happy coexistence of the country of origin principle and country of destination principle alongside the many directives and European legislative decisions with up to 28 legal systems, all of which have also to be simultaneously applied - depending on the circumstances.
This is not right in practice because nobody - no solicitor, judge or barrister - is in a position to know 28 European legal systems.
A meeting of director-generals or their representatives will take place on the 11 December - which means tomorrow - and the intention is to prepare a college decision in 2008 on the scope, contents and form of the CFR.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 12 December 2007.
