For that reason, I think that the air navigation services will do a good job here. - (DE) Madam President, may I take this opportunity not only to explain that I voted in favour, but also to raise an issue which is of great concern to me, namely the problem of taxation of aviation fuel.
We are a supervisory body; let us first put our own house in order and consider the funds paid by the European Parliament and its Members. - Madam President, it is always a pleasure to be present with you in explanations of votes.
Nevertheless, I did support this review. - Madam President, I want to comment on Amendment 9 to the resolution on CARIFORUM and, indeed, Amendment 4 to the resolution on Côte d'Ivoire.
Particularly in the case of Côte d'Ivoire, there was concern over the fact that, actually, there was not really a stable government in the country, and there were concerns over whether you could make a deal with a country in that position.
If you look at the example of Ghana, the country only produces 30-35% of the rice its people consume.
They should support the opening up of the markets and make sure that we support the entrepreneurs and support poor citizens. - Madam President, I want to support the Mitchell report, particularly where the rapporteur states the need for greater cooperation between the two banks to ensure that there is no overlap in their operation.
In the region I represent, there is a large Toyota plant at Burnaston in Derby, where various measures to cut costs have already been enacted to meet the new financial environment.
in writing. - Although Malta and Gozo are territorially the smallest EU state they have control over extensive air space.
The idea, as the Committee on Transport and Tourism pointed out, is that the most effective and most efficient way of creating a Single European Sky is by means of a top-down approach.
I voted in favour of the report on the performance and sustainability of the European aviation system, presented by my Romanian fellow Member Mr Marinescu.
I voted in favour of the report from my colleague, Marian-Jean Marinescu, as this legislative package is intended to improve the performance and sustainability of the European aviation system.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the performance and sustainability of the European aviation system.
It should be possible to reduce the current 60 blocks and control centres to between 15 and 20.
In the past, each flight has been an average of 49 km longer than necessary due to the fragmentation of airspace.
Functional airspace blocks are essential because they allow the air traffic control systems of several Member States to be integrated into one European transport system.
in writing. - I support the recognition that flight efficiency needs to be improved and air traffic delays minimised contained in this report.
I voted in favour of the report drafted by my colleague, Marian-Jean Marinescu, aimed at improving the performance and sustainability of the European aviation system.
I welcome the rapporteur's proposals on developing an initiative for a full system approach in the field of safety in order to keep air transport safe and sustainable.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the report on aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services.
The introduction of the new regulation will protect consumers by establishing a high level of food safety, environmental protection and protection of animal health, while at all times observing the precautionary principle as laid down in Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002, laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on novel foods, as it simplifies the procedure for authorising novel foods and placing them on the market.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the report by Kartika Tamara Liotard on greater safety for novel foods.
Over 100 applications for approvals of novel foods have been made since 1997 and over 20 have been approved.
For these reasons I voted in favour of the Liotard report.
I have voted in favour of Mr Liotard's proposal on novel foods.
If the Montreal protocol, which entered into force 20 years ago and was signed by 193 nations, had not banned products that contributed to the reduction of the ozone layer, planet earth would have faced a catastrophic scenario.
The main substances attributed to the depletion of atmospheric ozone are halogenated hydrocarbons, chemicals invented in 1928 as refrigerants.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
Furthermore, I concur with the tabled amendments, which set out to improve further the regulation in view of the issues, so that the EU can set itself more ambitious targets and take on a leading role in the world.
in writing. - The mid-term review of the Financial Framework 2007-2013 is not practical or realistic because of the lack of certainty linked to: the ratification process of the Treaty of Lisbon; the end of the current parliamentary term; the outcome of the European elections; and the setting-up of the new Commission in the current economic context.
in writing. - (IT) I am voting in favour.
The European Union's institutional future was re-launched by the European Council in June 2007, when the 27 Member States decided to call an Intergovernmental Conference to draft a new treaty on the basis of the draft Constitution.
in writing. - (EL) The mid-term review of the Financial Framework 2007-2013 has been seen as a compromise with the 2005 decision and may be considered necessary in the current situation due to the economic crisis.
However, what must be avoided and cannot be accepted is the introduction of new policies to protect the environment and climate and policies to address the economic crisis without any increase in the resources of the Community budget, which has remained stable even after the latest enlargement of the EU.
in writing. - (SV) We have voted in favour of the report on the Mid-Term Review of the 2007-2013 Financial Framework, as it clearly calls for more transparency and a clearer link between the priorities we have set and the outcome.
However, those responsible for this situation are covering it up, namely the European Commission, Parliament and the Council as budgetary authorities.
They also deserve trade relations that take into account their individual situations but also our own interests, and particularly those of our outermost regions, which are overlooked in your policies.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the Economic Partnership Agreement between the EC and Cariforum.
I believe that EPAs should support the sustainable development of African, Caribbean and Pacific states and encourage them to participate in international trade and diversify their economies.
in writing. - It is incredibly important that the unique needs of every ACP country are taken into account in EPA agreements.
For this reason, I have voted against this agreement.
It is also important to note that many ACP governments were pressured by the European Commission to sign the interim agreements before the expiry of the waiver.
It is truly important that these issues be carefully considered and debated by each ACP state before they are approved by the EU.
in writing. - (NL) This Parliament wants to bring up the issue of working visas for Ivorians valid for at least 24 months at the negotiations on a stepping stone Economic Partnership Agreement with Côte d'Ivoire.
I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the stepping stone Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d'Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part.
This is because I believe that an agreement of this kind with Ghana could threaten cohesion and weaken the regional integration of ECOWAS, which we should be supporting, since it is most capable of producing positive effects for the local economy in the medium to long term, through its greater possibilities for participation by local bodies.
in writing. - It is incredibly important that the unique needs of every ACP country are taken into account in EPA agreements.
I have voted against the motion for a resolution on an Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one part, and the SADC EPA States, on the other part.
I do not think that the Economic Partnership Agreement has brought great advantages for those who export from ACP countries to the European Union since the Cotonou trade agreements expired at the beginning of 2008, even if goods from ACP countries can enter the EU market without being subject to customs tariffs or quotas.
I have voted against the motion for a resolution on an Economic Partnership Agreement between Eastern and Southern Africa States on the one part and the European Community and its Member States on the other part.
I have voted against the motion for a resolution on an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one part, and the East African Community Partner States, on the other part.
I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the stepping-stone Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Central Africa, of the other part.
I firmly believe that the stepping-stone Economic Partnership Agreement has created great advantages for exporters in Central African countries, above all since the Cotonou agreements expired in January 2008, by increasing their opportunities to export to the European Union.
in writing. - Today I was able to vote in favour of the Parliament giving its assent to the EPA and the interim EPAs only because of the assurances and undertaking of the new Commissioner, Cathy Ashton, and because the governments of the countries concerned largely see this as a step forward, albeit insufficient.
in writing. - (ES) I voted against the reports on the EPAs with the Caribbean islands, and also against the Côte d'Ivoire interim agreement, among others.
In these circumstances, I simply feel that it is not the best time to enter into an international agreement with long-term consequences.
in writing. - I gave assent to the CARIFORUM EPA and the Côte d'Ivoire Interim EPA in response to the guarantees which Commissioner Ashton gave this week.
However, our vote does take account of the very encouraging positions adopted by Commissioner Ashton in the plenary session of Monday 23 March.
Cooperation between the two banks has grown up on a regional basis and therefore the way in which it takes place differs according to the area in question.
I voted against Mr Mitchell's report on the 2007 Annual Reports of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Providing financial support without the involvement of civil society in the countries concerned can only worsen the situation in those countries, rather than improve it.
In fact, it is estimated that 12 million jobs in Europe are directly or indirectly affected by the automotive industry.
That is why I voted in favour of this joint resolution, which calls on the European authorities to work with the Member States to introduce measures that will make it possible to ensure the future competitiveness of the European automotive industry and continued employment in the sector.
I voted for this resolution on the future of the automotive industry as it calls for consistent, harmonised initiatives from EU Member States for the European automotive industry and for the creation of a proper European framework for action.
The European Commission and European Parliament think that industry should manage largely by itself in the crisis.
Action taken by the EU and Member States can only support action taken by the producers themselves.
A number of countries have adopted plans to help the automotive sector, but as the Commission has observed, these plans must be in accord with EU law and prevailing principles on competition, and in particular with the principles for awarding state aid, in order not to disrupt the functioning of the European internal market.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament is going to endorse the European Commission diktats that fiercely oppose any effort by the Member States to protect their national automotive industries.
Those Members who lend their support to such industrial and social destruction will have to answer for it to the workers and their families, who are the direct victims of their ideological blindness.
The idea that it is possible, or desirable, to isolate and protect an economic sector from competition, where this competition is healthy and fair, is an economic error and a political deception.
in writing. - (NL) Green politicians are convinced that we cannot view the economic and environmental crises separately.
