There was an explosion in a fireworks warehouse which has already caused at least sixteen deaths and has injured over six hundred people, six of whom are in a critical condition, with many more people reported missing.
I have contacted the Dutch authorities to express our deepest sympathy, both in a personal capacity and on behalf of the European Parliament.
I find this an example of European solidarity which is what we stand for in this Parliament.
On behalf of the 31 delegates, I would also like to thank the Commission which immediately expressed sympathy in the form of a letter from Mr Prodi to the municipality of Enschede.
I also notified the Spanish Government of our utmost support in the fight against terrorism.
A request from the GUE/NGL, the Greens and the TDI to add a new sub-item entitled "Tunisia" ; one from the PPE Group to add an item on "Spectator safety and the prevention of hooliganism at the forthcoming European football championship" ; and an item from the Union for a Europe of Nations Group to add a new sub-item entitled the "Situation of Bhutan refugees in Nepal" .
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the association agreement between the European Union and Tunisia has been in force since 1 March 1998.
Our Group is therefore asking everyone to stop listening to the leaders of the two main parties, and instead to act like independently-minded adults and resolve at long last to have a debate on the situation in Tunisia.
It would have been a good thing if, in the past, when the Socialist Group proposed an urgent debate on the situation in Tunisia, we could have counted on the votes of those people who are protesting today, because we have not managed to have that urgency approved.
However, I would like to remind you - I was the first speaker at the last Brussels part-session and I asked you, Madam President, on behalf of all of us, to write to President Ben Ali of Tunisia - that what we have to do now is wait for the President of Tunisia to reply to you in your capacity as leader of this Parliament.
I believe that if Mr Cohn-Bendit, for example, wishes for a full debate on this question, he should support our proposal so that we can include it in the next agenda.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
A number of problems have already been raised by people such as the Belgian Police Federation, and there have been many documentaries in various countries about various games and the security arrangements for Euro 2000.
However, that does mean that we have a problem in the short term, namely what we will be doing this coming Friday.
Thank you, Mrs van der Laan.
Thank you, Mr Blak.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, we are not going to start a debate on this sensitive issue.
According to Mrs Van der Laan, it is not the intention that we now pass judgement on an action regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure.
The first possibility is to scrap Friday sittings altogether.
Clearly, this last possibility will lead to situations in which other Members can request that the quorum be checked, meaning that we will once again be unable to hold votes this coming Friday.
Thank you, Mrs Ahern, we shall take steps to ensure that this does not happen again.
Madam President, I should like to respond to what my fellow Member has just said.
There are Members in the Chamber who attend from Monday to Friday, and remain until the end of the sitting on Friday.
The Dutch group which made Fridays a subject for discussion in this way did not do this because they are against Strasbourg or anything like that.
This has also given rise to quite a major debate in my own country, Sweden.
No, Mrs van der Laan, you ought to know that according to the Rules of Procedure, this is a request that should have been presented in due form and at the due time, and this was not the case.
It only remains for me to express the hope that there will be a good attendance this Friday, votes or not.
It is in this spirit of optimism that we can begin this debate on our report on the prices for agricultural products in 2000/2001.
In the past, this report was always the subject of fierce debates on farm incomes.
The Commission is proposing to further reduce the additional charges on the intervention prices for cereals in two stages and then to fix them.
If we start to discuss the budget for 2001 in structural terms in September or October of this year, then it is essential to know what the Commission has in mind for the sugar sector.
The proposals on setting institutional prices and monthly increments cover the products already mentioned.
In our group' s view, the reduction in the monthly increments for cereals cannot be supported, not least because the Commission' s proposal undermines the Berlin decisions on Agenda 2000.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer much point in discussing the package of agricultural prices since the 1992 CAP stipulated the gradual transition from a production price support system to a direct aid system, increasingly required to be dissociated from the production volumes.
And as Agenda 2000 adopted and extended this approach, the establishment of agricultural prices is henceforth multiannual.
The same applies to moisture content in cereals.
The Berlin agreement must continue to be our benchmark.
This is the principled position that the European Union adopted in Seattle with regard to its trading partners and competitors within the World Trade Organisation.
In particular, the European Union must fulfil its commitments in order to enable European farmers to have a clear idea of the policy as it affects them, in order to be able to manage their farms as wisely as possible.
In this connection, then, I would urge the Commission to provide us very quickly with its proposed reform of the COM in sugar.
All these points which I mentioned are also backed by the Liberal Group.
If I am not mistaken, the agricultural budget only comprises one item of approximately EUR 100 million for the control of animal diseases.
In anticipation of the budgetary discussions in September, we would like the Commission to provide us with the necessary data so that we can take this into consideration in the discussions of the budgets for the year 2001.
Up until 2006 the Commission should work on the basis of the realistic targets set and should deduce its financial needs from them.
To achieve its objectives, the Commission should, in my view, be invited to present a report showing how costs have changed in the agricultural sector.
Further developments will show whether the reform of the EU' s agricultural policy by means of Agenda 2000 is capable of achieving its overall aims or not.
Mr President, notwithstanding the fact that Agenda 2000 has set the parameters governing agriculture for the period up to 2006, the annual price package is still very important.
To farmers the price received in the marketplace should represent the real value of their professional endeavours, rather than what they often perceive as social support for the products of their labour.
In this context the support for agriculture - it is substantial and I acknowledge that because it represents almost 50% of the entire budget - must be seen also as a subsidy to consumers.
In recent weeks we have heard much talk about a review of the agricultural budget which was agreed in Berlin only a few months ago.
I would also like to congratulate the Commission on having included a multiannual element in the proposals.
Nevertheless, although this is a little repetitive, I would like you to bear in mind and reconsider, with regard to cereals, both moisture content and the monthly price reviews, since they are issues which could cause us considerable harm.
There is also another question, and I feel that harsh words are required: every time a problem arises in this European Union or in its political positions - positions which I do not question - we consider taking funds away from the agricultural budget.
With regard to table grapes, on 31 July aid expires for the production of juice, which is included in the COM in wine.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Agenda 2000 has created a certain kind of stability for the European Agricultural Policy.
It is necessary for this Parliament to make decisions on a new and ongoing agricultural policy after 2006.
The question therefore is: what are the farmers doing about this?
A blatant example is that of oil, which also concerns my country, and in particular my native island of Lesbos.
The same applies to cotton where, although the minimum price is EUR 101 per 100 kilos, Greek producers will be paid less than EUR 65 because of the co-responsibility levy.
I therefore think that this policy calls for caution, Commissioner.
The impression they get is that we intend to make the farming sector increasingly less productive in economic terms.
There is one particular situation that I would like to highlight, which concerns the issue of fruit and vegetables and which is of particular importance to my country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank you, Mrs Jeggle, very much for your report.
Unfortunately, I also have a problem with including mustard seed in the support system, as you propose in Amendments Nos 1 and 3, because that would be contrary to the Marrakech Agreement.
This is a much more complex problem because here the Commission had originally intended to make it possible precisely to transfer funds between the two sub-headings.
At the moment, however, we are, of course, still in the discussion phase; the actual budget debate on the 2001 budget is yet to take place.
The rejection does not primarily or exclusively concern this issue of the 300 million; the proposals as a whole were given a negative reception by ECOFIN.
Mrs Redondo asked a number of questions about the organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, about nuts and about ornamental plants, and Mr Cunha asked about processed tomatoes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
All the same, in my opinion, the Commission proposals overshoot the mark a little.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted this report by a large majority.
Mr President, according to Mrs Schierhuber' s present report, if something goes wrong with a certain regulation in Europe, in this case flax, it is quite possible to ensure that that regulation can remain intact by means of new proposals.
Mr President, we agree with the objectives pursued in the Commission' s proposal on the new regulation on flax and hemp: to regulate and balance the markets, simplify the common agricultural policy and prevent fraud.
The inclusion of flax and hemp within the general regulations on herbaceous plants requires the establishment of a single yield for all areas of the European Union.
With regard to aid for processing, we feel that it is completely inappropriate that there should be transitional aid for the processing of short-fibre flax, as the Commission proposes, which would end in 2006.
We believe that it should be long-term aid and that it should be brought into line with the aid for the processing of long-fibre flax, which is the only way of guaranteeing the commercial production of short-fibre flax in an industrial sector which provides a genuine alternative to synthetic products.
Commissioner, we are in complete agreement on the need for stabilisers with regard to this crop, but we completely disagree with the national guaranteed quantities established in the Commission' s proposal, since we feel that they are absolutely inadequate and represent quite the opposite of the actual situation in each of the countries.
We are therefore voting against the report with regard to the disappearance of these contracts.
In an unstable agricultural industry, the opportunities offered by flax and hemp in a developing market for natural fibres should not be lost.
In my own nation, Wales, flax processing plants are already being established using European Union aid.
For example, 80% of the land mass of my nation, Wales, is non-arable.
The importance of flax production being subsidised in such areas of the European Union cannot be overemphasised.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting our amendments in this regard.
I congratulate the rapporteur and call on the European Parliament to support the Agriculture Committee's report.
The elimination of aid for short-fibre flax would hinder the innovative non-food use of agricultural products, fundamentally affecting regions with low rainfall and more difficult conditions.
The production costs for long-fibre flax are higher than those for short-fibre flax and for hemp.
But the cereal support level is too low for long-fibre flax and therefore acts as a disincentive to producers to grow this flax variant.
Firstly, the Commission is explaining the need for the reform in terms of an increase in budgetary cost.
The Commission proposal offers a good, coherent and precise analysis of the sector in the European Union.
It explains the importance of flax and hemp production from both an economic and an ecological point of view.
However, it seems to me that the Commission' s considerations with regard to hemp fibre and short-fibre flax are not very realistic, either as regards its future viability or its range of uses.
If we were to follow that route, the European Union, which already falls short in terms of using this type of fibre, would cease to use it altogether, at least in some countries.
With regard to payment for processing, I cannot agree with the Commission' s proposal, either in terms of the distinction between short- and long-fibre flax or its proposals for hemp.
It has been suggested that the land eligibility rules should be disregarded for flax and hemp so that any land could be used for those crops, but without an increase in the base area.
This would allow expansion, should market conditions encourage growth, and allow new growers to enter the market.
Encouraging initiatives have been taken in this field and large investments have been made in various countries.
The only problem is that if you cut the flax premium to the level of the cereals premium and the set-aside premium, then no more flax or hemp will be cultivated in the EU and that will be that.
Mr Fischler, I am curious to hear whether you are going to accept the proposals made by the rapporteur - and I should like to thank her for her report.
If you say that you cannot accept them, we will react tomorrow and then we will have to negotiate this sound proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at another level.
The Commission proposes that aid for hemp should be reduced in three phases to the level of aid that has been set for cereals.
I now turn to the first proposal on including flax and hemp grown for fibre in the arable crops regulation.
The same goes for Amendment No 37 which is along the same lines.
I can accept Amendment No 6 on hemp.
However, irregular plots cannot simply stop being subject to checks altogether, as is recommended, at least implicitly, in Amendments Nos 5 and 16 and I cannot therefore agree to these amendments.
However, at the present time, I do not wish to agree to Amendments Nos 11, 13 and 32.
I now come to the second proposal, on the regulation on the common organisation of the market in flax and hemp grown for fibre.
That is why I cannot agree to Amendments Nos 18 and 34, even though they definitely contain further food for thought.
I do agree, however, with the ideas underlying Amendments Nos 23, 25 and 26, that is to bring the aid payable for long and short fibres more closely into line and to make the granting of aid dependent on the result of checks.
I can accept Amendments Nos 24 and 33 for those instances when the farmer and the primary processor are one and the same person.
However, I cannot agree to Amendments Nos 22 and 31 in their current form because they implicitly say that no further controls need to be carried out.
Turning, in conclusion, to the timetable, I am also prepared to accept Amendments Nos 17 and 36, in accordance with which the new rules would only enter into force on 1 July 2001.
Commissioner, you mentioned the controls which will need to be carried out in connection with the processing premium, and these must indeed take place.
That is why I should like to ask you this specific question, Commissioner: can you envisage - and I am referring here to Amendments Nos 27 and 28 and to my previous comments - that the Commission might, after all, consider rethinking its proposal on quotas and restructuring it?
In this regard, I have said that we are prepared to accept a quota of this kind.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
This week we are able, for the first time, to adopt a European Union legislative act which has been drawn up on the initiative of the European Parliament and on which, thank God, the Commission and the Council have cooperated positively.
It is about improved protection for accident victims in the European Union.
Obviously, we cannot in any way change either the law which has to be applied or the legal jurisdiction, but by now proposing a system whereby each insurer has a claims representative in every other country, we will probably be able, as far as the accident victim is concerned, satisfactorily to settle the claims arising from 90% of all traffic accidents which take place in another country.
Nevertheless, although I will vote for the motion, I have to say that I am very perplexed by the response I have received from the Commission to my question on an issue which is not completely related to the question of accidents which take place abroad but which nevertheless concerns the insurance sector, a sector in which, as far as I am concerned, in Italy, truly unimaginable events occur, which leads me to suspect that Parliament' s inspection system is, indeed, defunct.
Although it is true that in certain areas a decidedly larger number of accidents is recorded, it is also true that, when people belong to the same state and the same Community, events are shared by citizens who live in the same district, the same area, the same country and the same Community.
With regard to the payment of premiums, absolutely incredible, unbelievable things happen: in a town such as Alexandria, for example, premiums are less than half the level of those in a town such as Naples or Catania.
In this regard, I would like to repeat the question I tabled, to which the Commission replied that the European Parliament has no competence in this sector.
The Commission has perhaps been constructive in the formulation of this fourth motor insurance directive.
The new directive will provide for improved information, easier procedures and quicker settlement of claims, and these are things which concern the citizens of all our Member States most directly.
As I have just said, the Commission's proposal was a response to a parliamentary resolution in which Parliament made use of its new powers under Article 192 of the Treaty on European Union.
Lastly, Mr Bigliardo draws attention to the fact that the premia for motor vehicle insurance in Italy vary from region to region, according to the number of accidents.
You cannot ask French or German citizens living in Italy to pay a different premium from Italian citizens.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
It was important because South Africa is one of the countries which receives the most funding from the European Union for its development process.
It was urgent because the regulation which forms the basis of this cooperation and which has been in force for five years expired on 31 December 1999, from which date the different procedures in operation were left without a proper legal basis.
In fact, in the first six months of 1999, our Parliament considered the first text proposed by the Commission, adopting six amendments and forwarding them to the Council for their consideration.
The Council wanted the Committee of Experts to control all cooperation projects relating to South Africa with a budget of over EUR 3 million.
Having considered all the main issues, the amendment we are presenting today finally raises the Council' s proposal from 3 to 5 million, and this committee, whose members represent the various Member States, will therefore have fewer projects to deal with and will therefore be able to concentrate more on a global view of such an important field of action.
The second proposal concerns the budgetary framework for development cooperation between the European Union and South Africa for the 7-year period, including 2000, which is referred to in the regulation under discussion.
During the previous five years the budgetary framework had been EUR 125 million per year.
Finally, the proposal approved by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on whose behalf I am speaking, was extremely reasonable: the EUR 123.5 million already allocated for 2000 and the EUR 127 million for each of the subsequent six years, amounting to a budgetary framework of EUR 885.5 million for the seven years laid down in the regulation.
The aim is to avoid a third reading, put an end to the current intolerable legal vacuum and provide significant political impetus to our development cooperation with South Africa.
We also hope that these proposals are acceptable to the Commission, despite the fact that theirs - 25 million for the commitology question and 850.5 million for the budgetary framework - are somewhat different to the ones that we are presenting.
If we are not understood, it will be entirely down to the Council or the Commission that we become involved in a third reading, with the consequences which the lack of a proper legal basis may have on the projects in operation in our development cooperation with South Africa.
The figure for the budgetary framework suggested by the Commission, which is very close to our own proposal, should in any event have arrived at the Committee on Development and Cooperation on time, so that Parliament could have approved it and above all with the certainty that, in the event that we had adopted it, the Council would also have accepted it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion here on the Union's development cooperation with South Africa, on which I particularly congratulate the rapporteur, is, leaving aside its content, a striking example of the Council's delaying tactics towards the European Parliament.
Our former fellow-MEP, Mr Fassa, presented the report for its first reading in Parliament in May of last year.
The Council accepted nearly all of the amendments.
Secondly, the threshold of EUR 5 million, which has now been settled on, constitutes a good compromise in my view.
The limit of EUR 5 million gives sufficient room for manoeuvre.
In making these efforts, the rapporteur has, for his part, done everything within his power to present a proper report on the regulation.
The Union continues to attach great importance to stable development in South Africa, not only for the sake of the people there, but also because this is in the interests of the development of its neighbours north of the Limpopo.
By adopting this regulation, the Union is showing that it still backs the economic, political and societal reform process in South Africa.
Mr President, I also warmly congratulate the rapporteur who has shown enormous commitment to this report.
The regulation for South Africa expired on 31 December 1999.
It is clear, as the rapporteur has suggested, that we need to proceed with some urgency in order to provide a legal base for our essential work in South Africa.
This budget line is the work of the European Parliament.
I was the budget rapporteur in 1994 when the Development Committee established the line.
Indeed, it is my view that the Council has rather cynically orchestrated the eight-month delay in response to the first reading in order that it could better manage its negotiations on the South Africa trade and development agreements.
This has put life-saving programmes at risk and any delay now would exacerbate the existing impression in South Africa of a European Union which seeks only to serve its own interests first.
We risk jeopardising economic developments in the Eastern Cape and work in the Eastern Cape with the Ministry of Education.
We risk jeopardising support for social housing programmes in South Africa.
In this Parliament we have to make every effort now, as the rapporteur has said, to make it possible for this money to move as speedily and as efficiently as it can to the people of South Africa.
The European Parliament position is, and always has been, realistic and morally right.
As usual we should make it very clear that we in the Development Committee regard the budget figure that we have here before us, as purely indicative.
A maximum of 5 million seems very reasonable to me.
The apartheid regime has been abolished, all that is left to tackle now is apartheid itself.
I strongly support his aim of getting this regulation brought into force as quickly as possible with no third reading.
The rapporteur has been very generous in his interpretation of the Council's inexplicable 8-month delay in responding to Parliament's six amendments during the first reading.
To come to the substance of the issue, on the budget it is completely unacceptable that the EU should be offering a budget cut in comparison to former years, particularly at this moment in our relationship with South Africa.
Perhaps there is an image abroad that South Africa is an increasingly developed country and does not really need these funds.
Let us not forget either that the Commission and Council turned down the idea of a separate new financial instrument to give support to neighbouring countries which need to adjust themselves to the new framework resulting from the Trade and Cooperation Agreement.
I am not as reassured on this point as the rapporteur and I would have preferred to see a separate budget line which could have been seen and monitored more easily.
For example, in its agreement to a highly asymmetrical liberalisation agreement with the other SADC countries which will benefit those countries.
Mr President, it has taken a year, but we have finally reached the point where we can discuss the regulation on development cooperation with South Africa at second reading.
I can imagine that he is intent on keeping the EUR 910 million budget for development cooperation with South Africa.
This is why South Africa' s neighbouring countries can also benefit from European development projects.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur not only for the work he has put in to produce this report but also for the rather unique way he has had to handle the situation that the Development Committee and Parliament found itself in.
We are doing much for South Africa and I hope, in return, President Mbeki will work for peace in the region, with particular reference to Zimbabwe.
The implication in the rapporteur's report that this regulation may have been delayed because it was being used as a bargaining chip is very worrying.
In the last session in Strasbourg we had another regulation that had also run out last December and this should not happen.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years South Africa has made a historic leap forward by abolishing the apartheid system and establishing a new political order based on the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy.
If the people of South Africa have regained their freedom, this is, of course, for the most part thanks to their persistence and courage, as well as to that of their leaders, but also, it must be said, to the political and financial support provided by European Union Member States for the reform process in South Africa.
Quite clearly, the cooperation agreement signed on 10 October 1994 was a strong message that we sent this people treated so badly by history.
With regard to the regional cooperation aspect of this regulation, I should like, in turn, to draw the Council and the Commission' s attention to the risks of economic destabilisation which may be engendered by the regulation, and even more so by the trade agreement with South Africa.
I feel that the European Union must, as a matter of urgency, take steps to arrive at an agreement with the authorities of these countries in order to compensate for any losses.
Finally, in conclusion, acknowledging our rapporteur for his clear-sightedness and for his talents as a negotiator, I should like to express my complete agreement with him on the need to remedy the existing legal vacuum to enable these agreements to come into force.
In 1995, it became our key partner in development cooperation.
In his eminent report, the rapporteur emphatically referred to the expiry date of 31 December 1999.
The European Parliament cannot possibly support cutting development aid to South Africa by ten per cent.
It can show that it is freedom, together with democratic and strong ethical and moral values, through which Africa can advance furthest. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is due to state its position at second reading on the regulation that forms the legal base for the general framework of cooperation between the European Union and South Africa.
Following a few incredibly intricate episodes, successive adjournments and time-wasting manoeuvres by the South African negotiators in accepting a regulatory text for this agreement, both parties finally agreed that a new draft of the regulations for this agreement on wines, which is due to enter into force by 1 September, is to be laid down by the end of June.
In view of these issues, I cannot agree with the rapporteur when he asks Parliament, as proof of good faith, to approve this framework regulation as a matter of urgency, without linking it to the trade aspect of the General Agreement on Trade, Development and Cooperation.
But in the South Africa case, we are ready to accept the EUR 5m threshold simply in order not to delay a decision.
The EUR 5m level gives us enough room to proceed quickly with some small projects, for instance preparatory actions or pilot operations.
Regarding Amendment No 2, Article 10(1) on the financial framework: the Commission has been aware on the one hand of the need to respect the political commitment in the trade and development cooperation agreement to maintain assistance to South Africa but, on the other hand, we have to take into account the very difficult budgetary situation caused by the new commitments made for assistance in the Balkans.
But we envisage stabilisation for South Africa at the average level of around EUR 122m per annum, with a global figure of some EUR 850.5m in the period 2000-2006.
This situation is indeed very critical and not a normal, routine situation - but unfortunately it is what we are facing - and I feel an obligation to do my utmost to secure agreement between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on the proposed approach.
I am therefore anxious both to discuss the matter again with the Committee on Development and Cooperation in Parliament and before that to seek a response from the Member States.
This is the safest way to reduce the risk of a much more serious and longer delay threatening the credibility of our cooperation with South Africa.
I must say that this situation disturbs me, because we are all working very quickly and the Commission seems to be saying that, since we are in a hurry, we must drive the car very slowly.
Firstly, I must thank the spokespeople of the different Groups for their support, although I believe that they are lending their support to a very modest position by the committee, almost a critical type of support, because the Committee on Development and Cooperation should have gone much further than it decided.
I repeat: in principle, I would not be opposed, but I do not believe that Parliament is in favour of delaying the vote.
That would mean inviting the Commissioner to the Committee on Development next week and postponing our decision until June.
The Commissioner can speak for himself but the Commission was not requesting postponement of the vote.
It is simply in order to minimise that risk that I am expressing my views as I have here.
