This means involving countries such as Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Albania in the system of European memberships, candidatures and agreements.
The European Union announced in the Thessaloniki Agenda that the western Balkan countries would sooner or later become members of the European Union.
Now is the time for practical dialogue between the Serbs and the Albanians in Kosovo, between Serbia and Kosovo, and between Serbia and the European Union.
In the past, Kosovo was part of the Yugoslav federal system and in 1974 was given practically the same status as the Yugoslav republics.
Nevertheless, Monday's decision by the General Affairs and External Relations Council was not easy.
Some may have expected the European Union as a whole to recognise Kosovo, but that is not possible because the European Union is not a state.
Thirdly, the European Union reiterated its commitment to the international mission there and its readiness to play a leading role in the region.
Fourthly, the European Union reaffirmed its commitment to the European perspective for the western Balkans.
And sixthly, the European Union is well aware of the principles of the international community, but considers that, due to its sui generis character, the case of Kosovo does not call these principles into question.
In this sense we find it particularly difficult to understand Serbia's opposition to the European Union, that is to say to its mission in Kosovo, because this mission is primarily in the interest of Kosovo's Serbian population.
This attitude also encompasses tolerance and generosity and, above all, understanding and compassion when others are in distress.
However, there have been acts of violence in Belgrade and North Kosovo.
European unity is indeed essential to enable the European Union to successfully steer the ongoing stabilisation in the Western Balkans and to help bring the Kosovo status process to a conclusion.
Several Member States have already recognised Kosovo.
The Commission fully shares this position.
On 5 March, we shall propose concrete measures for the broader region in order to advance its European aspirations.
In Kosovo, many areas are in need of development, and we must strive together to help Kosovo to help itself, to stand on its own feet as quickly as possible.
This EU perspective functions as the glue that keeps the countries of the region on a peaceful and reformist track, which is extremely important in these sensitive and difficult times.
Finally, I want to reiterate my appreciation for the unwavering support of the European Parliament for the EU perspective of the Western Balkans.
What we can do, and what the European Parliament has the responsibility to do, is to continue to invest in a European perspective for the whole region, and also apply this to Serbia.
We must all now concern ourselves with the future - the future of Serbia, of Kosovo, of the whole region.
What the EU Member States agree on unanimously is that the future of Kosovo lies in the EU.
Yet under its impetus, several Member States have weakened or are about to weaken dangerously the future credibility of international law through their support for the unilateral declaration of independence by a province of a sovereign state, a member of the UN.
Furthermore, the EU has just deeply alienated the Serbian people, without whom any regional policy in that part of Europe is impossible.
Clearly, my group cannot associate itself with the short-term self-satisfaction of the principal European leaders. (Applause) Mr President, the EU Special Representative in Kosovo and intended International Civilian Representative, my compatriot Pieter Feith, gave an inspiring interview in the Dutch press on the difficult task that lies ahead of him in Kosovo Polje.
This unilateral secessionist act is an impermissible precedent in international relations.
The recognition of the independence of Kosovo by the individual Member States or the European Union as a whole would be tantamount to amnesty for the leaders of the Albanian terrorists who have pursued ethnic cleansing against all non-Albanian communities in the region for the last few years.
Being representatives of the Bulgarian people in the EU, we call upon its institutions to refrain from recognising Kosovo as an independent state and to abide by the existing resolutions of the UN Security Council instead.
Furthermore, we call upon the Security Council to undertake decisive action to preserve the status quo and to overcome the secessionist tendencies in the name of the political stability of the Balkan Peninsula. (ES) Mr President, the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 18 February will not go down in the history of the EU as a particularly glorious date.
The first is that it has been said that this case will not set a precedent, that it is a sui generis case, as Mr Wurtz said in his speech.
Obviously this case is going to set a precedent and when international law is flouted it does not come for free and unfortunately there will be consequences.
Secondly, Mr President, how long are we going to be living with a United Nations Security Council in which there is an anachronistic right of veto for the winners of the Second World War enshrined in the San Francisco Charter in 1945?
Thirdly, Mr President, either the European Union learns once and for all that union is our strength and fragmentation is our weakness, or we will have to renounce our vocation of international leadership in this globalised world and confine ourselves to being what The Economist described us as: the 21st century's most prosperous third world region. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the Kosovo Albanians' rejoicing and delight at the freedom and independence they have gained.
At the same time, however, I understand the consternation and grief of many Serbs in Kosovo, and of course also in Serbia itself.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend heartfelt thanks to Mr Rupel, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the way in which he tried to achieve agreement in the Council in this difficult situation.
It is important to strengthen trade links between Kosovo and Serbia in order to stimulate economic growth and contribute to European integration.
In this sense, the speech by the Serbian Minister for Foreign Affairs was rather unfortunate.
Today, by recognising the independence of Kosovo, the Council and the Commission are infringing them all, as well as UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 1999, according to which Kosovo is part of Serbian territory.
For two years now you have been debating about how Kosovo will become independent and how the EU will send troops to protect its interests in the region.
We believe that the situation is extremely serious.
We believe that governments ought not to recognise this 'state', which will be a protectorate in the future, and we think that the peoples of the Balkans and Europe should not allow it. (EL) Mr President, whenever the strength of law yields to the law of the strong, the result is suffering.
The Foreign Affairs Minister of one large EU Member State said that if Slovenia became independent, other countries would isolate it for 50 years.
This must be very clear - we as the European Union must help Serbia on the way to Europe, but Serbia must also play its part in creating a peaceful, good and neighbourly atmosphere.
On the other hand it is a fact that long ago Serbia lost any moral rights it had with regard to Kosovo because the Serbian government failed to provide a proper homeland for the Albanian community living there.
Let us speed up Serbia's integration, but without relaxing the requirements in any way.
It is understandable that some EU Member States have reservations.
We welcome the fact that a large majority in the Kosovo parliament voted in favour of the Ahtisaari Plan.
It is wonderful that the European Union unanimously approved the mandate of the civilian mission in Kosovo.
To conclude, I wish Kosovo and all its citizens every success and all the best for the future. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Pöttering, by saying that the declaration of independence expresses the will of Kosovo's citizens to take control of their own destiny, is making a statement of historical importance.
Shame on us, Munichites! (PL) Mr President, in today's debate on the Serbian Province of Kosovo, I would like first of all to protest against the illegal actions of the Albanian authorities, which have been inspired by the United States.
The European Union is supporting the Albanian separatists and is deciding at the same time to set up a mission in Kosovo that is dubious in the light of international law, and in conflict with the UN position.
What happened on Monday in Brussels reminds me of the Munich Conference in 1938.
For the first time since 1945, in breach of international law, borders in Europe are being changed for ethnic reasons.
President, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 years of political and military confrontations, after 20 years of major errors in the Balkans, we ask ourselves whether the Kosovo solution, namely the unilateral declaration of independence of the Kosovo province, is legal and opportune.
It is not legal because no international law principle justifies the unilateral declaration of independence of the Kosovo province.
We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in this room, here, what we should do about Serbia.
There is 40% unemployment in Kosovo, and there is massive unemployment in Serbia as well.
Nine years have passed since the terrible bombing of Kosovo on the orders of Milošević's regime.
The people of Kosovo have a right to independence and in a way the events of the last nine years have contributed to the advent of this independence.
The European Union will have to support the Government of Kosovo in order to promote the economy of the country, because the rate of unemployment in Kosovo is at 40% and that must be rectified.
I also hope that it will become an example of the wishes of the European Union that people and communities can live in harmony. (EL) Mr President, the EU does not build states; it incorporates them.
The EU has sacrificed its internal consultation to the political strength of its Member States.
Article 11 of the Treaty on European Union stipulates as a precondition that that the Union shall act in conformity with the principles of the United Nations Charter, the Helsinki Final Act and the objectives of the Paris Charter, including those on external borders.
The point of the conclusions of the General Affairs and External Relations Council on the sui generis nature of the Kosovo situation is that the case in question has no precedent.
Finally, I should like to remind you that these principles constitute the hard core of international law on vested interests. (ES) Mr President, the debate is already at an advanced stage; I do not think that I can contribute a great deal to it, not even in terms of passion, but I do think we have to focus on the importance of international law and international commitments.
On 16 December 1991, EU Ministers adopted guidelines on the recognition of new States in Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union and affirmed respect for the inviolability of all borders and that borders could be changed only by peaceful means and by common agreement.
Secondly, the resolution under which there is currently a European presence in Kosovo - UN Security Council Resolution 1244 - specifically lays down that the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the other countries of the region must be respected.
With such an example, and by setting this example for the Cypriots, we are putting them in an unclear and ambiguous situation in which they will be unable to fight for the unity of their island.
It is the last link in a chain of failures: a failure to coexist, which resulted in the crisis in 1999, a failure by the parties and the international community itself to reach an agreed solution and a failure by the Security Council.
As Europeans we have a significant responsibility in this area: we were in the majority in the Contact Group, the UN Special Envoy and his team were Europeans, and it was the European Council which, in December, hastily decided to send a mission to Kosovo without legal basis.
Mr President, I am persuaded that the fact Kosovo was already a UN protectorate, that the solution is supported by the UN Secretary-General, and that negotiations had failed, all mean that Kosovo is a unique case in our world.
Paragraph 11a of UN Resolution 1244 makes clear that this is 'pending a final settlement'.
I accept that this is a test of credibility for the European Union, that any failure to respect the Serb population's rights in the new Kosovo would be a victory for ethnic cleansing in reverse, and that we should emphasise that Serbia, as well as Kosovo, will be equal partners as future members of our European Union.
It was united in its decision on the EULEX mission to help in the building-up of institutions and in political and economic development.
The European Commission has also set out measures to support the development of the wider region.
The extent to which the 2 000-strong force can guarantee safety and stability in the region is also in doubt.
The declaration of Kosovo's independence is now a fact.
Independent Kosovo's acceptance by Russia and China, who are on the UN Security Council, is very unlikely in the foreseeable future.
Curiously, although the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) has welcomed an independent Kosovo as a potential new member, Azerbaijan, although in the OIC, is wary over Nagorno-Karabakh claiming independence and refuses to recognise Kosovo.
Therefore, whatever the EU and the US are saying about this issue being sui generis, clearly not all the countries of the world agree.
Mr President, I would like to make two points.
Firstly, the most important thing is that the independence of Kosovo was proclaimed after supervision of the situation there by the international community for a number of years, and the international community, after long deliberations, could not find a better solution to the problem than the independence of Kosovo.
I salute the independence of Kosovo and wish the Kosovar people the best of luck in building their state.
Mr President, the difference between the external actions of the EU and other international actors is respect for international legality and UN decisions.
The international community must take note of it.
If this region is supposed to be peaceful and stable then the EU Member States must act as one and give their full support to this country's development, in accordance with Mr Martti Ahtisaari's plan.
Firstly, the fact that we are in this situation shows that we as the European Union were once again not in a position to hold our own between the two poles of Russia and the United States.
My second point is this: we must now do everything we can to establish minority and cultural rights in Kosovo.
One special remark to those worried about one-sided interpretations of international law, the integrity of states or the sovereignty of territories and peoples: we should understand and take into account the fact that a state which seeks to exterminate or expel all citizens belonging to a different ethnic population is killing not only them but, first of all, its own claim to sovereignty - sovereignty over mass graves.
Russia is different.
Russia has also been denied by its own actions of repeated genocide and has no more right to sovereignty over survivors in Chechnya but merely the medieval law of the fist.
The reality is that, by calling Kosovo a sui generis case, we are admitting that international law is either insufficient or inadequate and we are therefore finding a solution outside the law.
We must remind Kosovo that the path it now takes will inevitably influence its future relations with the European Union and that, therefore, we are willing to help them and we have an obligation - in our own interest, too - to hold out not one hand but both hands to Serbia and to say that we retain the firm conviction that Serbia's future is in Europe.
The European Union has obviously sent a special representative to Kosovo.
In addition to the mission about which the Council made a decision a few days ago, I would like to mention yesterday's visit to Priština by the Secretary-General and the High Representative, Javier Solana.
May I say that these debates have given me encouragement and I would like to thank you, Mr President, and the ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament for all these constructive comments.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I want to thank the House for a most responsible debate.
It was widely recognised today that the European Union has indeed left no stone unturned in seeking a negotiated solution, but this has unfortunately been in vain.
I would like to congratulate the Slovenian Presidency on this outcome, which reflects your profound commitment to the future of the Western Balkans in Europe.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) In central, eastern and south-eastern Europe those of us who were born in this less fortunate region of Europe have learned from experience that spoken words and paper promises have little credence.
In Kosovo the Ahtisaari Plan has succeeded in becoming an idea that can be realised beyond the promises, bringing calm to the region.
in writing. - (PT) The unilateral declaration of independence of the Serbian province of Kosovo is not inevitable.
That EU mission does not actually have any UN mandate.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, Finnish Councillor of State Harri Holkeri, who was acting as a negotiator in the Kosovo crisis a while ago, thought that the Albanians' quest for independence could not be ignored forever, as that would be a return not to a zero score but a lot less.
As many Members have said, Kosovo's independence was an inevitability.
The security of Kosovo and the west Balkans is above all a European issue.
It succeeded 50 years ago elsewhere in Europe - why not in the Balkans at long last?
in writing. - (EL) Eight years after NATO's war in Yugoslavia, the Kosovo problem not only remains unsolved, but also has become more intractable.
Nevertheless, the Bush Administration pushed the leadership of the Albanian Kosovars towards a unilateral declaration of independence, with all that this entails for peace and stability in the Balkans, as well as for other international issues.
By approving a new mission in the region, the EU is supporting this policy and is contributing to the violation of UN Resolution 1244 of 1999.
The unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence will cause a chain reaction of destabilisation in the Western Balkans and a negative precedent for many international issues.
in writing. - It is unfortunate that the European Union stands divided on the issue of Kosovo.
Peace and security in Kosovo ought to be a priority for the Union, since it neighbours the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, a candidate country to the EU, and we should play a leading role as a mediator between Serbia and Kosovo.
It will not be an easy task, when there is no agreement in the Union, whether to recognise the independence of Kosovo in corpore or not.
The Member States need to find a way through their differences in order to start carrying out our commitment to the region.
Those who are reluctant to acknowledge the situation perhaps have unfinished business with the minorities in their own country.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bid Kosovo a heartfelt welcome as one of the countries of Europe.
The most important thing now is to focus on building a stable civil society.
in writing. - (HU) Kosovo's declaration of independence is making big waves in our region.
At the same time, however, we have reason to expect that, based on the principle of 'territorial rights', Romania will deal with the situation of our national community in a European way, and ensure the personal autonomy of Hungarians (1) and the regional autonomy of Transylvania and other regions (2) on the basis of the principle of self-governance that applies in the European Union.
At the same time, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that Romania itself may also benefit from the new situation since the autonomy model of the Kosovan Serbs may also provide a solution for the Romanian communities living across the border in Serbia and Ukraine.
in writing. - (HU) I welcome the European Union's active participation and assumption of responsibility in looking for a solution for Kosovo.
Solidarity among the Member States of the EU in connection with Kosovo must manifest itself in the Member States recognising the independence of Kosovo as soon as possible.
The European Union must support Kosovo in its endeavours to become a European democratic state.
The European Union's assumption of responsibility in Kosovo is exemplary.
