&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 17&#160;November 2005. &#160;&#160; Before continuing with our agenda, I must make two statements relating to topical issues which require Parliament’s attention.
The first concerns the kidnaps in Iraq, which are still taking place continuously and which over recent days have involved five western citizens, which raises the number of foreigners currently held or classified as disappeared to forty.
The latest hostages include two of our fellow citizens: the German, Susanne Osthoff, a renowned archaeologist, who has been integrated into Iraqi society for ten years — and is not therefore a person who can in any way be linked to military operations — and who, since the beginning of the war, has been entirely committed to helping the Iraqi people.
Furthermore, the British man, Norman Kember, a member of a Canadian NGO, has been kidnapped together with three other humanitarian workers — two Canadians and an American.
The other statement relates to a much more global problem, because it affects not just two or forty people, but millions of human beings: tomorrow, 1 December, is World Aids Day.
I believe that the European Parliament must make every possible effort and exert its political influence in relation to this problem.
It was calculated in 2001 that 35 million people were infected with AIDS.
During this year it has been calculated that five million more people have been infected.
The pandemic is therefore spreading at a rhythm equivalent to 10% of accumulated stock.
Without proper nutrition, nothing can prevent the spread of AIDS nor cure the people carrying the disease.
I would therefore like, on behalf of the European Parliament, to thank the millions of volunteers throughout the world who are working to eradicate this plague.
I believe that we must all be aware of the scale of the drama and of the political effort necessary to deal with it. &#160;&#160; I would remind you that, on Monday 14 November, in Strasbourg, Parliament approved the agenda for this Brussels part-session.
The President does not want decisions to be taken in his initiative that do not correspond to the majority will of the House.
On this basis, I propose a series of amendments to the agenda for today and tomorrow which appear in a corrigendum that has been distributed to you; that will save me from having to read a long list of amendments.
I must simply add something else that does not appear in that corrigendum.
I ask that an addition be made to the agenda in the shape of a statement by the Commission on the decision by the Slovak Government to again place the police, in certain areas of their duties, under military jurisdiction, or of a statement following an inquiry into whether this decision by the Slovak Government is compatible with Title VI of the Treaty on European Union, which makes explicit provision for all citizens of the European Union to enjoy the freedom to organise themselves in trade unions and guarantees them the full exercise of their rights as members of one.
The consequence of this decision by the Slovak Government is that the police in Slovakia are to a large degree unable to exercise these rights.
However, Vice-President Frattini will be unable to take this item tomorrow as he must attend a meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
I refer to Rule 134, which deals with additions to the agenda, and I ask that one such be made in the shape of a statement by the Commission on the matter referred to earlier. &#160;&#160; I would like to urge my fellow Members to support this motion, which will hopefully encourage the Slovak Government and the Slovak Interior Ministry to reconsider the position taken by the Minister in respect of the fundamental values and rights of the European Union.
The Slovak Government has demoted the President of the Police Federation and has unilaterally declared that it no longer recognises this body as a negotiating partner.
It has also threatened disciplinary measures against police officers that participate in any kind of protest in pursuit of better living or working conditions.
Ladies and gentlemen, President Borrell, the Slovak Republic joined the European Union in 2004 also because it perceives the European Union as a guarantor of fundamental rights and values.
I am very proud of Slovakia’s achievements over the last seven years under Prime Minister Mikuláš Dzurinda, which include a strong democracy, more transparency and the adoption of reforms that currently make us a European economic tiger.
Yes, there is room for improvement, but the problem in the area at stake here is simply non-existent.
Therefore, I would kindly ask all my honourable colleagues to vote against this change to the agenda of this House.
Let us focus our attention and our energy on far more burning issues where we could all be a lot more useful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, perhaps – and I am sure this is what Mr Watson would have said – we might come back to the Commissioner’s suggestion of the next part-session in December.
I cannot now get into a conciliation procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am speaking under Rule 134.
The agenda does not include a resolution closing the debate on the oral question about criminal penalties in the field of the environment.
When the Court of Justice of the European Communities is giving the Community legislators new responsibilities which the Commission and the Council are beginning to take very seriously, it is rather surprising to find that Parliament has nothing to say or is reserving its position.
In view of this – and we are getting clear messages on the matter from the political groups – in order to guide the work in the Parliamentary committees on the dossiers in hand and also to initiate a dialogue with the Council in January, we really should as a matter of urgency, Mr President, amend the agenda to allow such a resolution to be tabled.
We take note of your suggestion and the political groups will take it into account when they draw up the agenda for January.
I should like to make some introductory remarks on the preparations for the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong next month, before handing the floor to Commissioner Mandelson who is spearheading the negotiations on behalf of the European Union.
The Members of the European Parliament know that this is a crucial time for the world trading system.
The Doha development agenda, launched in Qatar in 2001, is an ambitious agenda.
There are few more important issues than the need to reach a consensus on trade liberalisation that will be good not just for development in the world’s poorest and most vulnerable countries, but also for our businesses here in the European Union.
The DDA provides a real opportunity to improve terms of trade across the world and to demonstrate practically that 149&#160;countries can work together for the common good.
A successful DDA will help underpin the status of the WTO as a multilateral institution and help underpin the multilateral trading system.
That has to be good for all member countries.
This is an important issue, and it will be important at Hong Kong that we reach agreement on an interim package of measures for developing countries, as proposed by Commissioner Mandelson.
In particular, the EU would like to see WTO members endorse strong special and differential treatment to give developing countries the flexibility to make their own development choices; agree a package of measures for developing countries related to implementing the Uruguay Round; agree to provide complete market access for all least-developed countries to all developed country markets, as the EU has already offered; agree to eliminate all forms of export subsidy; agree that LDCs should not be forced to open their markets in these negotiations; and agree to take strong action on commodities of special importance to poor countries, address the issue of preference erosion and simplify the rules applied to exports from least-developed countries.
Commissioner Mandelson will obviously go into these in a lot more detail, so I will simply say that, on agriculture, we have a chance in Hong Kong to tackle distortions in the market that work against the poorest countries.
Developing countries would benefit from the eradication of trade-distorting export practices and the reduction of domestic subsidies that can undermine otherwise competitive production in these poor countries.
We are all aware that the idea of increased agricultural imports into the EU, particularly for the larger emerging economies, is liable to raise concerns in some Member States and I certainly do not under-estimate those concerns.
For in Europe we spend over 40% of our budget on agriculture to support around 5% of our workforce and only 2% of EU&#160;GDP.
Meanwhile, in many sub-Saharan economies, agriculture accounts for more than half the workforce and for more than half of GDP.
The effects on poorer countries of the developed world’s agricultural policies are unsustainable and need to be changed.
If we cut all trade barriers by half we could raise the annual income of developing countries by more than EUR&#160;110&#160;billion – three times the value of all aid budgets put together.
The EU could gain EUR&#160;20&#160;billion per year from NAMA alone.
So the potential wins from agriculture and NAMA are clear, but it is important that the potential long-term benefits from services liberalisation and trade facilitation, resulting in greater real market access, are also given equal weight in the negotiations.
That is something that the Commission and Commissioner Mandelson have been pressing for very strongly on our behalf, because services make up 70% of world output, but only 20% of world trade.
We all agree that we need to find an effective way of making progress on services.
It impedes growth, stifles competition and innovation and, in many instances, is just plainly unfair.
Those concerns are often over the impact of liberalisation on specific communities that are heavily reliant on particular industries.
Whilst the benefits of trade liberalisation are global, we need to recognise that change can be both local and profound in nature.
However, this is also why we need to work hard to ensure that poor countries get the support they need to adjust and take advantage of new trading opportunities.
With the other developed countries we must build on Commission President Barroso’s pledge earlier this year to increase aid for trade to EUR&#160;1&#160;billion a year and enhance further trade-related assistance, including investment in infrastructure within growing aid budgets.
We are therefore in an excellent position to encourage others to join us in a significant and effective initiative.
In conclusion, Hong Kong presents us with an opportunity to make significant progress in increasing global trade flows, but we also have an opportunity to ensure that the world trading system is fairer and spreads the benefit of trading more widely.
That is what the Council, working with the Commission and Mr Mandelson, who is leading the negotiations on the EU’s behalf in consultation with the European Parliament, is seeking to achieve. &#160;&#160; .
The reason we have not achieved this is simply that after we agreed on the framework agreement in July 2004, the talks were simply becalmed.
The EU responded within the same month with our own agriculture market access offer.
We have moved the round forward in agriculture, not just once, but three times in the last eighteen months.
The best way to promote development is to open new trading opportunities to developing countries and then help them with aid to exploit those opportunities.
The biggest obstacles to this trade are the tariffs on industrial goods that exist between developing countries.
The Commission has set an example with the EUR&#160;1&#160;billion per year pledge made by President Barroso at the G8.
Let me turn now to other aspects of the negotiations.
On 28&#160;October, the EU put a comprehensive negotiating offer on the table, including on agricultural market access.
This created a much-needed opportunity to move the whole round forward.
It was a necessary and right thing to do, as it allowed us to have the first real negotiations at the political level on industrial goods and services, anti-dumping rules and development.
I deeply regret that, rather than seizing this opportunity and building on it, our negotiating partners decided to take the easy way out, rejecting our offer on agriculture and criticising it – often in immoderate terms – rather than engaging with it and enabling us to move forward.
Let us be clear about the value of our offer on agriculture.
It has to be seen as a whole, not just in terms of the tariff reductions that we are tabling, but including our major contributions on reducing domestic support through CAP reform and our offer to eliminate export subsidies altogether.
Under our proposal, our average agricultural tariff will fall from 23% to 12%, which incidentally is the same as the current US level.
Taken as a whole, this is the most substantial offer ever made by the European Union in any trade round.
It will create significant opportunities for agricultural exporters without wiping out preferential access for poor developing countries or doing excessive damage to our own agricultural sector in Europe.
What is more, this is a round for developing countries, notably the poor and needy ones, and not just for competitive agricultural producers who should not seek, in my view, to maximise their own competitive advantage in world markets at the expense of other developing countries in the WTO.
We saw last week with sugar how sensitive the problem of preference erosion for needy ACP countries is.
It behoves us all, not just in Europe but in the WTO membership as a whole, to take this fully into account.
This is not justified and would further unbalance the negotiations.
Governments and citizens in Europe need to believe that structural change and possible job losses in agriculture will be balanced by the creation of new jobs and new opportunities in other sectors.
That is why our negotiating objectives on non-agricultural market access, on industrial goods and services are so important.
This means cutting industrial tariffs as they actually applied, not only lowering bound levels agreed 12&#160;years ago in the Uruguay Round.
This, after all, will be the effect of our proposals in agriculture because, unlike many developing countries, our bound and applied tariffs are usually the same.
Nor do we expect other developing countries to match the level of market opening by developed countries.
But they must do something.
That is the principle of this round.
This reflects the importance of services in the modern world economy.
It is important not just to us but to developing countries as well.
These countries must clearly remain free in services to pursue national policy objectives and fully to safeguard their national right to regulate.
I will pursue Europe’s interests and I will maintain the ambition of the round as a whole, building consensus whenever and wherever it is possible to do so with our negotiating partners.
They must stop hiding behind unfounded criticism of the European Union; stop hiding behind patently unrealistic and tactical demands, and join in a real negotiation on all the issues.
If they continue merely to ask for more from Europe without paying into the pot themselves, they – not we – risk destroying this round.
The possibility still exists, the need is as urgent now as it was when we began the round.
Everyone must now pull together to make it happen and achieve the objectives that we first set out for ourselves when we agreed the Doha Charter all those years ago. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, no one can doubt the important potential benefits which will accrue from the successful completion of the current round, benefits both for developed and for developing countries.
We are talking about economic, social, environmental and, above all, development benefits.
It is precisely these benefits which require us to abide by our high aspirations for the Doha development agenda.
The definition of less ambitious and realistic objectives must relate solely to the Hong Kong conference and not to the Doha round overall.
The declaration to be adopted at the Ministerial Conference will need, on the one hand, to freeze the progress already made in individual sectors and, on the other hand, to set clear objectives for ongoing negotiations.
It will also need to safeguard specific, tangible results in the sector of trade and development.
We expect our partners to make similar concessions and to pursue the necessary flexibility which will allow the balanced progress needed to be made in the individual sectors of the Doha agenda.
The safeguarding of a balanced and ambitious result in all the basic sectors of the Doha development programme is – and rightly so – the core of the Union's negotiating strategy.
I refer mainly to the sectors of services, industrial products, the facilitation of trade and the protection of industrial and intellectual property.
The European Union, as the biggest trading power in the world, as the supreme factor in world trade diplomacy, is being called on to respond to the challenge of the Doha round, of this development round, to play a material role as far as Hong Kong and beyond.
This is our mandate; the mandate of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as formulated here seven months ago, in good time, in the text of positions adopted by the European People's Party.
This mandate is also set out in the motion for a resolution which we are debating.
I wish you and every success, Mr Mandelson. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we are on the eve of a WTO conference that was supposed to see a real step forward in the implementation of the Doha development agenda, which was adopted in 2001 and was to enable the trade rules to be put at the service of development.
As you have just said, Commissioner, it is unfortunately now clear that the Hong Kong conference will not bring the results hoped for in the main areas of negotiation.
The progress made following the framework agreement concluded at the WTO on 1 August 2004 has been insufficient, and sometimes almost invisible.
A lot of precious time has been lost and the sights for the Hong Kong meeting have now been lowered with the real decisions postponed to a later conference in 2006.
Any reduction in the developed countries’ commitments concerning the implementation of the Doha agenda would bring a substantial reduction in the possible gains for the developing countries.
As you know, Commissioner, the World Bank has produced a study showing that, if the likely scenario based on the United States’ and the European Union’s present proposals comes about, the main beneficiaries of the Doha Round, as with previous rounds, will again be the major trading powers, the developed countries, while the developing countries will gain by less than 0.2 euro centimes per capita per day; that would cut the number of poor people in the world by scarcely 1%.
I also believe that insisting that the developing countries make reciprocal commitments in exchange for the efforts made by the developed countries, in terms of opening their markets in particular, is likely to result in deadlock and from that point of view we must not forget what happened in Cancún.
It is therefore essential that the Doha Round is a success.
If that is to be the case, the rules and agreements negotiated in Hong Kong must make for a more equitable sharing of the benefits of globalisation; they must take better account of the different levels of development; they must offer improved market access for the developing countries without forcing them to open their own markets at any price, and on this subject I support the Council’s vision, which seems to me to be slightly different from the Commission’s; they must not weaken the most sensitive economic sectors, nascent industries, but instead contribute to economic diversification; they must recognise the right of the developing countries to control the rate of their commercial opening and their national development strategies.
For example, our Group has tabled an amendment seeking a commitment, with a timetable, to abolish export subsidies by 2010.
We must accept the maintenance of a certain level of protection for the developing countries in the industrial field.
When it comes to services, we want the European Union’s demands concerning market access for service providers to preserve the rights of all WTO member countries, especially the developing countries, to regulate their services, their public services in particular.
We want health, education and audiovisual services to be clearly excluded from the talks, and we do not want public services such as water and energy to be dismantled or weakened in the GATS negotiations.
Finally, there really is a need for a financial facility to underpin technical assistance and the strengthening of the poor countries’ capacities.
Finally, our Group believes that sensitive issues like social and environmental questions cannot be kept out of the WTO talks.
The main stumbling block remains, without a doubt, the agricultural dossier.
Since Europe will not make concessions unless other large countries make more concessions, we find ourselves in a total stalemate.
There is a considerable risk that any fresh in Hong Kong will completely undermine the World Trade Organisation, because trade blocs will look for, and seize, opportunities to enhance their market access by such means as bilateral and regional trade agreements.
This scenario is best avoided if possible, because whilst the poorest countries are at risk of becoming the victim in this, the significance of the WTO, that has, after all, contributed to more economic growth, more development and more jobs over the past 50 years, cannot, and should not, be underestimated, even if this organisation needs, as a matter of urgency, reform in order to bring about more transparency, more efficiency and, above all, more democratic control.
Commissioner, we want to strengthen your negotiation mandate and your negotiation position by means of the resolution that is before us and on which we will be voting tomorrow.
Whichever way, we in Europe must remain the driving force behind the multilateral trade negotiations.
Alan Johnson, a UK Trade Minister and representative of the UK Presidency, said just a few weeks ago that developing countries must not be forced to open up their markets.
On non-agriculture market access the Commission is demanding far-reaching liberalisation that will threaten the very survival of local manufacturing in some developing countries.
There is supreme irony, Commissioner Mandelson, in your being quoted in the newspapers today as saying that one voice which has not been heard in these negotiations so far is the voice of the poor, when the European Union is itself guilty of ignoring precisely that voice: the voice of African countries and other ACP countries, for example, which have all said they do not want a new benchmarking formula in the services sector.
The EU is failing to listen to developing countries and is pursuing its own business agenda with extraordinary arrogance.
A resolution has been tabled by the three larger political groups and I want to explain why our group is unable to sign it.
On services, the resolution demands an ambitious agreement with no rejection of the new benchmarking formula, and no clear exclusion of basic services such as water.
On NAMA, there is a demand for rapid acceleration of negotiations on the basis of an extreme formula which most developing countries have already rejected.
Most important of all, however, is the pressing fact that four years into the DDA, the agenda is not delivering for the poor of the world.
It is not therefore too late for the 25 to seriously revise their negotiator’s mandate, which for the most part dates back to 1999, that is before the double failure of Seattle and Cancún.
My Group is therefore pleased to submit to you ten proposals for closely linked new priorities, which I will call the ten commandments of an alternative view of Europe’s ambition on the international stage.
Firstly, given that tomorrow is World Aids Day, I will mention the requirement to find a definitive solution to the problem of access to medicines in countries that have no pharmaceutical production capacity.
The persistent blockages, in the name of intellectual and industrial property, are criminal and unacceptable in this respect.
One after another, Europe has sacrificed all the gains of Lomé on the altar of the WTO –Stabex, Sysmin, the banana agreement, the sugar protocol – in order to get free-trade agreements signed, with the bonus of the introduction of visas for nationals of the countries we used to call our privileged partners.
We are in favour of defending genuine European small farming, the right to guaranteed remunerative prices, the principle of food sovereignty, respect for the social, environmental and territorial multifunctionality of agriculture.
The time I am allowed obliges me to mention our other priorities very briefly.
Four, the WTO must prohibit the patenting of living things and protect local communities’ biological resources and technological knowledge against biopiracy.
Seven, employment and training in all parts of the world must become objectives in their own right towards which economic agreements must work; this is the opposite of the liberalisation that is destabilising whole sections of industry and services.
Finally, ten, the WTO must be incorporated into the United Nations system with a hierarchy of international law standards giving primacy to fundamental rights and in particular to international conventions on the rules of international trade.
That may be true of Hong Kong, but not in Ireland, where a sugar industry that supported 3&#160;500 families has just been wiped out.
That brings us to the question of what their best is.
In the case of Ireland this means wiping out the sugar industry and making way for corporate farmers from other countries.
That will help create trade diversification in our manufacturing and service economy base and stimulate economic growth to the benefit of European businesses and consumers alike.
However, the Doha Round cannot simply be about what the EU is willing to concede on agriculture.
Other World Trade Organization partners must also be willing to make a success of this round, not only in the area of agriculture, but also in the industrial services and trade facilitation areas of the negotiations.
The non-agricultural industrial market access negotiations must deliver tariff reductions for all products.
The bottom line is that the Doha Round should ensure that average industrial tariffs outside the EU fall to less than 10%.
With regard to the reform of the EU agricultural system, Commissioner Mandelson has succeeded in the negotiating mandate given to him by the EU governments.
He has already offered an average cut of 46%, which will apply to import tariffs, although there was a clear understanding that the 1999 and 2003 CAP reforms were in preparation for cuts of 36%.
The real beneficiaries will be the big beef barons of South America and elsewhere. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is pleasant to renew acquaintance in this forum with Mr Pearson, who served with effect for some time in Northern Ireland, as did Commissioner Mandelson.
We in this House are treated more as observers than actors, but we care for the welfare of our citizens as well as for poor people elsewhere.
Although the predominant idea guiding this process is that of helping the least developed countries of the world, it is also our responsibility to consider the status and development of poorer and weaker new Member States of the EU.
The case of sugar has provided an example of an unjust trade agreement that attributes more export freedom to French and German sugar producers than to Polish farmers.
Therefore, balanced decisions on making the market a free stage are needed, with a distinction being drawn between the least developed countries, developing countries or emerging economies, and the developed countries.
My other point relates to prospective new members.
Otherwise, international trade is liable to be shaken by events such as the current issue of Russian import barriers on agricultural products from Poland.
The belief that the free market is a magic wand that can equalise living standards across the globe needs to be tempered with an awareness of the specific economic and social conditions and political barriers that exist in many countries.
I would like to see the free market making the people richer, and I stress ‘the people’, not trade and manufacturing consortia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, there are just a few points I would like to address, but, before I do so, I would like to congratulate you on having put before us such a sound negotiating package.
Commissioner Mandelson pointed out that the United States’ agriculture offer was very late in coming, but we also know that the emerging economies will still, in the field of services and also of the liberalisation of industrial goods, need to give indications of coming up with a reasonable package to which we can agree.
Listening to some Members in this House, one feels that we do not actually have any interests of our own, but that the only thing that matters is safeguarding the interests of other countries.
Let us never forget how much the European Union is already doing and how great is its contribution to greater fairness for them.
We now have to deal with emerging economies that are aware of their own power, that are global players in economic, social and political terms and want to do what they have to do and play their part.
If we fail to achieve a positive outcome, or at least a favourable indication as to what further negotiations will be like, more bilateral agreements will be needed, and we will see multilateral negotiations falling apart – which, I trust, is not what we want.
Firstly, I hope that we will take the same approach as we did to previous rounds of negotiations; that we will have talks with the Commission, with the two Commissioners dealing with these matters, and with Commissioner Mandelson in particular, but, of course, also with the Council.
In the event of any conflict and of you being required to negotiate outside the framework set by the mandate, it would be right for you, Commissioner, to enter into dialogue not only with the Council, but also with the delegation of this House that will be there with you.
Secondly, the European Union will, as it does on every such occasion, be joining with the Inter-Parliamentary Union in holding a separate conference with members from all the various WTO member states present.
I would be delighted if you were, this time, to succeed – with the Council’s support, of course – in getting a statement to this effect incorporated in the WTO’s final statement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 12&#160;days’ time our leaders meet in Hong Kong to debate the Doha Development Agenda and face the single biggest opportunity to achieve the 2015 Millennium Development Goals.
They are angry – and rightly so – about unfair trade rules that work against those living in poverty and they are passionate about the need for change.
We are witnessing, yet again, the historic struggle between free trade and protectionism.
Initiatives like duty- and quota-free access for LDCs, special and differential treatment, and aid for trade cannot be held up in an agricultural silo by more advanced developing countries, especially when the offer on the table is the most substantive ever made by the EU.
When talking about agriculture, it has to be clear to us that the European Union is the largest importer of food and feeding stuffs and that we, when obtaining agricultural products from the countries of the developing world, have to pay prices at our levels for them if these countries’ economies are to develop.
What we need is a new international legal hierarchy to create a balanced relationship between trading interests on the one hand and human social rights, together with environmental and consumer protection standards, on the other.
If countries, and their peoples, reject the production and import of genetically modified organisms or meat containing hormones, then that is a decision that the WTO will have to accept; no trade regulation of any kind whatsoever must interfere with their sovereign right to take it.
Rather than simply doing away with existing market regulation mechanisms, as happened with sugar and bananas, thereby driving prices right down, the Commission should put forward new public initiatives that would help stabilise the prices of raw materials.
As Pascal Lamy has said, the US proposal was five times as ambitious as the EU’s response.
I firmly believe that if there was an independent British voice – and I am talking here about the world’s third largest trading nation – at the WTO next month, it could actually speak up for the Third World.
I hope Mr Blair crowns his Presidency by pulling Britain out of the common commercial policy and going in next month himself to speak at the WTO. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission needs to show its courage in Hong Kong, starting with the Chinese emergency.
China has flooded the European market with seemingly low-cost products which in fact come with a very high price tag.
What is more, all too often these goods are counterfeit, and so give rise to a huge market financing criminal organisations, in addition to directly damaging European companies and undermining their long tradition of professionalism.
In view of the World Trade Organisation Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong, we ask the Commission to insist that social and environmental clauses be introduced to prevent unfair competition from China, especially clauses which prevent social and environmental dumping, protect workers and the environment and actually place the safeguarding of rights above the movement of goods.
Europe has to try to promote a social dimension within globalisation, whilst simultaneously fighting to protect European businesses. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the world is currently experiencing the irreversible globalisation of many aspects of life.
If the EU agricultural sector, which is most vulnerable in the new Member States, is to be sacrificed, then developing countries should at least be the ones to benefit.
Rich countries should not profit from any sacrifice of Polish agriculture and Polish sugar. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of this Parliament’s delegation that will go to Hong Kong for the next meeting of the WTO, I fully support the common resolution that we are presenting and that we will vote on tomorrow.
Since the creation of a parliamentary Committee on External Trade in 1979, this Parliament has followed the negotiations in the WTO closely, sending delegations since 1988, particularly now that we have a specific Committee on International Trade.
The European Parliament thereby enhances the role that the European Union plays within the context of globalisation, at the same time making an effort to increase the transparency of the activities of that Organisation.
Since the failures of Seattle and Cancún, it is now that the role of the WTO is at stake.
We must therefore all make a genuine effort to ensure that our offers are balanced.
The European Commission has proposed a package in the field of agriculture which represents a great effort for the Union and probably much more for certain Member States.
It will not, however, be possible to conclude these negotiations successfully without making progress on access to the markets for industrial products and the trade in services.
I would like to end, Commissioner, simply by wishing you every success in your work for the good of everybody. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to inform the President-in-Office and the Commissioner that I was very interested to read a paragraph in the conclusions adopted by the General Affairs Council last week that stated that there was strong commitment to the needs of developing countries, and in particular the LDCs, and that the Council supported an ambitious development programme in Hong Kong.
When you say these things in the Council, how can you simultaneously do the opposite?
At that Council meeting, Commissioner Fischer Boel said she felt that this reform was going to strengthen her hand.
This morning Commissioner Mandelson and I were at a G90 meeting, where we heard the grievances of the ACP countries in particular.
If Commissioner Fischer Boel thinks that she has strengthened her hand to negotiate with developing countries after the decision that was taken on sugar last week, then I do not know exactly what planet she is living on.
What we felt at the G90 meeting this morning – and Commissioner Mandelson will confirm this – was a terrific sense of anger and, indeed, of betrayal.
This stage of the negotiations requires the improvement of WTO rules in the areas of freedom of transit, duties and formalities in connection with export and import as well as publication and administration of trade regulations.
Discussions on trade liberalisation should involve the issue of equal trade conditions for all countries.
These are the two main points of departure.
Agriculture is the weak point in this resolution, however.
It is in these countries that half of the world’s poorest people live, and it is unacceptable to say that these countries do not belong to the poor part of the world. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, the most important contribution that the EU can make in the run-up to the meeting in Hong&#160;Kong is to commit itself to eliminating its agricultural export subsidies.
At first glance, the offers tabled by the EU regarding agricultural policy seem fairly constructive but, if one reads the small print, it becomes clear that the EU’s offer contains a good deal of hot air.
The worst mistake the EU can make ahead of, and during, the negotiations in Hong&#160;Kong is to make agricultural reforms conditional on developing countries opening up their services sectors.
The developing countries will also be among the losers, even though the Doha round is meant to be a development round intended to reduce poverty and deprivation in developing countries.
After all, Europe does want market access for its industry and services to be properly regulated.
In Hong Kong, all negotiators must show the political will to make progress; after all, a failed trade round only has losers. &#160;&#160; I support wholeheartedly the efforts of the Council and the Commission to promote the liberalisation of world trade.
This is a key requirement for growth in economic efficiency and competitiveness, as well as for the overall economic growth that is so often talked about.
Europe and the world cannot afford any other outcome.
Both consumers and farmers in Europe deserve access to a global market, and we need the pressure for change brought by liberalisation in order to enhance our competitiveness.
The agriculture negotiations are also – or perhaps chiefly – a moral issue, because they are the prerequisite for development in many poor countries.
That is why it is a great shame that these very negotiations are standing in the way of progress in the negotiations both on industrial products and on the trade in services, which is so important to Europe.
All those who argue that Commissioner Mandelson has already gone too far and who think that we cannot liberalise agriculture any further must realise that their policies come at a high price and that Europe – the world’s leading trading power - will pay dearly for failure to obtain new market access.
We must remember that it is not agriculture but the services sector that currently accounts for 70% of growth in Europe.
It is rather paradoxical that the country that refuses to offer any more in the negotiations on either agriculture or services is the one that currently has the largest global players in that very services sector.
We must give them the same right to low tariffs and prices as consumers have here in Europe.
If we succeed in agreeing on substantial trade liberalisation, European consumers will feel the difference in their pockets.
If we do not succeed, it will be a matter of life and death. &#160;&#160; Madam President, as this debate is drawing to a close I would simply like to make a comment, mainly to the Commissioner, and draw a conclusion from it.
That is the message I wanted to pass on to you this afternoon. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, the EU has been pursuing an unfair trade policy for many years.
It is time we paid attention to the needs of developing countries and discontinued our selfish trade policy.
We would hear them saying that our agricultural reforms are minor and that they think we are wrong to impose requirements for opening up trade in services.
When the European Community agreed the Fischler reform of the common agricultural policy, however, our farmers were told that the reform was necessary to present them at the negotiations at the Doha Round in a way that was credible and justifiable to the international community.
The strain placed upon our farmers by this reform and the effects this reform has had have still not stabilised.
Despite all this the Commission, rather than highlighting to our partners how much the farmers have already suffered, is proposing a new negotiating position which throws the CAP into question and forces our farmers to make further destabilising sacrifices, that is to say yet another variable they cannot sustain.
In order to ensure greater access to the market the Commission is proposing reductions in tariffs which expose our producers to unsustainable competition from imported products.
We cannot commit ourselves to abolishing our support for exports until a similar commitment is made by those countries which, even through different mechanisms, still support their own exports. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: with regard to globalisation, President Ricardo Lagos recently told this very House that in the end the multilateral becomes local policy.
The results achieved in Hong Kong will in the end have a local effect and will directly affect the daily lives of the citizens, both in the Union and in the rest of the world.
The Round must continue to focus on development, but, Commissioner, we must also defend the interests of our own citizens.
This is why we in this House continue to support the Union’s objective and the strategy of the Commission.
Time is at a premium: the Round should end in 2006 so that it can pass through the fast track of the United States Congress as soon as possible.
The European Union cannot sacrifice agriculture for the sake of WTO negotiations, and that the European Union has already done a lot for developing countries – for instance, 85% of African food exports arrive in the European Union.
However, we must also add that the European Union must have an active approach to agricultural negotiations too, because it cannot restrict itself to a defensive position.
We must try to ensure that regulations concerning animal welfare, environmental protection and geographical origin protection are built into the WTO agricultural trade regulation system, as this is in the interest of both European farmers and European consumers.
The Doha Round is a development round, and it would be unacceptable if the results were to benefit only those Member States with the most developed industry, and the less developed, poorer Member States relying mostly on agricultural activities would suffer, meaning that the rich would become richer and the poor would become poorer.
The worst-case scenario for all concerned is that we come back from Hong Kong with the message that nothing has been achieved and that everything will continue in the same old way.
I am pleased to see that Members of the European Parliament are so engaged in these important issues.
We should be supporting the package of measures for developing countries outlined by Commissioner Mandelson and this must be seen as a down-payment with more to come, not a final deal.
As Commissioner Mandelson said, the benefits in terms of services and NAMA if we achieve a balanced outcome to the round will be of benefit to the EU economy and indeed the world economy as a whole.
Commissioner Mandelson has made a serious offer that requires serious consideration by other countries.
There are very many different sorts, sizes and states of development in developing countries, as I am finding out.
I am grateful to Bob Geldof for giving out my email address, which has now clocked up something approaching 100&#160;000 messages from members of the public wishing me well at Hong Kong.
I greatly welcome and value the joint parliamentary resolution on the Doha Round which has been put together.
On export competition the United States is very ambitious: very ambitious with our export subsidies, not quite so ambitious when it comes to its own export credits and its own food aid.
The Uruguay Round made limited inroads into agricultural protection.
But let us not overlook the fact that the biggest welfare gains for all developing countries will come from liberalisation, not of agriculture, but in industrial goods, which account for 75% of developing countries’ trade and most of the tariffs that they pay.
Of course agricultural liberalisation will benefit some developing countries.
The highly competitive agricultural exporters in the developing world, like Brazil and Argentina, are the developing countries that will be the chief beneficiaries.
But the biggest winners in most agricultural liberalisation scenarios would be in the developed world, not the developing world, including large agricultural exporters such as Australia and New Zealand.
Let me just make two last points about non-agricultural market access and services.
There is indeed a virtual EUR&#160;40&#160;million offer on the table and I was not right in saying, as I had been advised this morning, that this figure had been agreed with ACP countries.
There is certainly a marked imbalance between what is on offer in the sugar action programme to ACP countries and what we are offering to our domestic sugar producers.
In conclusion, as far as our transparency with the European Parliament in Hong Kong is concerned, we will keep in close touch with the European Parliament Members who are there.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; – Mr Mandelson, who is leading the ‘Doha Round’ talks at the World Trade Organisation on behalf of the Council and the Commission, has succeeded in keeping his ambitions to liberalise international trade intact, in spite of the lowering of expectations regarding the conclusions of the Hong Kong summit.
The ambitions that he expresses – or rather, those laid down in the negotiating mandate – are identical to those that the captains of industry trotted out yet again in their statement of 21&#160;November, which called for greater liberalisation in agriculture and in access to the market for industrial products and services, and offered guarantees that the round of talks will be concluded by the end of 2006.
What they are looking to do is to control international trade within the framework of capitalist competition, in such a way that the large economic and financial groups would be in control of a country’s economy, its agriculture, its industrial production, its services and its natural resources.
It is a great pleasure to be present here at the European Parliament, and to speak to you as the representative of the UK Presidency and on behalf of the Council, on this important subject.
This year, for example, I and my colleagues have so far received over 100 letters from UK Members of Parliament about the human rights situation in Vietnam alone and it is an issue that is debated on a regular basis within the UK Parliament.
We have a duty to respond to this concern.
Human rights must be an important feature of the European Union's relations with those countries.
The Council shares honourable Members' concerns over the current political and human rights situation in Cambodia, and is following the situation closely.
I appreciate that you also share that concern, judging from your resolution on Cambodia in March and the briefing Sam Rainsy, the Cambodian opposition leader, delivered to the public hearing here on 12 September.
The Council has expressed its concern over this issue several times recently; for example, on 15 February, over the suspension of the Parliamentary immunity of three members of the opposition; and again on 19 August over the jail sentences imposed on members of the Sam Rainsy Party.
We are particularly concerned over the situation of Cheam Channy, who is in prison; the EU Troika raised its concerns over his case directly with the Government of Cambodia most recently on 11 November, during a demarche over freedom of expression.
We again share honourable Members' concern in particular over freedom of religion, freedom of expression, and the situation of the Hmong people.
The Council's relations with Vietnam are more substantial; and here too we work hard to ensure proper priority is given in our relationship to the issue of human rights.
The EU maintains a list of prisoners and detainees of concern, and takes every opportunity to raise the issue of detention and treatment of people on the list.
We also welcome Vietnam's agreement for the EU to visit two individuals on the list – Thich Quang Do and Than Van Truong – so that we can assess their situation.
The Council regrets, though, that none of those on the EU's list imprisoned in violation of their right to freedom of expression have been released so far.
We welcome the 2004 Ordinance on Belief and Religion and this year's Prime Minister's Instructions on Protestantism as modest steps forward.
To conclude, the Council shares honourable Members' concern over the human rights situation in Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam.
The conditions in prisons are particularly harsh and a smaller number of prisoners of conscience are still in prison, for example, the remaining four leaders of the 26&#160;October 1999 movement.
On the other hand, in the last two years and in particular during 2005, the situation has improved.
However, there are a number of insurgent groups consisting of between 1000 and 3000 people and composed mainly of monks which continue to oppose the Laos Government.
Regarding these groups, the situation has improved significantly during the last month following direct negotiations between the Laos army and insurgent groups.
As regards Vietnam, restrictions on the six recognised religious organisations and the lack of religious freedom for non-recognised groups continue to be a major concern.
The situation is particularly difficult for ethnic minority Protestants in the central highlands and northern uplands and for non-recognised Buddhists, Hoa Hao and Cao Dai organisations.
In the case of Cambodia, the trends as regards human rights and democracy are more worrying.
Recent events like the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of three members of the opposition Sam Rainsy Party and the sentencing of two Sam Rainsy Party members undoubtedly raise scepticism about the commitment of the two parties in power in the coalition government to a genuinely pluralistic democratic system.
As honourable Members might be aware, a strong EU declaration has been issued on this subject and I can assure you that EU concerns have been brought to the personal attention of the Prime Minister by the local representative of the European Union Presidency.
These trends are very serious and deserve our full attention.
The Commission, together with representatives of the European Union Member States, will therefore continue to monitor the situation very closely and remain ready to take further action should the situation deteriorate further.
On a general level, the Commission raises human rights concerns regularly and consistently with Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam.
This is done through ad hoc EU troika demarches and in political and expert level meetings, including the joint committees which are established under the European Community Agreements with these countries.
In Vietnam and Laos, specific working groups on cooperation in the areas of institutional strengthening, administrative reform, governance and human rights have been established under the cooperation agreements.
The Commission is of the view that the ongoing dialogue and cooperation at a number of levels and in various fora have proven to be conducive in building confidence and engaging the three countries on sensitive human rights issues.
It allows the Commission to channel EU concerns directly to the authorities in an open and constructive atmosphere, putting steady pressure on them to be more transparent and more accountable in human rights policies.
At the same time as the Communist government cries ‘poor’ and seeks EU aid, its embassy in Canberra, for instance, allegedly spent almost one million Australian dollars celebrating 60&#160;years of communist tyranny.
Police and the military have destroyed ten houses of Catholics in Quang Ngai Province.
People in the Central Highlands are suffering badly as well as the Catholic Hmong people and the Mennonite followers in the country.
In Laos, members of the Student Democracy Movement have been in jail since 1999.
The Commission has committed itself to continuing to work with full respect for human rights in the case of these three countries.
In these three countries we are faced with three different situations, but in all three cases we can say that there has been less progress than we would have liked in terms of civil freedoms and rights.
In Cambodia, despite the fact that there has been some progress, we are still very far from being able to talk about political freedoms, particularly in the case of women and girls, who are victims of sexual trafficking, sexual tourism and of one of the most abject situations of slavery that any woman or girl can experience.
This Parliament’s Human Rights Sub-Committee has worked hard to highlight the situation of these three countries and I believe that it is very important that any improvements or deterioration of the situation be communicated to this Parliament.
Sam Rainsy has since lived in exile in France and Chea Poch has also escaped the country.
Cheam Channy was arrested on that same day by military police.
Recent arrests, not only of politicians, but also of journalists, trade union leaders and other members of civil society, bear witness to a worsening situation in terms of civil and political freedoms in that country.
A country in which an opposition party is thwarted in its activities to this extent must be called to account in respect of its responsibilities.
It is also positive that in November 2004, Vietnam provided the facilities for an EU seminar on the death penalty.
Nevertheless, in 2004, at least 82 people were executed and 115 sentenced to death, and the real numbers are probably higher, because Vietnam treats numerical data on the death penalty as a state secret.
In Laos, although no executions have been reported over the past 11 years, the death penalty is still in force and in 2005, at least seven people, including one woman, have been sentenced to death.
In general, I should like to ask the Council also to incorporate human rights in the broader framework of relations between Europe and the ASEAN countries, although it goes without saying that our relations with them have to do with more than just that.
Not least in view of China and India arriving on the scene, Vietnam is the linchpin in our relations with Asia, but human rights should form an integral part of this.
I am pleased that the Commission and Council have also hammered this message home, and we must without a doubt continue down this path.
In Cambodia, as has been said, it is not just the attacks on democratic plurality — arbitrary persecutions and detentions of several leaders — that are alarming, but also, as Mrs Valenciano has pointed out, the doubly worrying situation of women and children in that country.
In Laos, the humanitarian situation is becoming increasingly serious and it does not just affect the hmong population, but also many other ethnic and national communities; and what is more, local authorities are denying humanitarian organisations access.
For all of these reasons, it seems to me to be reasonable, timely and necessary to call upon the Commission once again, and the Council too, to monitor these events closely and to promote the human rights working groups already in place in Laos and Vietnam.
The important thing, therefore, is not just — I would insist — to work to deal with these issues, to work in favour of research and the monitoring of the policy implemented in those countries, but also — and this is the most important thing as far as I am concerned — to report on how this work is being carried out.
To report — I insist — to the European organisations, but also to the population in question.
Too often it is only those of us on the outside who know what is happening and how to solve it; sometimes it is also necessary for those on the inside to have access to that information. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia have made tremendous economic progress over the past 10&#160;years.
Greater economic freedom is good news, but a serious lack of freedom of expression and of political and religious freedoms is quite the opposite.
To sum up, greater economic freedom in this region is an admirable and commendable development.
On 12&#160;September 2005, Parliament’s Subcommittee on Human Rights held a hearing on Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam, as has been pointed out by previous speakers.
In relation to Cambodia, the motion calls on the authorities to engage in political and institutional reforms, to release political prisoners, to combat corruption, deforestation and displacement of people and to take measures to combat the sex tourism industry.
In relation to Laos, we call on the authorities to release political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, develop a multi-party system where all views and opinions can be taken into account, respect religious minorities and their rights and allow UN agencies unrestricted access to all parts of the country.
In relation to Vietnam, we call on the authorities to promote and to allow a multi-party system to reflect different viewpoints, to end all repression of religious minority groups such as the unified Buddhist church and to release Vietnamese political prisoners of conscience.
They are consistent with the value system of the EU in relation to the promotion of human rights and democracy.
The EU has formal ties with all three countries, with cooperation agreements on Cambodia and Laos in 1997 and Vietnam in 1995.
All of these agreements have human rights clauses.
However, their treatment of Sam Rainsy and other members of his party is clearly unacceptable and the Council and the Commission should continue to press that message.
The treatment of the indigenous minorities, particularly in the Central Highlands and in the north is unacceptable by any international standards, even if one allows for their negative role in the national liberation struggle in Vietnam in decades past.
The real problem, in my view, is in Laos, which is an authoritarian and essentially unreformed regime, where there are limits on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of association and freedom of religion and there is no effective political opposition.
That stipulation continues to be breached on a daily basis, but we still pump in aid as if all was well.
All is very far from well.
In Vietnam, persecution of Christians is rampant, being particularly dire in respect of minority Protestant Christian churches in Vietnam’s central highlands and the north.
The Reverend Quang and his associates have been relentlessly hounded by the Communist authorities.
When the President of the Vietnamese Committee on Human Rights addressed Parliament in December, he described Vietnam as a prison for its people, governed by a red mafia financed by the European taxpayer.
Since the end of military conflict – 30 years ago the war in Vietnam was coming to a close – and the fall of bloody communist regimes – such as that of Pol Pot – or violent anti-government – as in Laos – the international community has been actively cooperating towards supporting former Indochina in terms of development and democracy within the international forum.
It must be recognised that some progress has been made with regard to the right to religious expression: several dozen priests were ordained in Vietnam a few days ago.
It is necessary, however, to do more to win the battle for democracy and human rights.
I hope that between now and then we can – via greater use of the instruments available to us, starting with financial instruments – achieve a genuine policy of defending human rights and fundamental freedoms.
I told myself then that I would take the first opportunity I had in this House to raise the plight of those people.
When the Communist Party took over in 1975, thousands of Hmong people died because they supported the US at the time.
I therefore urge the Commission and Council to consider very seriously what aid, if any, should go to Laos without seeing considerable improvements, in particular with regard to the rights of the Hmong people. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 30 years after the end of the Vietnam war, which dragged Cambodia and Laos into its vortex, the position as regards human rights in these three South-East Asian countries still leaves much to be desired.
Laos is under single-party rule, and any kind of opposition is out of the question.
For as long as people are ending up in jail for their opinions and beliefs, this is a problem that should be addressed not only in a resolution by the European Parliament; the Council and the Commission, too, should help promote good governance, the development of institutions and the implementation of administrative reforms.
It is with this in mind that the joint motion for a resolution expresses not merely a pious wish, but an appeal to all the institutions of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the resolution now being debated is gaining wide support here in Parliament, just as it should.
In the area of human dignity and fundamental human rights we, as European politicians, have an opportunity and an obligation to defend these principles still more vehemently.
The Subcommittee on Human Rights heard how there is real concern about the non-implementation of human rights in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam.
When even the oppressed continue with the oppression, the rest of the world has to intervene in the issue of human rights.
The international community needs to pay very special attention to the status of women.
We do not even have precise knowledge concerning the situation in Laos, as foreign human rights organisations are not allowed into the country.
As Parliament is now giving its broad political support to the resolution, whilst at the same time pointing out the existence of earlier resolutions, we will obviously monitor developments in these countries closely, and if the situation does not improve we will certainly return to this issue. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my fellow Members have stressed in their speeches, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam are three countries where human rights are being flagrantly and persistently violated while the international community stands idly by.
Although these countries are making economic reforms that are necessary for their development, they are forgetting the fundamental rights and freedoms of their citizens, especially those of ethnic and religious minorities.
There are said to be nearly 20&#160;000 of them surviving in the jungle under appalling conditions, conditions that fly in the face of the human rights principles we all support.
The central government denies the facts.
The international community learned their story recently thanks to the media.
We know that the Laotian economy depends on aid from foreign donors, much of it from the European Union; the international community and the European Union therefore have means of bringing pressure to bear on the country’s authorities.
The governments of Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam can be under no illusion that the Council takes human rights seriously.
These governments are fully aware of the strength of feeling within the Council, within the EU Member States and within the European Parliament.
I know that a lot of other EU Member States are funding similar projects in other countries that are doing good work.
That is a welcome development, but we should not forget that human rights abuses still exist in that country, as they do also in Cambodia and in Laos.
We have had some very eloquent contributions explaining and cataloguing those human rights abuses.
I hope that Honourable Members here today continue to take every opportunity to visit these countries to find out the situation for themselves and to raise directly their human rights concerns within the governments of those countries.
When I was in Cambodia, I certainly raised the issue of Sam Rainsy and his party directly with Prime Minister Hun Sen.
At the ASEAN Regional Forum, Javier Solana and I also discussed human rights issues.
The Council will continue to raise its concerns with these governments.
We must also recognise and encourage progress where it is made. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank you for the discussion and particularly for the political emphasis and for the commitment shown by individual MEPs and the European Parliament in expressing adherence to the values and principles that underpin not only the European society, but also any free civilisation wishing to secure progress, human dignity and all life’s necessities.
I firmly believe that through this approach we are placing ourselves not only on the right side, but also on the winning side, the side of gradual change.
The Commission is prepared to make available the details of discussions held by the EU joint working group on these countries, and I firmly believe that the drafting and/or approving the clause on human rights and democracy in our cooperation agreements will also make an important contribution to these principles and values in international relations.
I would like to put forward one example that is important from the perspective of people to people communication.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on - the oral question to the Council by Nikolaos Sifunakis, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the Olympic truce (O-0084/2005 – B6-0335/2005), - the oral question to the Council by Maria Martens, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on development and sport (O-0078/2005 – B6-0340/2005) and - the oral question to the Commission by Maria Martens, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on development and sport (O-0079/2005 – B6-0341/2005). &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the European Parliament Committee on Culture and Education, the committee responsible for young people and sport, I particularly welcome today's debate in plenary on the recent motion for a resolution by the Committee on Culture on the Olympic Truce, in the run-up to the winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in Turin next February.
From the ninth century B.C., when the institution of the Olympic Truce was born with the signature of a peace treaty between the kings of Sparta, Elis and Pisa, until 393 A.D., the year in which the Olympic Games were abolished, the Olympic Truce was observed for 12 successive centuries to the degree which it deserves and contributed to respect for the institution of the Olympic Games.
In 1992, the International Olympic Committee called on the international community to cease all hostilities during the 1992 Olympic Games.
In 1994, during the Olympic Games in Lillehammer, weapons were quiet in Sarajevo and, four years later, in February 1998 during the Olympic Games in Nagano, the conflict in the Gulf was averted thanks to the intervention of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Annan.
The General Assembly of the United Nations has adopted a series of resolutions since 1993, calling on the states to respect the Olympic Truce.
These resolutions have been accepted by all the Member States, which is a rare occurrence at the United Nations and proves that the idea of the Olympic Truce is an objective for the entire global community.
It is worth pointing out that our honourable friend, Mr Stavros Lambrinidis, was the first director of the International Olympic Truce Centre and coordinator of this endeavour.
The idea of the Olympic Truce comes from a deep conviction that sport and the sporting ideal can help to create a peaceful and better world.
I therefore believe that we too should contribute both with our words and our actions to making this a reality. &#160;&#160; .
The year is also intended as an incentive to create conditions for more and better sports projects in developing countries.
Countries and NGOs are encouraged to do more in the framework of development cooperation and sport.
This is the first time that development cooperation and sport have appeared together on our agenda, and it is something that I welcome.
Sport can make a positive contribution to social cohesion, teamwork, health, intercultural dialogue, and many other things.
That is why sport can play a vital role in terms of development.
Large organisations, such as UNICEF or Olympic committees in various countries, but also national governments, such as those of Norway, Canada, Great Britain and the Netherlands, international sports umbrella organisations, such as FIFA, are all carrying out projects in this area.
In the Netherlands, not just the government is active, but also NGOs, such as the NKS, the Dutch Catholic Sports Federation, have been working on sports projects in developing countries for years.
Interesting examples can also be found, for example, in the area of education and health care and also in the prevention of HIV/AIDS.
Everyone should be entitled to practise a sport.
The question to the Commission and the Council is intended to raise awareness in Europe about the opportunities that sport can offer in the area of development cooperation.
Heads of State and Government at the Brussels European Council of 12 December 2003 supported the idea of an Olympic truce and welcomed the United Nations' resolution on this.
In addition, the Troika of Education and Sports Ministers stressed, during the launch of the European Year of Education through Sport on 29 January 2004, the importance of the Olympic truce and its message of peace, tolerance and friendship, its unique place in the lives of citizens and its positive role in the promotion of friendship and the breaking down of social and cultural barriers.
In reply to Mrs Martens, the Council would initially like to point out to the Honourable Member that activities relating purely to sport do not fall within the scope of the Treaty establishing the European Community and that the Community has no specific competence in the field of sport.
The Council considers, however, that measures and events related to sports can be a great help in promoting education, health, social cohesion, and in combating discrimination and ensuring an inclusive society.
The Council would also like to note that the educational values of sport were acknowledged by the Nice European Council of December 2000.
On 5 May 2003, the Council subsequently adopted a resolution on the social value of sport for young people.
The Council firmly believes in the valuable role that sport has to play in developing countries in promoting education, health and community cohesion.
It therefore supports the designation of 2005 as the UN International Year of Sport and Physical Education and welcomes the efforts made to promote the use of sport as a tool for development.
Although education and health did not feature in the 2000 DPS, the revised European Consensus on Development Policy highlighted human development as an area for Community action.
We recognise the value of sport in promoting a healthy lifestyle and in preventing many lifestyle-associated diseases.
In particular, the Cotonou ACP-EU Partnership Agreement foresees cooperation and self-support policies, measures and operations aimed at helping community-based institutions to give children the opportunity to develop their physical potential.
Sport and physical education should mainly be considered in the context of Millennium Development Goal Two to achieve universal primary education by 2015 and Millennium Development Goal Three to eliminate gender disparity in all levels of education, no later than 2015.
For the second Millennium Development Goal, the first priority for the EU in education for development is basic education, in particular primary education.
The EU is firmly committed towards achieving universal primary education and gender equality in education by 2015.
Firstly, through international institutions, the EU supports actively the UN initiatives 'Education for All' and the 'Fast-Track Initiative', in partnership with other donors – UNESCO and the World Bank – as well as UNICEF in this field.
The EU also supports non-formal education of young people in the framework of the Youth Programme.
As regards Millennium Development Goal Three, the EU is also very active in international fora, such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the International Conference on Population and Development.
One of the key priorities in policy terms in promoting gender equality is granting access for girls and women to education, including physical education.
In this context, the Council welcomes and strongly supports the resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly at its 60th session in September 2005, which emphasises the role of both formal and informal education in the achievement of poverty eradication and other Millennium Development Goals.
The Council reaffirms the commitment to support developing country efforts to ensure that all children have access to completely free and compulsory primary education of good quality, to eliminate gender inequality and imbalance and to renew efforts to improve girls' education.
Lastly, it sets out the commitment to promote education for peace and human development. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I rise on a point of order under the Rules of Procedure which concern the possibility for Members of the House to ask the President-in-Office whether he would give way.
The Minister gave a long and interesting speech, but he has not answered the question about an Olympic truce.
Minister Pearson described many reasons why sport, education and social development are so important in our policies in the Union, but also vis-à-vis third countries and with regard to our developing goals, especially the Millennium Goals.
Sport and physical education can contribute to attaining the Millennium Development Goals.
We welcome the work done by the United Nations in this field, in particular the creation of a special international platform on sport and development.
We also welcome the proclamation of 2005 as the International Year of Sport and Physical Education.
The Commission is, and will be, further involved in these activities.
In particular, we will now participate in the closing conference of this initiative, which will focus precisely on the issue of sport and development.
As you have mentioned already, this year was preceded by the European Year of Education through Sport 2004, which was a very important year for our area of cooperation.
I will officially report to the Parliament by the end of this year on these activities and on subsequent recommendations or conclusions.
I therefore believe there will be more time and space to deal with the results of this initiative.
Nevertheless, when it comes to funding projects in the field of sport and development, the European Union’s support for such initiatives could only be channelled through the existing programmes in the field of development cooperation.
Projects using sport as a means for development have been co-financed, for example, in the field of non-formal education, social integration or to encourage women from disadvantaged communities to participate in sport.
This follows a similar initiative on the occasion of the Summer Olympics in Athens in 2004.
To conclude, I would like to say that there is a strong and growing engagement in Parliament and the Committee on Culture and Education in the sports area.
I congratulate you for this, because it is important for the overall development not only of sport, but also of our European spirit. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, sport is a human right.
The Committee on Development chose to carry out this review from the point of view of the contribution of sport to the promotion of education, health, development and peace.
Within the same framework, on Thursday 3 November 2005, 190 of the 191 Members States went to the headquarters of the United Nations and signed, in the presence of Kofi Annan, the text of the truce which would apply for the duration of the winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in Turin in February 2006.
The defence of democracy and freedom and the safeguarding of peace between peoples, the defence of human dignity and the protection of young athletes is the responsibility of all of us.
The Olympic Games, therefore, are a huge opportunity for the European Union to promote these ideals in its turn too, by calling on all nations on earth to respect the truce for the duration of the winter games in Turin.
Famous sports personalities such as Pele, Ronaldo, Zidane and many others are using their names, as goodwill ambassadors of the United Nations, to highlight the importance of the fight against racism and poverty.
Sport could also have an economic impact, in that a country that invests in the good physical condition of its citizens, starting with young people in school, may over the long term reduce health expenditure, given that, according to a United Nations report, 40% of illnesses on a global scale are linked to a lack of exercise and poor physical condition.
To close, the twentieth winter Olympic Games in Turin are a huge opportunity for the whole of mankind to respect the truce and, at the same time, to defend, in the name of sport, health and development within the framework of healthy competition.
Sport can be a positive way of expressing rivalry between peoples without this ending up in bad behaviour or use of violence – just think of the Netherlands and Germany, but is also a tough business.
The Commission could mount the same campaign against racism on European pitches.
I applaud the fact that games and sport in education will be linked up to developing countries.
I also applaud the fact that a number of Member States are actively throwing their weight behind this sports project.
I respect subsidiarity, but let the EU focus, via the Commissioner for Sport, on a number of agreements with European sports clubs, such as UEFA, on a ban on young football slaves and a clampdown on racism on European pitches.
It has also been part of that tradition that, during the Olympics, during those 16 days, there is an attempt to suspend all hostilities and allow nations to come together.
Then nations have also showed, and I hope they will continue to do so, that they can live in peaceful coexistence.
Sport is an excellent tool for this.
On the contrary, sport, whose purpose it is to bring people together to compete in a spirit of fair play, should unite nations: this could be that source of wealth, that source of growth, which in the future we act to support.
Let it be our goal to achieve permanent peace between nations and countries, and let sport be instrumental in building this peace. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, a major European intellectual of the last century said that the world had inherited three things from Greece: the Olympic Games, philosophical thought from Socrates, Plato and Aristotle and theatre from Aeschylus, Euripides, Aristophanes and all those great Greeks.
The Olympic Games stopped in 393 for purely political reasons which we all know.
The Olympic Games started in 1896 and we saw war stop.
They were not held in 1940 or in 1944, due to the war with the Nazis.
The other two Olympic Games, in Los Angeles and Moscow, were sullied because the teams of the two big countries did not take part for political reasons.
We must therefore protect the Olympic Truce.
Only then will we give meaning again to the Olympic Games.
The Olympic Truce must come today into our lives, we must convince the big not to wage war on the small. &#160;&#160; .
Sports transcends all boundaries.
Ethnic, religious, social and national differences play no role in sport.
Sport can play a vital role in encouraging development and sports projects can contribute to reaching the Millennium Development Goals, especially under themes such as health, education, gender, environment, peace and human rights.
During 2005, some 4.9&#160;million people became newly infected with the virus.
Around half of the people who become infected with HIV do so before they are 25 and are killed by AIDS before they are 35.
I would ask people to remain committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. &#160;&#160; The fourth principle of the Olympic Charta, the most significant constitution of international sport, unambiguously states that sport constitutes a basic and inalienable human right.
Accordingly, a few European constitutions – such as the Greek, Portuguese or Swiss – directly grant the right to physical education and sport.
If the right to sport is granted by constitution, then the responsibility of the state in respect of sport, as well as its participation in and support of physical education and sport are unquestionable.
The Draft Constitution of the European Union, too, contains direct regulations concerning sport, declaring the importance of sport and acknowledging its significance in European societies.
Europe is the centre of international sport.
There is not one family in Europe without at least one family member being affected.
Sport has a tremendous potential for bringing together and integrating cultures, nations and ethnic groups, as demonstrated by peaceful world competitions, Olympic games and world championships.
This is reflected in the fact that the UN and the European Union dedicated last year and this year to sport and education through sport.
It is unfortunate that in spite of the above, the importance of sport is not widely acknowledged within the European Union.
I believe it is erroneous to take into account only the commercial aspects of sport.
The visit to Middlesbrough by the North Korean football team during the 1966 World Cup and their recent return was graphically portrayed in a documentary, .
If Khin Nyunt is transferred to chief administrator of the Burmese windsurfing squad to visit my own constituency in Weymouth in 2012, he should not be given a visa.
Djibril Diallo, the head of the taskforce, will be in Brussels on 10 and 11&#160;January.
I hope we can build on this and that Members will participate. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as an Italian and an elected Member for Piedmont, I have recently taken part in numerous meetings and events in connection with the forthcoming Winter Olympics due to take place in Turin.
Much has been said about the economic and tourism benefits that the Olympics will bring to Turin, but not as much – or at any rate too little –about the social dimension and the role sport can play in promoting development, health, education and peace, as has been mentioned in this House.
We must, however, remain vigilant that sport is not used as a vehicle for propaganda – I refer, for example, to Cuba and to totalitarian regimes in general – or for spreading hatred or racism – I refer to the recent unpleasant incidents we have seen in certain Italian stadiums or the instances when the fundamental values of sport and competition are betrayed by athletes who use performance-enhancing drugs. &#160;&#160; Madam President, as has already been said, the tradition of the Olympic truce was established in Ancient Greece in the ninth century BC.
Today, the proliferation of armed conflicts is a reality; the International Olympic Committee decided, quite rightly, to restore this notion from the Ancient World in order to protect the interests of the athletes and of sport in general, thereby contributing to the creation of a window of opportunity for dialogue, reconciliation and peace through sport.
As a Catalan, I must tell you that I am very proud that it was in 1992, on the occasion of the Barcelona Olympics, that the then Mayor of Barcelona, Pascual Maragall, called upon the United Nations to restore the tradition of the Olympic truce and to negotiate a ceasefire in the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
We must remind the international community of the importance of complying with this truce and appeal to the conscience and commitment of the governments to peace, mobilising young people in favour of Olympic ideals and taking advantage of the Games to make it possible to establish contacts between communities in conflict.
Finally, I support the present resolution in the hope that the 20th Winter Olympics will promote respect for and the continuity of the Olympic truce, which is beneficial to peace, sport and human and cultural exchanges at world level. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is true that sport is so much more than just a game.
Sport promotes common values and should therefore not be treated in any way as a purely economic interest.
Many large and small clubs in the European football competition are socially active in community projects.
We must nurture and encourage this function of sport.
Projects in which local governments and football clubs work closely together for more social cohesion – as it is known – deserve support.
At the very moment that this debate is going on, a hearing is being held elsewhere in this building on football as an instrument against racism.
I sincerely hope, Commissioner and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you will be on our side when we come to develop European sports policy – one that will, over the next few months and years, focus first and foremost on this undeniable social role both within the European Union – with or without a constitution – and outside it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of an Olympic truce or ‘ekecheiria’, meaning ‘raise your hands’ – the Greek language is still extraordinarily relevant when it comes to conveying political activity – is as ancient as the Olympics themselves, when, in order that the games could take place, the inviolability of Olympia was guaranteed, so that those who went to watch or participate in the contests remained unharmed.
We believe that the European Parliament should also vigorously support this initiative in order to bolster the spirit of peace and mutual respect. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the city of Turin has, on the occasion of the Olympic Games, promoted an initiative of international cooperation among cities in order to support and promote the Olympic truce.
The first initiative of the modern era dates from 1992 when, following a call from the International Olympic Committee, the athletes of the former Yugoslavia were allowed to take part in the Barcelona Games.
On 3&#160;November 2005 the United Nations General Assembly approved the resolution for the Olympic truce for Turin 2006, a resolution presented to Italy and signed by 190 nations.
The truce is a call for peace that ignores all political persuasions and, as such, cannot be exploited by anyone in any circumstances ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Sifunakis and Mr Berlinguer for this wonderful initiative.
However, sometimes we have to show that our assembly is not only a legislation factory: we are also a moral forum distributing European values and the message of peace.
Perhaps the Olympic truce will also become a reality for us and the coming generations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, you cannot play and wage war at the same time.
You cannot send some of your young people to a sports ground to compete in peace and some of your young people to a battle field to be killed.
Six years ago, in view of the forthcoming Olympic Games in Athens, Greece and the International Olympic Committee, represented at the time by Samarand and Papandreou, reinstituted this institution.
The United Nations have approved it unanimously.
May we all parade at the Olympic Games with our own flag in one hand and the European flag in the other.
It can improve people’s lifestyles, their health and wellbeing; it can lift up the spirits and it can be just great fun.
All the UN countries agreed a resolution on the Olympic truce at their general assembly on 3&#160;November, so this truce is supported by all EU Member States.
We agree, of course, with Mr Takkula that our long-term aim should be for permanent peace, rather than just during the Olympic Games.
However, to see peace during the period of the Turin Games will be a step forward.
If that can continue to Beijing in the Summer Olympics in 2008 and to London in 2012, nobody would be more delighted than myself, the Council and I am sure everybody listening to this debate here today.
In fact, this was one of the issues that sports ministers discussed when they looked at how to promote diversity and equal opportunities at a meeting in Liverpool in the UK in September.
The motions for resolutions on this subject that will be put to the vote here tomorrow are very important.
On behalf of the Council, I can say that we certainly welcome the questions; we encourage the Olympic truce initiative and support the motions for resolutions before you. &#160;&#160; I have received two motions for resolution(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 103(2)/108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; – This resolution concerns a policy area that should fall outside the competence of the EU.
These are national, or even regional, issues.
It is important to combat racism and discrimination, but it is not necessary to take action at EU level in connection with this kind of programme.
These are issues on which each country should decide for itself and on which the EU should have absolutely no say.
However, I would like to point out that the biggest concern lies in the fact that the USA and the European Union have signed a document treating the two parts of Moldova as equal parties to the conflict, with Russia being an intermediary.
I believe that Ireland was one of a number of countries who opposed the directive after it passed through Parliament in 1999 on the grounds that it might make ferry services to peripheral regions uneconomic to run.
Their only alternative is to remain working with Irish Ferries and earn approximately 50% of their current salary.
That is totally unacceptable.
If the Ferries Directive were in place, it would have prevented this situation.
If European citizens are to support the EU, they must be assured that the EU will deliver for them and their families.
These inhabitants fear for the environment and for their health, quite rightly, given the presence of asbestos.
I believe that the European Parliament should take on board the proposals of the delegation from the Committee on Petitions, since it is only fair that the Susa Valley benefit from an Olympic truce as well. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the events in France over the past few weeks have been unprecedented.
Yet the European Parliament is still saying nothing, and acting as though nothing had happened.
The prevailing trend is to act as though we had reached the end of history, or in other words as though the world were peaceful and could be ruled by means of an ever greater number of directives.
I refer, of course, to the death of George Best.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity, I am sure on behalf of us all, to salute his sporting memory and to express condolences to his son, his aged father, his brother and his sisters. &#160;&#160; I am sure the entire House would share your sentiments and indeed the applause that has just been expressed for the life of George Best. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we recently received new information about the key figures in the notorious Russian Yukos trial of Mr&#160;Khodorkovsky and Mr&#160;Lebedev.
Both Mr Khodorkovsky and Mr Lebedev have now been sent to serve their sentences thousands of kilometres away from their homes.
So tonight, to mark St Andrew’s Day, Scotland’s national day, we are hosting a reception in the restaurant, where Scottish beef will be available in the European Parliament for the first time in ten years.
Mr President, through you I should like to thank the whole House for its participation in the Best of Scotland Week.
We have had magnificent support from Members of Parliament, and I hope Members have enjoyed seeing just how good Scotland is and what great produce we have to offer the rest of the world. &#160;&#160; Well, as a fellow ‘Scott’, Mr Martin, I should like to endorse everything you said.
I asked whether Parliament, the Commission and the Council discussed their accommodation needs with each other.
The problem has already elicited complaints from the population even on the Austrian side.
I should also like to make it known that it merely confirms us in our belief that we Polish Members were right to emphasise our allegiance to our homeland.
I can assure the Members of this House and its President that the flags will reappear, and that they will stay there as long as members of the League of Polish Families are represented in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to speak on the immoral behaviour of the company Irish Ferries.
I know my colleague, Mr De Rossa, will be speaking on this issue as well.
The approach adopted by Irish Ferries has been positively Victorian.
We clearly need to revisit the 1998 Manning Directive.
I should like to ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the Council puts this on the agenda for Monday’s Transport Council meeting.
This is something that my colleague, Mr De Rossa, is also very keen to see. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during last week’s meeting of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee here in Parliament, the chief Turkish accession negotiator, Mr Ali Babacan, accused Parliament of having terrorist supporters in its corridors.
On this occasion, and for the second time in the last two months, it has extended its military presence in the buffer zone, this time in the town of Nicosia at the Ledra Street level.
The Russian Duma passed a bill imposing restrictions on NGOs at first reading last week.
One of the arguments in favour of passing the new bill is that these organisations are a tool used by third countries to conduct foreign policy in Russia.
Russia is moving ever further away from democratic standards, and we should not stand idly by and watch fundamental rights be denied in a country that has a privileged relationship with the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in the 18&#160;months since the Eastern European countries joined the European Union, we have seen an increasing number of measures taken by certain old EU Member States and by Russia that strike at the economic heart of the new Member States, instead of providing genuine support that would allow these latter to catch up with the old Member States in terms of development.
The reform of the sugar market currently underway will hit the new EU Member States hardest, and put even more people out of work.
Huge cuts have been proposed to the EU budget for the development of poor regions located in the new EU Member States.
If the new EU Member States are not granted subjective rights, the public in these countries will soon make known its opposition to the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to comment on what was said by some of the earlier speakers here.
Mr President, I should like to ask you to inform the Commission that the Irish Ferries company is looking to fire its entire workforce and replace it with cheaper labour using the device of reflagging in Cyprus in order to avoid Irish, British and French labour law.
This issue has grave implications for every maritime state in the EU and it has resulted in the cancellation in Ireland of social partnership negotiations.
They have heard with alarm the attack by Commissioner McCreevy on the Swedish social model, they are deeply concerned about the country of origin principle in the Services Directive and now they see a profitable company pushing wages down to EUR&#160;3.60 per hour: half the legal minimum wage in Ireland.
In this crisis the European Commission must move immediately to reintroduce to Parliament and Council the draft directive on manning conditions for ferries, which this Parliament approved in its first stage in 1999 and which has since been blocked by the Council.
It is really an important issue and, unless the Commission deals with it as a matter of priority, we are going to see a deepening crisis in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is always a pleasure to see you in the Chair, because one knows things will run smoothly.
Mr Blair has been under intense pressure to surrender the British rebate of GBP&#160;3&#160;billion per annum in order to prevent the collapse of the EU budget talks for 2007 to 2013.
In the tradition of British governments since 1972, it is almost certain that Mr Blair will surrender the British national interest – in this case the budget rebate – while no doubt still finding a way of trumpeting it as a triumph of diplomacy. &#160;&#160; I would not be at all surprised! &#160;&#160; There has been considerable confusion in Hungarian public opinion recently, because new Member States are still taking the European Commission and its criticism seriously.
We ask the President of Parliament to ensure equal treatment, to put a stop to discrimination, and to act in this respect against the Commission. &#160;&#160; My colleagues from the PPE-DE Group and I have symbolically adopted political prisoner Antonio Díaz Sánchez sentenced to twenty years of incarceration by Cuban totalitarian regime.
I recently received a letter from Mrs Gisela Sánchez, wife of Antonio Sánchez, who will be awarded the Andrei Sakharov Prize during the December session in Strasbourg together with other members of the movement ‘Women in White’.
In any case, the European Union, the UN and Parliament have recognised Macedonia as the FYROM.
If we ourselves do not respect the institutions, no citizen in Europe will respect them.
If, therefore, we want results and logical processes and real democracy, there must be respect for the institutions and I call on you to issue the relevant instructions to the MEPs also to respect the institutions. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I have risen to speak about discrimination against Polish workers who are legally employed in Belgium.
I am not talking about people working on the black market, but about people who are officially entitled to work, and who had contracts of employment with well-known companies in Flanders.
These contracts have been terminated, and all because of pressure from trade unions.
This demonstrates that both the law and people’s mindsets need changing in this European Union of ours, which I almost referred to as a common European Union.
The concerns of European citizens over avian flu and the fact that we have had the first outbreaks in Europe have made it even more important to adopt this new, updated and more effective legislation as soon as possible.
We have to take all possible measures to ensure that it remains so.
This directive is also of great importance for international cooperation.
The Commission is co-hosting the conference in Beijing with three international organisations, the OIE, FAO and WHO, as well as the World Bank, which will aim to coordinate international assistance.
This revised directive aims for better prevention and eradication of outbreaks and to reduce health risks, costs and losses.
The Commission proposal recognises that the avian influenza virus is largely unpredictable, and therefore that we must be able to take the appropriate proportionate measures to deal with this real situation as circumstances evolve.
This directive deals with animal health.
I would also like to inform you that two days ago the Commission adopted two plans with regard to public health, one on generic pandemic preparedness and the other on influenza pandemic preparedness.
There are amendments in the report which we will be happy to accept, whereas others warrant full consideration as a matter of principle but in a different context, such as those on the financial aspects, research and support to third countries.
It is important to get the results of this research as soon as possible so that we can plan our response.
I would stress, as the Commissioner did, that this proposal deals with animal health.
It is very important to get this legislation right in order to protect EU poultry and ensure that legislation is proportionate to the risk posed.
The Commission proposal aims to introduce compulsory surveillance for low pathogen avian influenza in all Member States.
It spells out the measures to be taken in the event of an outbreak or suspected outbreak, allows new and more flexible provisions on vaccination – and I welcome that – and brings in a more flexible provision for domestic birds other than poultry, which will help in the case of zoos and endangered species.
I would like a study to be conducted on the impact of migratory birds on the spread of the disease.
Finally, I would call upon all Members of this House to support these amendments and to get this regulation on the statute book as soon as possible so that we can put a proper contingency plan in place in the unfortunate event of an outbreak of avian influenza hitting Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fresh outbreaks of avian influenza in Asian countries and in some European countries, following the slaughter of millions of birds in Italy and the Netherlands, give ample grounds for more effective preventative measures to be taken, and for appropriate steps to be taken to support Member States in the event of an outbreak.
We now know that vigilance and prevention are of the utmost importance, even in the case of low pathogenic viruses, which can mutate into the highly pathogenic strain after circulation for short periods in a poultry population.
Furthermore, although it is rare for human beings to be infected, there have nonetheless been outbreaks among the human population in recent years caused by certain avian-influenza viruses, leading to dozens of fatalities in Asia.
For these reasons, and taking account of the opinions of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, and the Committee on Budgets, whose rapporteurs, Mr Sturdy and Mr Mulder, I wish to thank, the Committee on Agriculture emphasises the need to strengthen the Commission’s proposal on five crucial points.
Thirdly, Community support must be given to the Member States to develop a system for monitoring the disease, including laboratory diagnosis and research (particularly into suitable vaccines).
Fourthly, measures should be taken involving cooperation and technical support for third countries, in particular Asian ones, in order to enable preventative and screening action to be taken in the countries in which avian influenza originates.
As far as the Committee on Agriculture is concerned, the amount of financial assistance should total 50% of the costs borne by the Member States, in cases both of high and low pathogenic avian influenza, because if action needs to be taken and animals need to be slaughtered, the losses incurred are the same.
I believe, however, that in this case it is right to increase Community assistance to 60%, in line with my proposal, because if a Member State faces a situation of this nature having taken the necessary prevention measures, it deserves solidarity from the Community, and this may indeed help to prevent the disease from spreading.
I should like to thank both rapporteurs, Mr Parish and Mrs Figueiredo, for the hard work they have done.
One of the major budgetary problems is that the agricultural budget will, in future, be stretched.
We have seen what happened in France and the Netherlands and the fact that people do not trust the European Union, Parliament and the Commission.
The Commissioner mentioned the disease and I would like to ask him another question.
We must look at that very closely. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank all the speakers in the debate so far.
When we have a debate, we should have it without any interruptions.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the gist of the Figueiredo report, and particularly the costs and prevention for the control of animal diseases, as approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I am in favour of a 50/50 split between the Commission and Member States, but in terms of Member State contributions, it should slowly become clear who is footing the bill: the Member States or, as is the case in some other Member States, the farmers.
I am pleased by the adoption of our and Mr Berman’s amendment, which states that, in the event of a serious threat of bird flu, the vaccine can be used as a preventive measure without this affecting the market position – and I would like to stress this, also looking at the Commissioner, without this affecting the market position.
Non-vaccination policy has, in fact, run its course.
In a world where markets are becoming more open, where people travel, it is no longer appropriate that vaccination should not be used effectively and, above all, that the use of vaccination should lead to restrictions on the market of the products.
It is essential for us to go down this route in Europe.
I would like to thank her again for the contribution to her report, and I shall thank Mr&#160;Parish in person. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, today’s debate on avian influenza, the current pace of work and the document adopted by Parliament and the Commission are all excellent examples of good cooperation between the two institutions.
Influenza is not a problem faced by individual Member States or by Europe as a whole, but a global problem.
Firstly, we should ensure that funding is available under the 2006 budget and future budgets for preventive actions.
A single blueprint for European veterinary services and authorities responsible for public health should be drawn up.
We should facilitate the setting up and funding of several new reference laboratories in other Member States.
Millions of avian deaths have recently been caused by the virus responsible and many human conditions are being attributed directly to the highly pathogenic avian influenza virus, HPAI.
It is of interest that, as with most influenza pandemics, the 1918 flu pandemic only lasted for about one year and gradually disappeared in the subsequent period.
This should perhaps cause us to carefully consider how drastic our precautionary measures should be.
This is why I agree with both the Commissioner and the rapporteur that a balanced approach is the most rational to take.
It is therefore my view that close scientific monitoring of the epidemiology and molecular biology of the avian flu virus is essential.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal put forward by the Commissioner is a good one, and, as he said in his speech, what we are dealing with here is an animal disease.
The good thing about the proposal is that it answers the question ‘to inoculate or not to inoculate?’ As you know – and I know all the more, having been in this House for longer – this has been the subject of debate over many years, the issue always being whether vaccination should be ongoing or, alternatively, prophylactic and in response to a specific occurrence of disease.
It is there that we must provide technical aid and around the world that precautions must be taken if animals are to be kept healthy and people such as ourselves protected from the possibility of viruses altering and mutating to our own peril. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the new directive is necessary so that measures can be take to protect public health and poultry stocks from avian influenza and to prevent the virus from mutating from a low to a high pathogenic virus and the risk of its spreading to humans.
The measures proposed in the directive are the right measures.
However, when you look more closely at the scientific and empirical data available on bird flu, you see certain trends emerging.
First, it does not seem to have as great or as damaging an impact on wild birds as it does on domesticated or commercial flocks.
As we have seen with the outbreaks of foot and mouth disease, Newcastle disease and other animal diseases, a policy aimed at slaughtering animals is the only sure way of killing off the disease.
However, at every stage in human health development when there has been a need or a desire to respond to a risk to human health, they have come up with solutions and answers, and we should listen to what they have to say.
Finally, the guidance and leadership that the Commissioner has given on this issue, and the clear thinking and cool logic which has been shown, is a model that other Commissioners would do well to follow when dealing with other public service issues. &#160;&#160; I welcome the discussion about this report in European Parliament.
Its aim is to strengthen the prevention of pandemic of bird-origin influenza, reduce health risks, and prevent the potential loss of life.
However, cooperation is required not only at the international level, but also within individual countries between different sectors.
The Spanish flu pandemic of 1917 that killed 40 million should give all of us sufficient warning.
In a recent discussion here in European Parliament Commissioner Kyprianou made a misleading statement when he said that he had 25 national action plans on the table.
It is not important for us whether you have 25 programmes on the table.
What matters is that you have one common and good quality plan to fight the pandemic.
This has occurred in spite of the fact that Hungarian scientists had prepared and successfully tested the vaccine against the current H5N1 virus.
In order to avoid hysteria and panic, our most important tasks are to introduce prevention measures effective at Member State level, to make comprehensive and cautious plans, and to act in a determined, considered and coordinated manner in the event of an epidemic.
In the spirit of a responsible attitude towards European citizens, the European Union must assume a high degree of solidarity.
The coordination of vaccine production capacities and the consolidation of vaccine distribution principles would give citizens of countries with no vaccine production capacity equal opportunities for obtaining the vaccine.
Let us not forget that among the 10 new Member States, Hungary is the only country with a vaccine production facility.
I would like to express my gratitude to both rapporteurs for tabling this important issue that does not affect the citizens of Europe only. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my group in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety endorses the approach of our draftsman Mr&#160;Sturdy, not least in his encomia for the general rapporteur Mr Parish, and for the Commissioner and his emphasis throughout on studied vigilance rather than either hysteria or complacency.
The six questions that the Commissioner sent to the Community health ministers seem to me to be the right ones, but the question remains as to whether he gets the right answers from them in terms of the way we can mobilise our stocks of anti-virals prior to the development of a vaccine.
I would just say in passing to Dr Matsakis, whom I greatly esteem, that I do not share his relative happiness with the outcome of the events of 1918.
The attribution of guilt to one party is just as wrong-headed as, for example, making wild birds responsible for the spread of this disease, for which science has shown and demonstrated other causes.
This has, so far, been more of a media event than a medical one in the true sense of the word, if one compares it with many other developments and worse diseases.
We do indeed need to carry on keeping a watchful eye on how things develop, and I hope that all those affected will be involved in the monitoring process.
A number of Member States have set up sound bilateral projects over there, and the FAO has played a coordinating role in this.
The Commission should build on this by financially supporting initiatives of the EU Member States in South-East Asia and by leaving the coordination to the FAO.
In short, I urge you to support bilateral initiatives of the Member States in South-East Asia, fund research, support the FAO’s coordination and organise more monitoring at European level.
We are currently doing this and I agree with Members that we have to develop a better vaccine, which is easier to use, more effective and does not hide the disease and infection.
At the same time, there is still much to be learned about the involvement and effect of migratory and other wild birds in spreading the disease.
With regard to surveillance, we are using hunters and have asked other groups to also support us in this effort.
At the same time, this exercise has proved that there is inter-operability between the plans; we do not have 25 or 27&#160;separate actions.
The exchange of information and the communication also worked.
As mentioned earlier, I know there are some views – I see Mr Parish is smiling – that would also support a stamping-out policy for the low pathogenic form.
Finally, I would like to say that we take into account the issues of animal welfare and the breeding aspects of animals and birds.
I should like to thank Members for this interesting debate. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; Adopting a common strategy to face a possible crisis is extremely important for European industries and consumers.
The more the European Union takes on board the urgency of the situation, the more its citizens will sense that our interference in their daily lives is not merely bureaucratic, but tangible and effective.
It is therefore necessary to attain the maximum level of joint financing possible, that is to say 50% for the slaughter of animals infected with the virus and 50% for other expenses in the veterinary sector.
The Commission cannot take any action against a country protecting its own citizens: health must never come second to the laws of the market.
Amendments No: 31, 45, 49, 51, 53, 55, 58, 60, 62, 63, 65, 66, 71, 72, 84, 88, 89, 90, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 118 Amendments No: 7, 10, 11, 17, 22, 26, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 47, 59, 69, 74, 94, 99, 105, oral amendment on Recital 11b (new) Amendments No: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 57, 61, 64, 67, 68, 70, 73, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87, 91, 92, 93, 95, 96, 97, 98, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 116, 117, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125 Amendments No: 2, 4(1), 4(2) Amendments No: 1, 3, 4(3), 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mr&#160;Van&#160;Hecke, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on compulsory licensing of patents relating to the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems (COM(2004)0737 C6-0168/2004 2004/0258(COD)) (A6-0242/2005). &#160;&#160; .
The proposal from the Commission aims to implement at EU level the WTO General Council Decision of 30&#160;August 2003, allowing copies of patented medicines to be produced for export to countries in need.
It has to be seen within the wider context of existing national and international frameworks for patent protection.
The discussions in the WTO leading up to the decision of 30&#160;August were long and complex.
The decision itself represents a delicate balance between the need to ensure access now to medicines for countries with public health problems, and the need to encourage development in the future of new medicines, through investment in research and innovation protected under the patent system.
It will remain in force until a permanent amendment is made to the TRIPs Agreement.
The negotiations on such an amendment have not yet been successful, despite several deadlines having passed.
The compulsory licensing issue thus remains on the agenda of the WTO.
Indeed, all three institutions, Parliament, the Council and the Commission, have supported the principle of early agreement on the regulation, and intensive informal discussions have been taking place with that in mind.
While these discussions have not always been easy, they took place in a spirit of good cooperation, and I must congratulate Mr Van Hecke again on the results which show how well the institutions can work together.
We have tried to produce an instrument that will allow the compulsory licensing procedure of the WTO decision to fit within the context of Member States’ existing national patent law and the compulsory licensing procedures they already have under that law.
An instrument at EU level implementing the WTO decision has great symbolic value as an external demonstration of the EU’s commitment to the decision.
The WTO decision provides for export of medicines to WTO members who are least-developed countries or who are developing countries with insufficient manufacturing capacity of their own.
That position was based on our assessment of the WTO decision, which specifically covers WTO members as beneficiary countries.
I am pleased to say that since then we have accepted humanitarian arguments that all least-developed countries and certain low-income developing countries should be eligible, regardless of whether they are currently WTO members.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Commissioner said, my report seeks to implement the WTO General Council Decision of 30&#160;August 2003.
This Decision gives the WTO members, in application of paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration on TRIPs, the option of granting compulsory licences for the production and sale of patented pharmaceutical products to countries with an acute public health problem and insufficient, or no, production capacity.
It is just about the only agreement that the WTO members managed to reach in Cancún.
My report aims to ensure that this WTO Decision is applied, by means of a European regulation, in a uniform manner in all EU Member States.
This consensus gave us a particularly strong negotiating position during the informal trialogue that was started without delay.
Nearly all the proposals by the Committee on International Trade were eventually accepted thanks to the excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs of the other political parties who have upheld Parliament’s viewpoints with much expertise and force, for which I am very grateful to them.
It is, after all, often those organisations that distribute medicines in developing countries.
Furthermore, an accelerated and simplified procedure will be introduced to deal with demand for additional quantities, and I would thank Mr Arif who has played a key role in this.
Another important change is the scrapping of the requirement of prior negotiations with the patent holder in the case of a significant emergency situation arising or other situations of non-commercial or public use.
As far as these prior negotiations are concerned, the Committee on International Trade has insisted on the period being specified more clearly as being a maximum of 30 days.
In other cases, the economic value will be taken into consideration, but 4% will remain the benchmark.
The compromise entails a number of changes over against the original Commission proposal, and these were incorporated into amendments tabled both by me and by the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups.
I hope that they will be adopted and that the agreement reached with the Council and Commission can be ratified.
This can only benefit our credibility in respect of the many needy in the developing countries and in the regions hit by natural disasters.
It is in that spirit that I would like to urge my fellow Members to approve the amendments and thus to ratify the agreement that has been reached. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has just been pointed out, our debate today concerns the regulation to put in place a mechanism for countries that are unable to produce the medicines that are essential for the public health of their citizens.
The fact that we are dealing with this question on the eve of World Aids Day should encourage us to send a loud and clear message to those countries so tragically affected.
The number of persons infected passed the 40 million mark this year and Sub-Saharan Africa is the most severely affected with two thirds of the world’s sufferers and three quarters of the world’s infected women.
It has been clear from the outset that Parliament has one priority, namely the rapid implementation of the regulation in question, so that countries in need can benefit from the flexibility offered by the WTO’s 30 August 2003 solution as soon as possible.
This is a first step in the European Union’s compliance with the spirit of the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and public health.
Several of our demands appear in the final text, in particular the widening of the scope to the least developed countries and certain developing countries that are not members of the WTO.
In view of the vital role that NGOs and certain international organisations play in the supply of health services and treatments, I am glad that they will be allowed to deal with patent holders directly in order to buy and distribute generic medicines.
I am also pleased to see that my proposal for a simplified procedure for additional quantities has been adopted.
I would have liked the rapporteur’s proposed 4% ceiling to be mandatory in all situations and not only in emergencies.
Indeed, only such an evaluation will enable us to draw adequate conclusions for effectively revising and adapting our response to the public health problems encountered by the countries of the South.
Meeting the challenge of access to medicines requires a more global approach and the regulation we are discussing today is only one stage in that.
Within the WTO, Europe must commit itself to ensuring that all the Doha Agreement’s public health advances are translated into reality.
The fight against Aids and, I must stress, many other diseases afflicting mainly the poorest populations is far from being won.
The forthcoming WTO conference in Hong Kong gives us an ideal opportunity to bring the question of access to medicines back to the centre of the debate.
This House goes beyond the Commission proposal in demanding the extension of compulsory licensing not only to needy WTO members, but also to over 40 other states equally in need of help.
While there is agreement across group boundaries that the group of eligible countries should be expanded as a political indication of willingness to help countries that are not members of the WTO, it is equally possible to find this objectionable.
I will be taking the liberty of asking the Council and the Commission, at regular intervals, how the figures stand and how many compulsory licences have been applied for, and I look forward to receiving accurate data in response.
The directive we are currently debating intends to ensure that people in the poorest countries can access the necessary medicines, namely that poor countries can, in special cases and under certain conditions, produce medicines at affordable prices, which is a good thing.
Needless to say, this regulation cannot totally eliminate all the problems surrounding medicines in developing countries.
This compromise makes it possible to transpose into EU law the WTO Decision in respect of TRIPs.
With the WTO Summit in Hong Kong on the horizon, this can send out a positive message, which will stand the EU in good stead, and so I should like to congratulate Mr Van Hecke on the result of negotiations with the Council and Commission.
Thirdly, the extension of applicants to NGOs and international organisations such as the United Nations: it is well known that many NGOs and international organisations play a major role in providing vital healthcare services in developing countries.
Their rapid involvement in fighting disease and poverty and eliminating human suffering, especially in disaster-stricken regions, is well established and in most instances it is more important and better coordinated than national government assistance efforts.
Let us recall that the TRIPs Agreement was adopted in 1994; the landmark Doha Declaration on TRIPs and public health was produced in 2001; the decision of the General Council of the WTO was taken in 2003 and this regulation will probably come into force in 2006.
I wonder whether such a delay may have been responsible for much confusion, inaction and probably unnecessary human suffering in the developing world. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, this is a matter of human rights – the right to survive – versus intellectual property rights – the right to be paid for something that one has produced.
Obviously, the right to life is more important than all other rights.
This represents the first step towards defending the right to life.
The compulsory licensing system is cumbersome – so much so as to make the provision of development aid and effective help in the fight against Aids epidemics impossible.
Even if the 30 August resolution softens the impact of the TRIPS Agreement on the health field, we still do not see the fundamental human right to health as being given priority.
It is for that reason that my group will find it difficult to vote in favour even of an improved development draft. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I really do have to quote a great man of letters and say, ‘alas, two souls dwell in my breast’.
It is for that reason that the WTO, as long ago as November 2001, decided that its member states could, in emergencies – and I emphasise, in emergencies – abrogate the international patent protection afforded to medicines.
Research and development creates jobs, and the work to be done in it can and must be funded by patent protection.
I therefore believe that the principle of patent protection for medicines must not be undermined.
We also have to know what is to be supplied to which countries and in what quantities, and we really do have to prevent cheap copies from finding their way back into Europe by being reimported.
Patents do not stand in the way of humanitarian action – the contrary is the case, for without them, innovative companies are unable to take on high levels of financial risk and invest billions in research and development.
The regulation, in fact, allows for the granting of licences, which are compulsory for export purposes, and provides that the conditions under which they are issued are identical in all the Member States of the European Union.
Although I am a committed supporter of this proposal, I must, however, point out that the measures contained in the proposal in question reduce the protection afforded to intellectual property rights.
It would therefore be reasonable to allow patent holders the opportunity to be involved in the procedure laid down for the granting of compulsory licences for the manufacture and sale of medicines intended for export to World Trade Organisation countries.
In particular, in the case of marketing authorisations, this procedure would allow the holders to enter the EU market in circumstances under which they would not otherwise be allowed to do so. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The report sets out our criteria for the assessment of candidates, including European commitment and the gender balance that is achieved across the whole team.
To achieve both greater clarity and coherence it is proposed that a joint meeting of the Conference of Committee Chairs and the Conference of Presidents should be charged with the task of declaring the hearings closed.
We assert our right to follow the same procedure should there be a casual vacancy from the Commission during its five-year mandate.
The hearings procedure is a political exercise used by the European Parliament to increase the democratic legitimacy of the Commission before Parliament.
As everybody knows, in May last year the President of the European Parliament and the President of the European Commission signed an extremely important document, consisting of the framework agreement on relations between Parliament and the Commission.
Three principles which must be applied during the hearings are very clearly detailed there: the principle of transparency and openness, the principle of fairness and the principle of consistency.
The first concerns the consultation of the Commission President-designate in the context of the hearings procedure.
The framework agreement explicitly provides that Parliament establish the framework agreement and arrange contact with the Commission President-designate, in good time and before the start of the approval procedure for the new Commission.
It also lays down that Parliament must take account of any comments made by the President-designate, as stated also in Parliament’s Rules of Procedure.
For this reason, recital E of Mr&#160;Duff’s report should be interpreted in the sense that the President of the Commission has to be consulted in good time, thereby giving him the opportunity to be heard, and for any comments he has to be accorded due consideration.
The second point concerns the replacement of a member of the College.
I personally am in favour of the principle, also set out in the framework agreement between Parliament and the Commission, according to which, in the case of a Commissioner being replaced during the College’s term of office, the relevant parliamentary committee has the right, as well as the duty, to meet and hear the new member of the Commission.
These are the considerations I wish to leave for the rapporteur, as confirmation of the highly positive approach both the Commission and I myself take to the views expressed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the Duff report is the starting point for Parliament’s ritual for approving the Commission, on account of the fact that the Rules of Procedure say almost nothing on the matter.
Parliament’s procedure for approving the Commission now has a framework of standards establishing greater fairness in the Commissioner-designate hearings in the parliamentary committees and greater consistency in the final assessment, which is currently overseen jointly by the Conference of Presidents and the Conference of Committee Chairs.
It therefore needs to be subject to intense scrutiny; it must lead to strong institutions and to leadership capable of taking a lead in pointing the way to the future.
That is essential to the political accountability of the system.
That is very important.
The hearings are a very visible part of the process of the appointment of the Commission, which underlines this principle of accountability.
It is now an accepted part of our procedure and one which is welcomed by all democrats.
Second, the report proposes that within Parliament we have a joint meeting of the Conference of Committee Chairs and the Conference of Presidents of this House to make a global evaluation prior to the debate in plenary and to declare the process of hearings closed.
The third innovation is to call for the European elections to be brought forward from June to May, to give more time for this procedure.
That is something we should be asking for anyway as a European Parliament, because ever since we enlarged the Union northwards it has been a bit silly to have our elections in June, which is the main holiday period in the northern countries.
What happened last time showed that it worked well and we are not asking for a right of censure on individual Commissioners.
What happened last time showed that there are ways and means of correcting queries about an individual Commissioner through the President of the Commission, whilst maintaining the collegiality of the Commission.
The report provides Parliament with an important array of instruments for the future, and spells out in more precise terms what its rights are when it comes to the choice of the Commission.
If, in future, Parliament acts in accordance with these guidelines, it will certainly benefit the credibility of both institutions in the eyes of the public. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It also gives us an opportunity to put an end to a recurrent conflict between the European institutions by clarifying the distribution of competences between the first and third pillars.
The case before the Court of Justice concerned an environmental protection directive that carried criminal penalties and was the subject of the Di Lello report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
One of the major consequences is therefore that the codecision procedure will apply in areas that were formerly the subject of unanimous voting with the European Parliament merely giving its opinion.
The judgment gives the European Parliament a deciding role and this strengthening of democratic control is a step forward for democracy as a whole.
The definition of such penalties should refer to Community provisions relating to the protection of fundamental rights.
I will therefore end with a specific question to the Commissioner: does the Commission also plan to review the framework decision on racism and xenophobia in this way? &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, it is a joyful evening, for I am delighted with what Commissioner Frattini has done, and I also very much endorse the document produced by the Commission – to which I am grateful – that describes the effects of the judgment of 13 December 2005.
Indeed, along with Mrs Roure and the Commission, I share the view that this pertains not only to environmental matters, but has repercussions in many more areas.
The Commission has produced a list of decisions that need adjusting – about which I will say something in a moment – but there is also an important decision underway that has been the subject of many debates, namely the decision on data retention.
I agree with the approach of both speeches and can promise that the Commission will make sure that this important decision by the European Court of Justice is applied in full, putting into practice its core principle, namely that when it is necessary to guarantee the effectiveness of Community regulations, criminal sanctions can be introduced by the Community legislator via the codecision procedure, and by that means only.
We have also proposed a means of extending this to other fields.
When, for example, a framework decision has already been handed down, one could, without altering the substance of the text, use an agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission to adopt the correct legal basis whilst avoiding having to open a discussion on the substance as well.
I promised that in early 2006 I would propose a new initiative on racism and xenophobia in order to overcome the obstruction that has occurred within the Council.
In such cases the Commission may also adopt proposals for criminal legislation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to begin by paying tribute to Mrs Roure and Mrs Buitenweg.
As you are aware, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was not keen for this debate to take place this evening.
It would therefore appear that the Court recognises that criminal law and the criminal justice system do not fall under the Community’s jurisdiction, but that this does not stop the Community legislature from adopting measures relating to criminal penalties in the Member States, provided that they are consistent and necessary in order to safeguard the efficacy of Community law.
The Committee on Legal Affairs heard your representatives, and we have now received the communication from the Commission, the substance of which we welcome along with that of the decision by the Court of Justice.
Unless, then, I am persuaded that there is a better way of doing it, I am in favour of this matter being dealt with through the normal legislative process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Council and the Member States argued before the Court, a teleological reading of the Treaties once again leads to the letter of them being overturned, not to say violated, especially Articles 135 and 280 of the EC Treaty and 29 of the EU Treaty, which clearly reserve criminal competence for the Member States.
Thus, without a treaty, without a mandate and against the wishes of the Member States and the Council, the Court of Justice and the Commission have agreed to use this judicial communitisation of criminal law to merge the pillars of competences within the Union.
On 23 November last, it added to criminal environmental law an initial list of nine new criminal competences it was unilaterally removing from the Member States.
I therefore want to say, quietly but solemnly, that those in this House who fail to respond to these shows of strength are committing an act against their governments, against their parliaments, against their constitutions, against the European treaties themselves and against the nations and are paving the way for renewed insurrections, not only electoral ones, against a Europe that is emphatically no longer their own. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion – which I think is shared by the vast majority of Parliament – the ruling of the European Court of Justice in Case C-0176 represents a success for the European Parliament, not only because the Court took up the suggestions made by Parliament in September 2003, based on a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs which I have the honour of chairing, but also because it has forced the Council to respect Articles 24, 29 and 47, which clearly state that the Treaty establishing the European Community has precedence over the Treaty on European Union.
For this reason, in the field of criminal sanctions, the Council will no longer be able to use Title VI to make unilateral decisions without the intervention of the European Parliament as colegislator.
I believe this to be a great advance and a great result which does credit to the European Union as a whole.
It seems clear that, without the intervention of Parliament, a fundamental principle of democracy, namely , would have been overlooked rather than reaffirmed.
The Court of Justice, whilst recognising, obviously, that the Community cannot establish criminal sanctions or achieve harmonisation of criminal law, has provided that – if criminal sanctions are essential to achieve the requirements or aims of the Treaty – the Community can oblige Member States to provide for them and apply them.
The European institutions are therefore called upon to carry out the ruling of the Court of Justice and – here I address myself particularly to the Commissioner – the European Commission has given certain indications as to how it will act.
Parliament must be able to intervene on substance if the legal basis provides that it is colegislator.
For the first time since King Henry VIII ended the jurisdiction of the Pope in ecclesiastical matters in England, a power other than the British Parliament will have the right to create laws and set the penalties for transgression.
The European Court of Justice is not a court of justice, it is an engine of political integration for the European Union.
The Commission has ruthlessly exploited the decision of the court in order to publish a list of nine new areas of competence, which gives it the right to create new laws and impose criminal penalties.
A Commission lawyer has stated that it could compel the British Government – and the British Parliament – to punish its citizens for something that was not a criminal offence in Britain.
If a British government were to refuse to implement these criminal offences, then it could be taken to the European Court of Justice, which would compel it to do so.
The decision by the so-called European Court of Justice is nothing less than a judicial .
The Court has seized power from the Member States and handed it to the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that was an interesting contribution from Mr Batten.
I will be very interested to hear what Mr Frattini would like to say on that particular point in his summing-up. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, from the speeches I have heard I deduce that this subject cannot be exhausted in the short interval of time set aside for this evening’s debate.
As has already been stated in several of your speeches – such as that of Mr&#160;Gargani – if it is necessary to change the substance of the measure, this is done by withdrawing the measure itself – for example, a framework decision – and replacing it with a proposal for a new directive, either on the legal basis, or on the substance, and thus applying the codecision procedure.
In such a case – if Parliament and the Council agree on the need to change only the legal basis, whilst upholding the content – I myself can see a second method, which consists not in withdrawing the proposal and replacing it with a new initiative, but rather in an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament and the Council, through which, quickly and inexpensively, it may be agreed to alter the legal basis and uphold the substance.
The present system can only be explained in an historic context.
EU shipping lines are faring well.
Four out of the top five world carriers are EU based.
As regulators, our duty is to ensure that the rules are in tune with market conditions.
The last twenty years have seen considerable changes in the liner market, with an increase in cooperative arrangements between shipping lines in the form of consortia and global alliances that do not include price-fixing.
The sector is important for the health of the economy as a whole.
Scheduled services in container transport account for approximately 40% of the EU-25’s external trade by sea in value terms.
Today, conferences are allowed to fix prices on all major shipping routes and these prices are generally assumed to act as a benchmark for prices on all shipping routes to and from the EU.
I welcome the work carried out by Parliament in reacting to the Commission’s White Paper of October 2004.
It means reliance on market mechanisms to determine price and capacity as in all other sectors of the economy.
We have carried out an extensive economic impact assessment: three independent studies were commissioned.
But even so, much of the industry now accepts that the future must be based on competition and that the days of special regimes are counted.
We are aware that liner conferences are tolerated in other jurisdictions and have engaged in bilateral contacts so as to ensure that our partners are aware of whatever changes are brought to our legislation.
Although the Commission is firmly convinced of the benefits of putting an end to the conference system, it is equally convinced of the need to give the industry sufficient time to adapt to a fully competitive market.
I believe that abolishing the conference system will make the application of competition rules to the maritime sector simpler, more cost effective and fairer.
I am confident that both the liner industry and its clients will reap the benefits. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, allow me to start by warmly thanking my honourable friends in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, whose comments and amendments enriched the report and the motion for a resolution on the review of the competition rules applied to maritime transport.
It gives us the opportunity to evaluate the current situation and to study the real challenges to European shipping in relation to the competitiveness of the European Union and the Lisbon objectives.
That is why the report which I am presenting to you takes account of the proposals in this White Paper and of the demands of the White Paper for transport and the trends emerging in the international environment.
The bone of contention on which my honourable friends focused their attention was scheduled services between ports in different Member States or between the European Union and third countries, especially the conference system.
Over all these years the conferences have safeguarded efficient services and price stability on the market, contributing to the development of European and international trade, to the good health – to use the Commissioner's expression – of the maritime industry, providing the opportunity – and this is important to us – for all sizes of shipping companies to participate.
There are clear tendencies to merge to create colossal companies which can impose their terms and conditions on trade and industry.
The top three European companies account for 35% of the world fleet, while at the same time new maritime powers have emerged, such as China, South Korea and Taiwan.
None of the studies presented by the European Commission convinces us that these fears are unfounded, nor have they convinced us of the important benefits which trade and industry might reap from the abolition of the regulation.
My proposal is that the European Commission should not propose the abolition of the regulation and should continue the dialogue with the interested parties, both carriers and shippers.
What you have said may well be true of firms like Maersk, the little outfit that has just bought up PNO, but what primarily interests me, and Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou too, is what happens to the small and medium-sized shipping lines whose situation is quite different from that of PNO, and have not been bought up by Maersk or by any of the other big players whom you might care to name.
It is our belief that Regulation (EEC) No 4056/86 cannot be deleted without being replaced.
Yes, of course, Commissioner, it must be adapted; that much is perfectly clear, and we all know it.
It has to be adapted, and the principal object of the exercise must be to do so in such a way that the small and medium-sized companies are enabled to reach agreements on technical matters and to exchange information in order to be able to see where they stand the best chance of succeeding on the world market.
A group calling itself the ‘European Liner Affairs Association’ has come up with some good proposals, which contain not only a markedly more limited exemption, but also unambiguous rules to protect small and medium-sized enterprises.
What we want is technical agreements that make it possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to survive in shark-filled waters, that is to say, alongside the big conglomerates and alliances.
If such discussion forums are facilitated, there really is a chance of our managing to keep the small and medium-sized shipping industry afloat.
This, Commissioner, is where we have to do something for European shipping! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Kratsa, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow Parliament will be voting on the contents of the White Paper.
I would like to thank Mrs Kratsa for the quality of her report and for her courtesy.
No one here disputes that healthy competition needs to be introduced into maritime transport, where most of the players are private operators.
That would be to overlook the changes that have taken place in the last few years and to deny the benefits of the present system.
Having said that, the present system can still be improved.
On the other hand, it seems to us dangerous to repeal Regulation 4056/86 without proposing even a provisional replacement.
Reducing the number of operators could have a negative effect on services to some ports and on prices.
That is the message that Parliament should be sending to the European Commission and the Council with this report.
Despite it being a majority, it is striking how many Members abstained from the vote; 20 voted in favour, 7 against and there were no fewer than 19 abstentions.
I would therefore beg to differ with the previous speakers.
Article 81 of the Treaty stipulates that cooperatives that distort the market are not compatible with Community law.
Paragraph 3 of the same article formulates, however, a number of exceptions which must be met in order to allow those cooperatives to go ahead after all.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe supports the Commission in this, and our Amendment 10, among others, is evidence of this.
In paragraph 9, the rapporteur flags that the four cumulative conditions of Article 81(3) are only partly being met.
At the same time, the rapporteur calls for the enforcement of a cooperative.
Nevertheless, the Commission has taken this on board and commissioned a study, among other things, to clarify the impact on the so-called smaller businesses.
The repeal of the regulation leads to lower transport prices and better service, and smaller shipping companies have not experienced any drawbacks.
However, if Amendment 17 is anything to go by, both the Group of the European People’s Party and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament remain unconvinced.
The objective of this review, as indeed that of the Lisbon Strategy, is to create a competitive climate in which the sector can operate as efficiently and effectively as possible.
It has never been the intention to protect the sector on the basis of improper arguments.
Finally, unlike the rapporteur, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, I wholeheartedly endorse Commissioner McCreevy’s conclusions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports a more consistent application of the EU’s competition rules.
It is not with that kind of price regulation that we are concerned in this case.
That they are doing this is obvious, and we can also see who is involved.
The Verts/ALE Group supports the Commission or, to be more precise, that part of the Commission that is present in this Chamber, against the Transport DG, and we very much hope that the most important amendments will go through.
If Amendments 3 and 12 are adopted, the Verts/ALE Group will be able to support the report.
Otherwise, we shall, emphatically, not be able to. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, shipping conferences were created as a form of union for better cooperation between liner companies in a bid to control the profitable sector of maritime transport.
Today, the same monopoly business groups are calling for a change to Regulation 4056/86 and the European Commission also agrees with this approach, repeating the same argument, namely that these changes are necessary in order to provide users with cheaper services.
Typical examples are a European-owned shipping company which operates 550 ships and an Asian-owned company which operates 112 ships.
This sector was excluded from certain provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community by means of a Council Regulation.
I would note that our work and deliberations on this report, which focuses on Regulation (EEC) No&#160;4056/86, are concerned with issues that have been dealt with in a separate legal opinion drafted in November&#160;2005 at the request of the European Commission.
I should also like to alert Members to another important point, namely that any changes in this sector could have an adverse impact, especially on small and medium-sized shipping lines. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all those who consider it useful to review, but not abolish, Council Regulation (EEC) No&#160;4056/86, whilst hoping that the aim of this revision will be to guarantee efficiency of services, adequate time frames, precise deadlines and freight rates in line with administration costs.
As has already been said, the exemption for liner conferences has traditionally given balance to the maritime sector, but it is also true that the decline in conferences has been made obvious by the figures on individual shipments – the 1994 law – and by the appearance of effective and independent major carriers.
It is clear that the introduction of competition in the liner shipping sector constitutes a major change.
Such a change is positive not only for shippers, the consumers of liner shipping services, but also for the liner shipping industry itself.
This means the exchange of information between carriers, but not such as to allow collusion.
On this basis, I believe we can find a fair and reasonable way forward to the benefit of liner carriers and of the EU economy as a whole, and one which all participants in the market can support. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Toia, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on European Electronic Communications Regulation and Markets 2004 (2005/2052(INI)) (A6-0305/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are about to have this evening takes its context from the next review of the regulatory framework.
In other words, we need to ask if we should give greater freedom to operators – as certain people wish, especially for the new markets – or instead maintain the regulated services.
We need, therefore, to focus upon this strategic, high-investment sector – given that it requires infrastructure, research and constant innovation – and create a market for it that is open to new operators, with the widest possible choice for consumers and with the principle of access to networks as a key feature.
At the same time, however, we must avoid penalising operators that are already securely entrenched in the market, and we must effectively compete with the giants of the markets outside Europe.
The Commission report describes a situation that varies greatly from country to country, and that constitutes a weak point in a market that is truly integrated at a European level.
We must be aware therefore that there is still a great deal to be done as regards implementing the current regulatory framework before we change it.
This is an important point, Mr&#160;President, because it is impossible to implement this legislation, which requires flexibility and often intervention to prevent dominant positions in the market, without the system as a whole working.
It is difficult to bring in legislation if all the operators have not done their part beforehand in intervening at an institutional level to guarantee market transparency.
It is necessary to strengthen the role of the Commission, to clarify and precisely define the role of the European regulators and to ask the Member States, whilst also involving Parliament, to guarantee the establishment of authorities that are genuinely independent and authoritative, as well as capable and in a position to work in a tireless and entirely transparent way, which is essential.
We ask the Commission to draw up, at regular intervals, a report that provides, for the Commission as well, the clearest possible analysis of all the operators’ billing parameters as well as contract guarantees and price trends, in order to keep Parliament informed and provide it with a more front-line role.
I conclude with the central importance of the user and the consumer.
The question of roaming is crucial: we appreciate what the Commission and the European Regulators Group are doing but we ask for something more, which appears in our document to the Commission specifically on roaming.
It is very encouraging to see that Parliament shares the Commission’s policy priorities and concerns as regards implementation of the regulatory framework for electronic communications.
This support is important, especially when we have to make difficult or unpleasant decisions with regard to Member States.
Our regulatory framework, which has been in place since 2003, establishes conditions for competition, investment, growth and jobs, while guaranteeing basic consumer rights.
Our objective has been and will continue to be a single market with choice, quality and low prices for all European businesses and consumers.
We maintain a constant dialogue with the European Regulators Group and the national regulatory authorities, in the context of the monitoring of this market.
Although some objectives have not yet fully been achieved, I can assure you that progress has been made since last year and this will certainly be reflected in the 11th implementation report which we are currently preparing.
I would now like to answer the specific requests made by the European Parliament.
In the same way, broadband access and ways to reduce the digital divide are key priorities and will remain so under the i-2010 action plan.
In relation to the issue of transparency for consumers, we have set up a website with information on roaming prices in the Member States.
The ERG is an advisory body and a good forum for national regulators to exchange views and experiences.
I would like to assure Parliament that the Commission will remain vigilant to ensure that measures relating to national markets do not jeopardise the completion of the single market in electronic communications.
We will continue to monitor Member States’ activities relating to the regulatory framework, and will submit an annual implementation report, which will be adopted by the Commission in February 2006.
That debate has already started, and will go on until the first half of 2006.
In the summer, the Commission will publish a communication with the conclusions of the debate and will make concrete proposals by the end of 2006.
When fully implemented, the EU regulatory framework for electronic communications will enable innovative services with competitive prices to develop on a level playing field throughout the internal market.
This success has been demonstrated by a decrease in prices and an increase in services in the electronic communications field.
However, the regulatory framework has also encountered problems, owing to its slow implementation in many Member States.
On the one hand, these problems are reflected in numerous ongoing infringement procedures that the Commission has initiated against Member States who fail to transpose parts of the framework.
On the other hand, some Member States’ national regulatory authorities might even have done too much.
In some Member States over-regulation has led to draconian competition where no operator generates any revenues.
The Commission should continue efficient monitoring of the implementation of the whole electronic communications framework and it should be completed within the shortest time possible.
I wish to extend my sincere thanks for the excellent work done by Mrs&#160;Toia, with whom I agree that the information and communications technology sector is enormously relevant both for the Community economy and for individual countries, given the notable contribution it makes to employment growth and the development of new technologies to improve and speed up communications.
European legislation is required to regulate the relationship between producer and user and to guarantee that digital technology is available to all, that governments invest more in infrastructure and, above all, that free and fair competition is maintained, thus ensuring better quality services at more and more favourable prices.
The report addresses five thematic areas.
First: the improvement of international roaming services, with a reduction in tariffs and greater transparency in billing and the drawing up of contracts.
Third: an increase in the number of power lines so that broadband connection is available to all, without territorial limits and in the shortest time possible.
Finally I wish to congratulate Mr&#160;Reading on the work he is and will be doing in his report on research, which has the full support of the PPE-DE. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I want to congratulate Mrs Toia on the quality of her report and to thank her for working with the shadow rapporteurs and accepting our proposed amendments.
I would like to mention some essential points.
Such a single market is necessary in order to reduce the digital divide, which is a priority aim for the European Union.
However, this transition to a new framework for the regulation and supply of electronic communications must respect the public and consumers by bringing the transparency and security necessary for the proper use of telecommunications.
This means transparency on questions of safety and public health, especially radiation measurement; it also means a correctly regulated market, which is the only way to guarantee fair service and pricing conditions.
On 7 December, the single Internet address .eu will be launched for businesses.
But has the world actually become better in 2004, in the period reviewed by the report, and will it be better in the future as a result of the development of electronic communications?
The answer is nowhere near as favourable as the effects mentioned above.
However, one of the most important objectives of our Parliament is to change the current situation, which is also our duty in the spirit of consumer protection.
The consequence is that the internal market for electronic communications is not developing, the necessary competition is not evolving everywhere and consumers are not being offered the range of services they need, services for which there should be fierce competition.
The services are therefore not cheap enough.
Businesses are therefore in unequal positions among the Member States.
It is true that the regulatory framework is being applied very unevenly.
Competition, too, is operating according to very different national systems that are often inadequate.
Moreover, the regulators are helping me over the prices of roaming, which are very high.
That is what we have done with the setting up of an Internet site for comparing prices in our Member States and since that site has been up it has been visited by thousands of consumers every day.
Since it has been up, too, we have noticed many prices falling in many countries.
The very important report before us today is Parliament’s first contribution.
I am looking forward to other debates, other proposals from Parliament as from the main interested parties, and starting in the spring I shall be making a summary of those analyses, suggestions and proposals so that we can then go on to discuss a possible reform of the regulatory framework, adapting it to developing technologies and fine tuning it to the very different situations in the various Member States. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
