Report on the ECB annual report for 2007 (debate) The next item is the report by Olle Schmidt on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the ECB annual report for 2007.
I am convinced that last week's interest rate rise was the right decision.
The security and stability which it has brought to the euro zone and the Union as a whole, including my country, and even to the global economy are something no one could have dreamt of.
The ECB should give an account of the discussion between Members of the Governing Council when decisions are taken on the interest base rate in order to increase transparency and enhance predictability.
Giving the market better information on the ECB's interest rate decisions has long been crucial to Parliament, as is also the publication of the minutes and voting outcome.
The enlargement of the euro zone gives the monetary area more weight, but at the same time poses several challenges, since decision-making becomes more unwieldy and differences in economic development between the members increase.
The combined efforts of the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England have contributed extensively to keeping the financial system afloat, but they have not resolved the crisis.
This has also made clear the need for better cooperation between central banks and other institutions.
The common monetary policy and the ECB will face great challenges in forthcoming years.
Despite these developments, the euro-area economy continued to expand at solid rates in 2007, with annual real GDP growing by 2.7%.
Unemployment rates and labour force participation have increased significantly in recent years, and unemployment rates have fallen to levels not seen for 25 years.
That being said, the uncertainty surrounding this outlook for growth remains high, with downside risks mainly relating to further unanticipated increases in commodity prices, possible further spillovers from continuing tensions in financial markets to the real economy and increasing protectionist tendencies.
Turning to price developments, in 2007 average annual HICP inflation in the euro area was 2.1%, slightly above the ECB's definition of price stability.
Risks to price stability over the medium term remain clearly on the upside in 2007 and have intensified over recent months.
These risks include possible further rises in commodity prices and unanticipated increases in indirect taxes and administered prices.
First signs are already emerging in some regions of the euro area.
As in 2007, the monetary analysis in the first half of 2008 has continued to confirm the prevailing upside risks to price stability at medium to longer horizons.
In line with our monetary policy strategy, we take the view that the sustained underlying strength of monetary and credit expansion in the euro area over the past few years has created upside risks to price stability.
To contain prevailing upside risks to price stability over the medium term, the Governing Council further adjusted the monetary policy stance in March and June 2007.
After a period of unusually high uncertainty in the context of the financial-market correction, in July 2008 the Governing Council has brought the minimum bid rate in the euro system's main refinancing operations to 4.25%.
This action underlines the Governing Council's strong determination to prevent second-round effects and maintain longer-term inflation expectations firmly anchored in line with price stability.
This is the contribution of the ECB's monetary policy to preserving purchasing power over the medium term and supporting sustainable growth and employment in the euro area.
Following last week's decision to raise rates, in the Governing Council's current assessment the monetary policy stance will contribute to achieving price stability over the medium term.
On the monetary policy strategy, I would like to start by welcoming the positive assessment made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the ECB monetary policy strategy.
Such a measure would draw attention to individual positions when, in a euro area of 15 and very soon 16 countries, what counts is the position of the collegial decision-maker, the Governing Council, the college.
It is of crucial importance to further exploit the potential of the Lamfalussy framework.
The Ecofin Council has agreed on certain measures to that end, and attention should now shift towards implementing those orientations.
Central banks may need supervisory information for the effective performance of their functions in the management of the crisis.
We noted with satisfaction the positive assessments in the draft resolution about SEPA and TARGET2.
It is important to note that all major CSDs have responded positively to our initiative.
This consensus, this broad convergence of views relates in particular to the operations and activities of the Central Bank, which, as always, is overwhelmed by the compliments of your Parliament and the governments I am representing here.
Thus the Eurogroup governments have undertaken, firstly, to make every effort to ensure, in the wage restraint we need, that wages and the public sector do not get out of control.
No one can talk about inflation and price stability without mentioning the independence of the Central Bank, as your rapporteur has, in both his written and his oral reports.
I wanted to point out once again that the independence of the Central Bank is a fundamental principle of Economic and Monetary Union, that the independence of the Central Bank is part of the Pact on which Economic and Monetary Union is founded, that, in the work leading up to the constitutional treaty and the subsequent reforming Treaty of Lisbon, no government suggested even so much as a minor change to the general terms of reference of Central Bank, which focus on price stability.
As far as exchange policy is concerned, I have noticed a slight ambiguity in the report by Mr Schmidt, in that it gives the impression that exchange policy is the sole, if not the exclusive, province of the Central Bank.
I am quite happy for the Central Bank to play a leading role in any areas to do with exchange, but even so I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Treaty that assign shared powers to the Bank and governments for exchange policy.
Thus, as part of this regular dialogue, Mr Trichet and I went to China last November to discuss exchange policy with the Chinese authorities, and we shall be doing so again in the latter half of this year.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Welcome to the two Jean-Claudes, President Trichet and President Juncker! (DE) On 2 June we had a major celebration in Frankfurt am Main, the city where the D-mark and the euro were introduced - ten years of European Economic and Monetary Union.
I think that ECB decisions are generally transparent, based on a good flow of information and open objectives.
In the monetary dialogue the ECB regularly reports to us in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on financial policy decisions.
However, the discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs could obviously not fail to analyse the future challenges to the European Union's monetary policy and its regulators.
With regard to the remit of the European Central Bank (ECB), as provided for by the Treaties, we have to recognise the value of its work in 2007.
Although it was unable to avoid monetary turbulence and the consequent crisis in economic growth that we are living through, it succeeded in mitigating many of the negative consequences of the current situation.
It is unacceptable to defend non-compliance with the rules in force, and we must contribute to the policy debate by developing proposals that seek to change the current situation.
Independently of all this, which is already rather a lot, we also need to understand we are facing a difficult economic and social crisis, the extent of which we do not yet know.
This is certainly not the end of the world and much less the end of History.
Therefore, in those circumstances, I welcome the fact that the Central Bank proved itself through its interest decisions last week.
I would like to see closer cooperation not just between the Central Banks but also between the Central Bank and the supervisory authorities.
The euro area has a single monetary policy, but each of its sixteen countries has its own economic policy.
With inflation in the euro area at 4%, the latest interest rate hike by the European Central Bank means that the real interest rate is 0.25%.
This then results in a growing number of risks that may potentially harm not just supplier and consumer groups but also the economies of entire nations.
Consequently, there is a need to set up a wider EU framework for financial supervision and to involve the European Central Bank more closely in supervision to solve any problems in the financial system.
The Central Bank and monetary policy are responsible for ensuring price stability, public accounts need to be balanced in the medium term and the other policies need to create economic growth and growth in employment.
I would like to add a few words in terms of prices.
In these circumstances therefore - and I am addressing my remarks both to Mr Trichet and to Mr Juncker, since Mr Juncker rightly draws attention to the competencies of the Eurogroup and ECOFIN in this area, but they never come to this committee or to Parliament - is not the fundamental issue at the moment the exchange rate ratio, the buying of oil supplies in euros and the ability of the European Union, particularly its euro zone, to speak with one voice, so that, ten years after changing to the euro, we can at last contribute to a coordinated and responsible dialogue between the main world currencies to secure the best exchange rate for our growth? (LT) May I point out that during our term of office the European Central Bank, thanks to its impressive work, has risen from being just one of the world's many central banks into the world leader in central banking.
However, this pressure could be overcome by our monetary policy, which would be more taxing on our economy.
This could be done through our increased participation in the International Monetary Fund and communication with the World Bank.
Despite the European Central Bank's substantial input into the implementation of SEPA and the development of the TARGET 2 security system, the problem is yet more complicated than that. (PL) Mr President, the annual report of the European Central Bank does not, it appears, speak of a certain tendency that has developed in recent years.
Whereas up to now one could speak of the European bank in Frankfurt acting with real independence, in recent times we have seen attempts by the largest European Union countries to put pressure on the ECB and to influence its decisions.
Countries such as France or Germany are given the right to put pressure on the ECB but, when it comes to smaller countries, the principle of the independence of the European Central Bank from the governments of European Union Member States is adhered to very strictly.
Let me say at the outset that some Member States are in, or near to, recession, and we must ask ourselves what is the most important thing we can do in those circumstances.
Let us look at the situation between 1990 and 1998 when, in what is now the euro area, five million jobs were created.
However, I would like to make a comment on the strength of the euro.
The rate rise, while targeting inflation, may present further risks to the euro exchange rate and impede economic growth potential in a time of economic uncertainty.
In the moments that are left to me, let me say that last year I was rapporteur for the Report on the ECB annual report and I pointed out then that there were EUR 223 billion in EUR 500 denominations - that is 446 million notes!
The ECB's role as liquidity provider of last resort and market maker of last resort has been emphasised in the report and I share this view.
I would also like to ask your opinion about what happens now, also from the market, in the sphere of derivatives and the over-the-counter market in order to create more central counterparties and a better system of supervision there.
The current inflation rates in Europe are tormenting policymakers and citizens.
The inflation rate in the euro area is at its highest level for 10 years.
The ECB has to fight inflation tenaciously, and anchoring inflation expectations is key in this regard.
More economic divergence in the euro area, which would not foster a good climate for the European Central Bank's moves.
In addition, when markets are increasingly global, what the European Central Bank does has to be examined in relation to what other major counterparts do.
The euro and the European Central Bank do not, it is true, make us independent of global influences, but they make us much more able to deal with them.
I should therefore like to thank the European Central Bank for the steady and level-headed policy, because at a time when trust is being lost it is undoubtedly one of those that are gaining trust.
For that reason we have to do everything possible to improve awareness and do away with the information deficit.
There is no general awareness of the connection between inflation, interest rates and price stability.
I also welcome the fact that the cooperation between the European Central Bank, the Commission and the financial services sector has contributed to the successful launch of SEPA, cross-border payments.
The predominant view, in this House in particular, is that the ECB has sole and absolute competence for exchange rate trends.
In other words, the euro zone has indeed equipped itself with the means to decide democratically on its exchange policy.
Clearly the European Central Bank and its President, Mr Trichet, take the Bank's mandate and the Maastricht criteria seriously.
The crisis in the banking sector has been a wake-up call.
The European Central Bank can play a crucial role here, because it is well briefed by the central banks of the Member States.
I believe we need closer cooperation between the central banks and the European Central Bank, financial markets and regulatory authorities.
The European Central Bank should play a greater part in scrutiny and oversight.
We have noted that the average inflation rate in the euro zone is 4%.
Therefore the signal - the European Central Bank decision - sent out this week is important.
We are constantly coming across that in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and it has also been made clear in this debate.
I think the Bank has to decide for itself and, of course, in consultation with Parliament and euro zone representatives.
We should - and this will undoubtedly play a part in the next round - reconsider very carefully when extending the euro zone whether we can continue with this policy.
According to Article 105 of the EC Treaty, the ECB shall also support the general economic policies in the Community.
To conclude, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for the balanced and highly professional report assessing the ECB annual report. (EL) Madam President, I listened very carefully to the speeches by the President of the Central Bank and by Jean-Claude Juncker, for whom I have considerable respect.
Finally, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his truly exceptional report. (PT) Madam President, it is clear from this debate that the alleged fight against inflation is limited to restricting pay rises.
In order to justify the ninth increase in the European Central Bank base rate in two and a half years, European Union monetary policy managers only talk about the need for pay restraint and ignore the scandalous increase in the profits made by big companies and economic and financial groups, which are about 30% per year, while pay rises in some countries do not even cover the rate of inflation.
As a member of the European Parliament, I appreciate the competence and integrity of the European Central Bank's monetary policies and its President's determination to stay on the inflation target characterising the measure of price stability.
I express my confidence in the good judgment of the European Central Bank, in the integrity and independence of the European Central Bank and the politicians' reserve to interfere with this bank's decisions. (EL) Madam President, the Eurogroup formulates economic policy, the European Central Bank formulates monetary policy and we, here in the European Parliament, just do politics, without any other additional definitions, and this obliges us to be accountable for the full range of decisions made in the euro area.
If we look at the D-mark period of 1948 to 1998, the price stability track record of the ECB is actually better than that of the D-mark, which used to be the global benchmark.
But I am also equally happy that you, President Trichet, referred to financial stability.
Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa's 'twin peaks' model is very enchanting, and I think that it is now up to the Member States and the Council to take this model, to have more of a role in the ECB for financial stability supervision.
It has a lot of good points which you can also use in your work when we try to deliver better financial stability supervision in Europe. (PL) Mr President, the economic and financial functioning of the EU creates real stability for growth.
Member States and their governments are responsible for economic policy and for creating new jobs.
Secondly, how to support growth in poor countries?
Finally, at this point it should also be clearly stated that compliance with the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact must be equally binding on all Member States.
President of the European Central Bank. - Madam President, I appreciate enormously the remarks that have been made both in the remarkable report of the rapporteur and in the very large number of interventions which echo the independence of the Central Bank, as mentioned very clearly by Mr Jean-Claude Juncker himself.
I strongly emphasised the point that anchoring inflation expectations is absolutely decisive, because it permits us to continue to have, in the medium- and long-term market rates, the incorporation of these inflation expectations over the medium and long run.
Some governments in Europe are borrowing on a 50-year basis.
They are borrowing on a 50-year basis at rates which incorporate the credibility of the Central Bank to deliver price stability, not only over two, or five or ten or twenty years, but even much longer.
I have to say that it is very much considered now at global level that the appropriate way of looking at things is that through price stability and credible price stability over time you are paving the way for sustainable growth and job creation.
The mention of the almost 16 million jobs which were created since the setting-up of the euro is an illustration of what I just said.
But we always insist on the Stability and Growth Pact because over-burdening of monetary policies through a lax fiscal policy is always a danger.
We are also calling on the price-setters in general - corporate businesses, the production sector, retail businesses - to incorporate the fact that we will deliver price stability over the medium term so that we do not have second-round effects in this domain.
I also mention of course social partners and that is the reason why we are calling strongly not only on price-setters, but also on social partners to incorporate in their decisions the fact that we will deliver price stability in line with our definition in the medium run.
Therefore, there is much at stake here in this domain and that is important.
I would also like to mention here, because it seems to me an extremely important element, that it is the most vulnerable and the poorest of our fellow citizens who suffer the most in times of lasting high-level inflation.
Therefore, when we are aiming at delivering price stability in the medium run, not only do we respect the Treaty, not only do we respect the mandate - which we did not create ourselves but which was given to us by the democracies of Europe - but we are doing what is best for the most vulnerable of our fellow citizens.
Then, I think we have to look very carefully at the proposals before us, because we believe that the more intimately we cooperate - and more intimately than is the case today - the better, certainly, for Europe.
My last point concerns the exchange rate, which a number of Members mentioned.
It seems to me that when we are in China, as Jean-Claude Juncker said, or when we are in the G7, where Jean-Claude and I are signing the communiqué of the G7, we are doing what is appropriate and if I am myself cautious - because it was mentioned that I am very prudent and very cautious when I speak on exchange rates - it is because we are in a domain which is extraordinarily touchy and a domain where, in my opinion, one has to fully respect the orientation which we have agreed upon.
That is the reason why I would say that, again, at this stage we agree with all the partners of the G7 on the message for China.
I should like to make two or three final comments, because sometimes the debates in this House seem to be full of nostalgia for the 1970s and 1980s.
The Eurogroup is urged to coordinate the economic policy of the euro Member States better.
We are all trying our best to do that and we have now introduced a code of conduct in many areas of practical economic policy, which we are endeavouring to follow.
To strengthen the preventive part of the Stability Pact, it is essential for governments to maintain budget consolidation and redouble their consolidation efforts when the economy is going well, in order to build up reserves for less favourable years, which, in the normal cyclical pattern of our economic systems, will occur regularly.
When we in the Eurogroup agree that Member States that have achieved their medium-term financial target can now also act on the current economic downturn and rising oil and food prices, they can only do that because they have in the past worked out the budgetary margins that are necessary, so that they are not weakened and incapable of reacting in times of crisis.
We have not called for a wage freeze; neither the Central Bank nor the Eurogroup has ever called for a wage freeze in the euro zone.
They just collect the money, and their actions are not economically sound or socially responsible. (Applause) Because we did not order a wage freeze, because I, more than others, am perhaps very much intent on keeping the social contract aspect of European action in mind, we have strongly urged that, instead of letting firms pay, in the light of rising raw materials and oil prices, we must consider what States can do in the field of social support for the less well-off sectors of the population, in view of the weakened purchasing power.
The result was mass unemployment in Europe, which we have now brought down to 7.2% with - and thanks to - the euro.
The result was that we had excessive social security contributions in nearly all our countries, which many of us still consider too high, and that is not to do with a rejection of social solidarity, but with sensible financing of our social security systems.
We are against inflation, because we are against unemployment and for growth.
Growth and combating inflation are not antonyms.
While moderating, growth in the world economy is expected to remain resilient, benefiting in particular from continued robust growth in emerging economies.
With regard to price developments, annual HICP inflation has remained well above the level consistent with price stability since last autumn, reaching 3.7% in May 2008 and - according to Eurostat's flash estimate - 4.0% in June.
This worrying level of inflation rates results largely from sharp increases in energy and food prices at the global level in recent months.
The uncertainty surrounding this outlook for economic activity remains high and downside risks prevail.
In particular, risks stem from the dampening impact on consumption and investment of further unanticipated increases in energy and food prices.
In these circumstances the decision taken by the ECB to raise by 25 basis points to 4.25% the minimum bid rate on the main refinancing operations of the Eurosystem is welcome and should be congratulated!
