rapporteur. - Madam President, this energy package is the culmination of years of hard work in which Parliament can be very proud of the changes that will now be put in place.
The Electricity Directive, for which I was rapporteur, is part of a package of five measures which seeks improvements in the way the electricity and gas markets work across the continent, to ensure that the markets are better integrated and operate in a fairer and less discriminatory way.
This legislation will also ensure that every household in the EU will be fitted with so-called 'smart meters' by 2022.
I would like to ask Commissioner Piebalgs if he will now make a commitment that, in future, the energy framework of the EU, in addition to addressing security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness, will also now add a fourth leg - that of affordability - to all future energy policy proposals.
An EU-backed report has recently concluded that up to 125 million citizens are affected by energy poverty.
My objective has been to create an agency with greater independence and decision-making powers.
However, with greater power there should be greater accountability and transparency.
I would like to thank our fellow rapporteurs, the other two institutions and the Commissioner in particular for their hard and constructive work in achieving the final compromise package.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I would like to start by sincerely thanking the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, Commissioner Piebalgs and Ambassador Reinišová for the excellent cooperation during the first three months of this year.
Negotiations have been long, complex and sometimes tough, but I think we have managed to get an agreement that is satisfactory to all parties.
The agreed text also enhances the role of the Agency for the Cooperation of European Regulators in this process, in line with the first reading in the European Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Czech Presidency, the Commission, Mrs Niebler, as the Chairman of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, my fellow rapporteurs on this energy package, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee's secretariat, including all its officials, for their cooperation and for the skill they have displayed in working on this issue.
The ITO system is the true innovation in this package and it is the area where the European Parliament can be said to have achieved the best outcome.
The new Gas Directive attributes much importance to the gas authorities and to the agency.
In my view, it is, in fact, European citizens that will really benefit from this directive, since with the use of smart meters they will have access to all the information relating to their bills and will be able to assess the best offer on the market and to choose their supplier on the basis of the best price, because while it is true that it will take some years to see the effects of this liberalisation, nonetheless it cannot be denied that the entry of new operators onto the market will lead to a fall in prices and to more favourable market conditions for EU citizens.
Another important element is the recognition of European transmission network systems that will provide gas supply security to European citizens.
The successful outcome on this Gas Directive and the energy package as a whole once more highlights the role of Europe and its institutions in acting for European citizens.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to express how pleased I am that agreement was reached between the European Parliament and the Council on the Third Energy Package, including the regulation on conditions for access to the gas transmission networks, for which I am the rapporteur.
I would like to mention the contribution made by the Czech Presidency and the active support from the European Commission in finding common solutions.
In terms of access to the gas transmission networks, the Third Energy Package's objectives have been achieved.
I would especially like to thank those who participated in the negotiations for supporting the proposals which I drew up on the 10-year investment plan and the development of regional cooperation initiatives.
Madam President, 2009 started with disruption to gas supplies for Bulgaria and Slovenia, along with a sharp reduction in volumes for other countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
Surely, it makes no sense to impose new legislation on a sector that is particularly badly affected by the crisis in the car sector if this would involve extra outlay and red tape.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, buildings are responsible for consuming 40% of primary energy and for creating 40% of greenhouse gas emissions.
However, boosting the energy performance of buildings also offers huge potential for the EU's economic recovery through the creation of more than 250 000 new jobs, through the investments required to promote renewable energy resources and energy-efficient buildings and, last but not least, through improving the quality of life of Europe's citizens by reducing the cost of their utility bills.
The new Commission proposal for amending the existing directive stipulates removing the 1 000 m2 limit, setting certain minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and introducing a process for converging the minimum requirements established at national level, promoting buildings which produce locally a quantity of renewable energy equivalent to the primary energy consumed, and only financing from public funds the construction of buildings which comply with the minimum energy performance requirements.
Parliament has introduced the following important amendments: extending the directive's scope to include centralised heating and cooling systems, increasing the role of and standardising the format for energy performance certificates for buildings, devising a common methodology for defining minimum energy performance requirements, implementing in the case of public institutions recommendations contained in the energy performance certificate during its period of validity, new provisions on providing information to consumers and training to auditors and experts, as well as granting from 2019 construction permits for buildings which produce renewable energy locally in a quantity at least equivalent to the energy produced from conventional sources, along with introducing new provisions for inspecting heating or cooling systems.
Although the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive has been in force since 2002, its implementation in the various Member States has not been satisfactory.
This is why the European Parliament proposed the funding of measures for the energy performance of buildings from the European Regional Development Fund, the creation of a European Fund for Energy Performance of buildings and the promotion of renewable energy sources through the contribution of the EIB, the European Commission and Member States, the possibility of using a low VAT rate for services and products relating to the energy performance of buildings, the development of national programmes which help boost the energy efficiency of buildings by adopting financial instruments and certain specific fiscal measures.
Last but not least, I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the technical staff from the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the CFSP staff from the latter committee with whom I have worked outstandingly well.
I also would like to thank Mrs Niebler who worked really hard to let us come to this report in a very limited amount of time.
The tool to achieve this goal is the third internal energy market package for gas and electricity.
This legislation will also ensure greater transparency, thereby guaranteeing equal access to information, making pricing more transparent, increasing trust in the market, and helping to avoid any possible manipulation or any sort of manipulation of the market.
The powers and independence of national regulators have been strengthened, as well as the powers of the agency, and the rules on effective unbundling have been made more efficient.
The combined impact of this proposal together with the type-approval legislation on tyres should bring around 5% fuel savings on the total EU fleet by 2020.
I would like to thank all those involved and particularly all Members of the European Parliament that supported this.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Morgan for her report on the electricity markets.
It is by opening up the markets that we can do something about climate change and can make the best use of renewables and nuclear power.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, the third energy package is about harnessing the sector with the aim of providing more security and transparency, as well as sustainable and affordable energy for all European citizens and enterprises.
It is about avoiding market distortions, especially between those countries which produce cheaply and those countries which wish to buy cheaply, which are not necessarily the same.
I do perhaps have one regret concerning the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators: our wish would have been to create a strong, independent agency that is capable of taking decisions without the support of our body.
The security of supply, the fight against climate change, the regulation of markets: all of these objectives should be pursued with a pragmatic, not dogmatic, approach.
I am grateful to my fellow Members, to our commissioner and to the Council for this constructive effort.
Madam President, Commissioner, speaking in this debate on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I would like to draw attention to four points.
Fourthly and finally, also worthy of special notice are the solutions which have a social dimension, requiring Member States to give assistance to electricity and gas consumers who cannot afford to pay their bills.
We will end up with 10 mega-players who do not have any interest in either an environmental agenda or a consumer agenda.
However, let us be realistic.
Personally, I would like to speak mainly about the document presented by Mr Chichester on establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators.
This is very important for small EU Member States.
In this context I am pleased that my efforts have not been in vain and I consider this a success for the Czech Presidency.
However, today we have a result that we can be proud of and that is constructive and discriminating, because the matter is complicated and there is no simple answer to it.
The data and facts are now already much more diverse and we have already made significant progress, but what we are about to adopt now will take us another step further. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said in a smaller round that this debate on the energy package is not necessarily an issue of black or red, left or right.
Unfortunately, action taken to date in this area has not been transparent and convincing, which may produce unfavourable results for citizens and the economy over the next 15 years. (PL) Madam President, the third energy package was intended first and foremost to serve customers in our continent, and this has been achieved - the customer is the most important.
Creation of a common market for energy is becoming a fact, and the principle of solidarity is today in evidence.
However, from now on we must ensure that conditions in the European market for investors from third countries are the same, and not better, as for investors from Member States, and that our energy concerns can compete on a mutual basis and invest freely outside the European Union.
I would like to stress that the third package is a major political event, not only a technical and economic one, and we really should recognise it as a great success of the European Union. (DE) Madam President, I believe that in this case - I was shadow rapporteur for my Group for the gas sector - a compromise has been found that we can agree to for the other sectors too, because we did not look to the market in an ideological way, but thought in practical terms.
The long-term plan should include both gas supply networks and regional interconnections.
Thank you. (SK) Before proceeding to a number of aspects of this report I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Ţicău, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in compiling the report.
Finally I would also like to mention the aspect of financial support, which is essential for implementing measures to improve energy performance in the various Member States.
I also applaud the proposal to encourage better use of the Structural Funds for the purpose of improving energy performance in the various Member States.
In conclusion I would like to emphasise a very important fact, which relates to the speedy and careful examination of energy performance improvement measures in the various Member States.
The revival of the energy performance of buildings sector, except for a striking reduction.... (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Madam President, I would particularly like to thank the rapporteurs, who are talking over there.
Legislation such as this will ensure our manufacturers become world leaders in the technology we so urgently need.
I welcome the inclusion in the new legislation of special measures for protecting vulnerable consumers. (SL) The European Parliament has rightly put the consumer at the heart of its negotiations, because what the internal market needs is a consumer with more rights and one with access to clear information.
The consumer must have the option of choosing his or her service provider, which is why he or she also needs a smart meter.
However, I think that the negotiated compromise on ownership unbundling still permits major organisational differences between electricity and gas markets in the various Member States.
I also hope that, with the mechanisms and provisions contained in this package, such as greater independence for national regulators, we will manage to overcome these differences and re-establish a single market for electricity and gas. (PL) Madam President, for the success of an undertaking like the creation of a uniform energy space, common and coordinated investments in the energy infrastructure are essential.
However, the future of this legislation lies in providing even stronger guarantees to consumers, protection measures for vulnerable people, as well as in greater transparency and comparability in terms of contractual relations.
I believe that this legislation will continue in this direction in the future. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate you on this package in particular.
The fact that we will have a European regulator to help each Member State's enterprises to be treated on an equal basis in the other 26 Member States and that the energy suppliers on the other 26 markets will have new opportunities is an important aspect of this regulation, resulting in the creation of completely new opportunities.
With regard to the legislation on passive and active houses I would also like to say that our careful attention to the efficiency of buildings will hopefully result in the creation of new jobs in this area in the future.
I would also like to thank Bethan Roberts and René Tammist who have been a great help in preparing this report.
I think that the energy crisis will become more acute in future years, so getting the right market framework in place, and creating the right kind of incentives for the right kind of investment, is crucial.
We need an estimated EUR 1 trillion worth of investment in the markets to stop the lights from going out in future.
You know that there are 12 countries in the European Union where one company dominates 70% of the electricity market.
Whether we need a fourth package or not will depend on the Commission ensuring implementation and good policing of these new laws by national regulatory authorities and competition authorities.
rapporteur. - Madam President, can I first of all say that my colleague Mr Vidal-Quadras sends his apologies?
I would like to pick up one or two points that have come up in the debate.
Over the next 10, 15 or 20 years, however, it will certainly provide for the demand and need for energy and will provide for, and of course protect, consumers, particularly the most vulnerable ones.
The other fundamental point is this: that Europe's population is unaware of all that we have done at the Commission, the Council and in Parliament on this package, which is of crucial importance for energy consumers - you saw what happened last winter.
I think that the task that should fall to the Commission, the Council and Parliament, even before we concern ourselves with the application of this package, is to let consumers know that the package exists, let them know what has been done for them, on their behalf and, once again, for them.
rapporteur. - Madam President, like my colleagues I would like to say that, although it is not perfect, the third energy package is a very good basis for developing our common market, especially in gas, and for enhancing gas security.
The package also gives an assurance to consumers that they can pursue their rights, and it creates a better competitive framework for the development of the energy markets and for their efficient functioning.
Having said that, I should like to stress the fact that it is essential that this measure be applied equally across all Member States and also to all manufacturers in the EU and beyond.
I personally believe that an increase of up to 15% in the European Regional Development Fund rate, which can be used by Member States to fund energy performance in residential buildings, is a necessity.
I would like to emphasise that this directive has very great potential for creating new jobs: roughly 500 000 jobs could be created at European level, with major implications for the regional or national labour market.
I would like to thank once again the shadow rapporteurs and staff from the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and also fellow rapporteurs who have supported us and with whom I have enjoyed excellent cooperation.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 22 April 2009.
The vote on the report by Mrs Ţicău will take place on Thursday 23 April 2009.
Today nearly 100 million people live in prefabricated buildings.
Support for the modernisation of existing prefabricated buildings should be an assignment for the European Parliament in the new term.
The new regulation may boost competition in the EU electricity and gas market.
However, we cannot proceed with adopting the proposal without mentioning that the final regulation has lost a great deal in terms of its ambition, compared to the Commission's original proposal.
For this reason the European Parliament has placed the consumer at the centre of its third energy package.
In order for consumers to benefit from this important legislation, Parliament has revised and improved the directive on the energy performance of buildings, which accounts for around 40% of EU energy consumption.
I welcome the creation of a European fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy to support the implementation of this directive.
Up until now, limited use of the Structural Funds has been authorised for the energy performance of buildings only in the new EU-12.
That option is now extended to all Member States.
In order to ensure successful implementation of the directive it is essential for Member States to consult with representatives of local and regional authorities on all aspects arising from the directive and also with consumer protection groups.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs who worked on the drafts of the energy package, especially Mrs Morgan, who did a great deal of important work in the area of consumer protection.
I am particularly glad that the new package also devotes attention to the question of energy poverty.
In connection with this I think we should pay particular attention to the matter of the energy performance of buildings, since they account for as much as 40% of our total energy consumption.
I also support extending use of the Structural Funds to include work connected with the energy efficiency of buildings in all countries of the Community, and increasing the amount which can be allocated from the European Regional Development Fund for projects in this area from 3% to 15%.
