President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 April 2009 the meeting of the G20 heads of state and government was held in London to discuss further steps towards the recovery of the global economy and the prevention of future crises on such a scale.
I would therefore like to take a look from a distance at what the London G20 Summit might mean for the world economy and for the EU in particular.
It may even stand the test of time and be accorded similar historical importance to the Bretton Woods Conference of 1944, which determined the shape of global economic cooperation for a quarter of a century and continues to influence it even after 60 years.
The first reason is that the G20 really did boost confidence in the economy and in the markets.
At the heart of our global recovery plan must be the needs and interests not only of people alive today but also of future generations.
Secondly, the G20 summit sent a very strong signal - clearly the strongest in 60 years - that the world was returning to multilateralism in economic decision-making on matters of global consequence.
In the summit conclusions the heads of state and government reaffirmed their conviction that prosperity is indivisible and that if economic growth is to be sustained then countries must share in that growth.
The interconnectedness of our economies has brought enormous benefits, particularly over the past 10-15 years, in the form of a long period free of major conflicts and in the form of unprecedented economic prosperity and the fastest global economic growth in human history, as well as opportunities for hundreds of millions of people to escape from extreme poverty.
The commitments from London capped off three months of intensive discussions at a working level and they marked a real breakthrough.
The largest newly-emerging economies achieved full recognition of their role in the global economy.
Secondly, in the area of global trade the G20 leaders confirmed in London their earlier commitment from the Washington meeting not to create new trade barriers.
The G20 summit also confirmed the commitment to complete the Doha Development Agenda "with an ambitious and balanced outcome”.
Nevertheless the G20 leaders in London made a fresh declaration that from now on they would give their personal attention to the Doha Development Agenda and they guaranteed that political attention would be focused on Doha at all forthcoming international meetings that are relevant from this perspective.
Concerning the medium and long-term commitments to strengthen multilateral institutions, there is a commitment to provide the IMF with an unprecedentedly large multilateral loan of USD 500 billion.
The commitment speaks of SDR 250 billion.
All of this could take several years and it is therefore necessary to remain firm but realistic in our expectations.
The G20 countries also asked the IMF to speed up the next round of reform in member shares and voting rights so that it is ready by January 2011.
There will also be reform aimed at strengthening the role of the IMF in global economic decision-making.
Thus, in the future there should be no hiding place in any part of the world for fiscal free riders.
It was agreed to substantially increase IMF resources, and the EU and its Member States have been steering the process and showing the way in this regard.
Some countries have followed the EU and Japan's lead in pledging resources to the IMF, but more pledges are necessary, in particular from the United States and China.
Let us recall that this crisis originated from excesses and greed in the financial markets, especially on Wall Street.
If we close our borders to trade and exchange, we will merely repeat the errors made by our predecessors in the 1929 crisis.
The fact is, we will not be able to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens in the economy until we have restored confidence in our financial system.
In this way, the global economy will be able grow by USD 150 million a year.
This is why we support the G20 commitment to allocate 850 billion in additional resources to support growth in the emerging markets and the developing countries.
This means in essence that, in two years, unemployment will have increased by 10 million jobs lost in the European Union.
The conclusion from the G20 in London was that, if there is a need to do more, then we agree to do more.
I cannot say anything other than repeat the figure of 27 million unemployed people.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (LT) I would also like to welcome the agreement reached in London, but at the same time underline that the global economy needs global governance.
Above all we must modernise governance, modernise the European Union's financial markets, rest on the strength of our common European market and not shut ourselves away in our little national corners.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
I would therefore appeal for us to consider, particularly in the new EU Member States that have joined the exchange rate mechanism tool and keep to a fixed exchange rate that allows a large part of these loans to be paid back to European banks, whether this should not mean that these countries should also be helped with a swifter introduction of the euro.
Mr President, the assessment of the G20 results that we have just heard - success story, turning point in the crisis, an enormous success for the European Union, and so on - in my view raises two questions.
When Joseph Stiglitz, who was, as you know, appointed by the United Nations to chair an independent committee of experts on the financial crisis, was asked: 'Do you agree with the economist Simon Johnson when he says that the regulatory aspect of the G20 is close to zero?', Mr Stiglitz replied, 'Yes, I do'.
We must have the ambition to take on a vanguard role in the construction of a global financial and economic order.
If our representatives do not all pull in the same direction, we shall be weakened on the global stage.
The result is yet to be achieved. (PT) Mr President, the G20 Summit was important, particularly because it created a space for multilateral dialogue and made people realise that, without this multilateralism, the crisis cannot be solved.
Look at the latest estimates from the International Monetary Fund and the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) of 27 million people unemployed, which is a huge problem.
The European Union with 27 Member States is indeed the right arena in which to organise a new financial market order.
If it were, we would be in a far better position and could look future generations in the eye.
Many members of parliament and many politicians in the Bundestag no longer had any interest in what had happened up to 1945.
The EU and, more importantly, the political actors failed dramatically in the financial crisis.
I would like to stress that this regulation lays the foundations for European supervision in the spirit of the proposals in the de Larosière report.
However, we must also take into account the fears of our fellow citizens and respond positively to them.
The European Union is the most important, integrated, and balanced economic area in the world, and therefore must lead the way, as it has great potential and can enrich the global agenda with the realisation that we are not only in the midst of a cyclical crisis, but actually confronting a crisis with deeper roots, which requires the political initiative of the European Union. - (LT) One of the measures given in the statement issued by the International Monetary Fund on opportunities for the EU's Central and Eastern European countries to exit the crisis more swiftly is the introduction of the euro.
The economic slump in the EU and throughout the world calls for novel, speedy and creative decisions and compromises, all the more so because in the ten years of the euro's existence, not one euro zone country has implemented all of the euro zone criteria and requirements, the Maastricht criteria. (NL) I wish to take this opportunity to denounce a bit of hypocrisy with regard to the G20 summit.
At the same time, however, in implementing these financial stimulus measures for the economy we must think not only of ourselves but also of our children and grandchildren.
I would like to voice my disagreement with Mrs Lucas.
We must not expect positive results to appear suddenly over the next three to four months.
The problems affecting the global economy - and therefore the European economy too - are deeply-rooted and long-term in nature.
Mr Wurtz criticised the superficiality of the financial market agreements.
I would also like to emphasise that the European Commission has already discussed further specific measures this week.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank you for a very serious and constructive debate.
I will of course report this to the Commission, President Barroso and my colleague, Joaquín Almunia.
We are doing our homework on the financial market reform, as a response to several colleagues.
Finally, while the reform of the financial regulation in Europe, and in the world globally, is indeed necessary in order to correct the system errors of financial capitalism, at the same time it is important that we do not throw the baby out with the bathwater as regards the market economy as such.
The vote will take place on Friday, 24 April 2009.
