The relationship between consumers and banks in Europe remains complicated because of the distortions that are a feature of the sector.
This concerns the internal retail market as well as SMEs.
The second point is that we need a balance between supply and demand.
Experts should present their recommendations to the Commission by 1 May 2009.
I would therefore like to focus on two issues of particular importance in the retail area, our consideration of the framework for retail investment products, and our work on bank account mobility.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the very serious problem of high banking fees in many Member States.
Apart from the need to reduce banking fees and make them more transparent, it will also be necessary to concentrate on enhancing the quality of banking services and improving the financial knowledge of consumers as well as small and medium-sized businesses.
I therefore think that Parliament ought above all to place the national banking world in line concerning fairer criteria. (DE) Mr President, both the Karas report and the Pittella report demonstrate that there is still a great deal to do for consumers in the sector of retail financial services such as bank accounts, loans and insurance.
However, responsibilities are also bound up with this right.
In one country there are only private banks, in others there are also savings banks, credit unions, state banks and more of the same.
Mrs Roithová talked about the situation in her country but mentioned that it was not only in her country that the high fees are often the result of a fragmented market with only a few players.
Mrs Roithová referred to bank changes and my colleague Neelie Kroes has dealt with that issue.
I would just like to point out that we cannot regulate charges as such, but what we really need is real competition and the ability of consumers to easily switch from providers with which they are dissatisfied.
Moving on to the issue of what is the best approach on the regulation of financial markets, I believe - and I have often said so to Commissioner McCreevy - that under-regulated and poorly regulated financial markets and the frequently ineffectual self-regulation carried out by the banking industry are elements whose negatives effects have been clearly demonstrated by the current financial crisis.
The complexity of financial products makes it difficult for consumers to make informed decisions.
in writing. - The Commission offers three strategies in the Green Paper on retail financial services to promote integration of the retail markets in financial services - lower prices and more choice, empowering consumers and enhancing consumer protection.
The audit shows that there are significant differences between the commission paid for bank cards.
