Mr President, I am pleased to open this debate on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on the banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury.
The European Parliament welcomed the strategy and its overall approach in the resolution adopted in March 2006.
The proposal that is now before you implements two key actions identified in the strategy, namely Action 5 (by banning the export of metallic mercury from the Community) and Action 9 (by requiring the safe storage of mercury that is no longer needed in the chlor-alkali industry).
The primary production of mercury came to an end within the Community four years ago when the last active mine in Almadén in Spain stopped its activities.
The environmentally desirable phasing-out of mercury-cell technology into chlor-alkali industry results, however, in a new source of mercury supplies: some 12 000 tonnes of surplus mercury will come out of the sector over the next number of years until its transition to mercury-free technologies is completed.
In the city of Mina-Mata in Japan in 1956, 8 000 people died because they ate fish with a high mercury content.
I am extremely satisfied that both the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Committee on Legal Affairs rejected the double legal basis and opted for Article 175 as the only basis, given that the objective of the regulation is to protect the environment and public health.
As far as the starting date for banning exports is concerned, I am calling for something fair and simple: we in the European Parliament need to remain consistent with the resolution we ourselves adopted by a very large majority in March 2006 on the Community Strategy Concerning Mercury.
As far as the ban on mercury imports is concerned, there is no sense in storing mercury from the European Union on the one hand and in importing mercury for use within the European Union on the other.
These improvements include the following: extension of this regulation to include products and mercury compounds, extension of the ban to include imports, entry into force of the ban on a date earlier than that desired by the Commission, that is to say 2010 instead of 2011, setting up of a tracking system for the mercury trade in order to obtain increased monitoring of mercury, support for developing countries as they convert to modern, mercury-free technology.
These changes are precisely in line with what I proposed as draftsman of the Committee on International Trade, and I am very grateful for them.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (ES) Mr President, we had no difficulty in the Committee on Legal Affairs in dealing with the issue of the legal basis, because the aim of this measure is not the implementation of commercial policy - and Article 133 is not therefore applicable - but the protection of health - and Article 175 is therefore applicable.
Having proposed this legal basis, therefore, Mr President, I would also call for support for Mr Callanan's Amendment 40.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, as this House is well aware, this proposed regulation on the banning of exports and storage of metallic mercury is in line with the commitments contained in the Mercury Strategy which we passed in March 2006.
The PPE-DE Group supports the broad aims of the regulation.
We accept the Commission's view that metallic mercury is by far the most relevant substance in terms of quantity, as compared to mercury compounds and products containing mercury, and that extending the export ban would be very premature at this stage.
Finally, we are grateful for the consistency of those people who propose that exporting and other operations with mercury should be able to be carried out - as we had stated in the Matsakis report - until 2010, and indicating the date of 1 December, thereby allowing mercury to be in circulation for rather longer.
We feel that we should keep to the 1 January 2010 deadline, as we previously decided in the Mercury Strategy.
Until recently, mercury was and, in many cases, still is in every household and in every doctor's and dentist's surgery, as well as in every hospital in the form of thermometers, barometers, sphygmomanometers, tooth fillings, etc.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the European Parliament and Council regulation on the banning of exports and the safe storage of mercury is a document that restricts the occurrence of mercury in the environment and its effect on people and animals.
Between 1990 and 2000, the countries of the European Union reduced global mercury emissions by 60%.
We should be aware that, in view of the dangers of mercury, the industrial sector itself is trying to move away from processes that involve mercury.
Amendments 11, 12, 15, 23-27 to the Commission's proposal are not justified.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) Metallic mercury is a danger to public health and to the environment, and we now have 12 000 metric tons of mercury that have to be stored.
It would therefore be odd if we were to send this mercury here, there and everywhere and store it in a host of different places and in stores that were unsafe.
I am therefore opposed to Amendment 40, because it would undermine safety at work.
It is important for us to agree on one and the same date: 1 January 2010, as stated in Amendment 43, proposed by my group.
It is important for the ban to be introduced on 1 January 2010.
It is my impression that for some Member States the period laid down in Amendment 8 is too short.
I fail to understand why salt mines or the mines in Almadén in Spain would be the best place to store mercury and its compounds.
To conclude, I should like to thank all those who contributed to drawing up this regulation, a process that was conducted in a positive atmosphere of cooperation.
Since this substance is extremely toxic, especially for children, we should take an interest in protection not only in connection with mercury production or use, but also during the storage or handling of mercury waste.
Industry generates excessive quantities of mercury, for example, in the form of by-products in the chemical industry, in connection with the cleaning of natural gas, or in the extraction of non-ferrous metals and smelting in the metallurgical industry.
I agree with the rapporteur and support his stance that the European Union should not be using double standards - that is, a product which may not be used in the European Union should not be exported to countries which have no legislation on the use of mercury.
The export of mercury, according to that, would be banned as from 1 July 2011.
The same goes for the proposal to include mercury compounds in the export ban.
However, according to new information, mercury is also a dangerous material and we should protect ourselves and future generations against its toxic effects.
The European Union has already banned the use of mercury and materials containing mercury on its territory.
Now we want to ban the export of mercury as well.
Hopefully, our decision will encourage other countries to reduce their use of mercury as well.
I decided to suggest 1 December 2010 as an acceptable compromise, in accordance with Parliament's resolution of last year.
A good compromise serves our citizens better than postponed debates that do not lead to any kind of regulation. (DE) Mr President, mercury must be banned comprehensively and quickly.
It is nothing short of absurd for us to issue warnings, as the Commission has done, that pregnant women and children should eat no more than 100 grams of tuna per week since it is so contaminated with mercury.
The limit value for metallic, inorganic mercury in blood is 25 micrograms, and that for organic mercury compounds is 100 micrograms.
The report by Mr Papadimoulis, whom I thank for this work, will mean that there is an end to the export of mercury compounds from Europe and that the EU starts work on the safe storage of the existing material.
At the same time, it makes sense for all mercury compounds to be covered by the export ban where a substitute is available, which is the case for almost all uses.
I consider Article 175 of the common treaties applicable to this Regulation.
Nonetheless, I have high mercury levels in my body.
I particularly hope that, in the future, it will be possible for all women throughout the world to eat fish from the water close to them, without being in danger of damaging their children's development. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, this is a battle that should have all of us rallying to the flag.
Be that as it may, this is no longer the time for regrets but for securing the largest possible majority in support of a definitive ban on this dangerous metal. (ES) Mr President, this proposal for a Regulation proposes banning exports of metallic mercury from 1 July 2011 at the latest, and in parallel includes provisions on the safe storage of the surpluses of mercury that are going to be produced above all as a result of the withdrawal of mercury cells from chlor-alkali factories; it is calculated that, throughout Europe, these cells contain approximately 12 000 tonnes of mercury.
The latter has accepted putting an end to mercury exports from 1 July 2011, and I believe that these agreements must be respected and under no circumstances must the date for banning mercury exports be brought forward.
The surpluses from the chlor-alkali industry must be stored, because that storage is necessary.
Amendments 1, 7, 8, 9, 20, 21, 22 and 44 imply a significant extension of the scope of the proposal through the introduction of an export ban for cinnabar ore, calomel, mercury compounds and some mercury-containing products, as well as through the addition of an import ban.
Amendments 6, 24 and 36 imply that preference should be given to the former mining site of Almadén for the storage of mercury.
Amendments 8, 10, 13, 30 and 32 increase the administrative burden for industry, as well as for Member States and the Commission.
As regards the legal basis referred to in Amendment 2, the Commission proposal follows the line given by the European Court of Justice in its judgments in cases C-94/03 and C-178/03 concerning the Rotterdam Convention on prior informed consent for imports of chemicals.
Amendments 17 and 34 calling for the introduction of an article on penalties are, however, acceptable to the Commission.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - It is clear that mercury is a substance that needs to be dealt with in a cautious and secure manner.
I am sure work on other strategic issues is ongoing.
