&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 18 November 2004. &#160;&#160; Before beginning this afternoon’s sitting, I would like to draw your attention to three important issues affecting us at the moment, two of which appear on our agenda.
The first is Ukraine, on which we are going to hold a debate and to which Parliament is going to send a delegation this very evening.
I would like to point out that Mr Taraschuk, Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament’s Committee on European Affairs, is with us today.
So at five o'clock Mr Taraschuk will appear before an extraordinary sitting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The coming elections in Palestine will offer a good opportunity to contribute to the development of freedom and democracy there, and to this end it will be necessary to guarantee the free movement of the electorate and the opportunity for everybody, including the inhabitants of East Jerusalem, to register on the electoral roll.
By dealing with this dramatic issue today through the European Commission’s statement and our debate and resolution, we wish to express our concern at this extremely serious situation, a concern which I have personally expressed in a press issued before the beginning of the plenary session. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the establishment of the order of business.
The first relates to the removal of the Statements on the Summit between the European Union and Russia.
Mr Cohn-Bendit wished to speak in relation to these changes to the agenda, but first I would like to point out that Mr Farage has proposed another change, which he will talk about as well. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our group contests the decision to change the agenda concerning a statement and the tabling of a resolution on the EU-Russia summit, a decision that was made by the secretaries-general and not by the Conference of Presidents.
Those are two completely separate issues.
As a European Union and as a Parliament, we cannot allow Mr Putin to hold us hostage.
The reason given why we should not hold such a debate here is that one will be held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
As events unfold, we will promptly request a roll-call vote so that the debate can get underway. &#160;&#160; I must inform the House that Mr Farage has put a request to the Presidency of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, that the agenda for the plenary sitting be amended, replacing an oral question to the Commission on football in the European Union with another oral question relating to the approval of the Commission.
All I was doing was getting up and telling the truth, but perhaps the time between my telling people about Mr Barrot and the vote was not long enough for people to really think it through.
This Commission, like the Commission that went before it and the one before that, starts under the most enormous shadow and I do not think that these European institutions will have any credibility at all unless we have this debate. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;At the last part-session, we were told by Mr&#160;Farage that there were good reasons why the French Commissioner should not in fact become a member of the Commission.
I would, though, like to emphasise something that Mr Farage had to acknowledge in the Conference of Presidents, namely that we have to take account of the legal position in different countries, and that applies in this case too, in which the punishment has been wiped from the record, so that no penalty has in fact been imposed.
I might add, Mr President, that I wish to move that, in view of the urgency of the debate on Ukraine, we should pass on to it as soon as this item on the agenda has been dealt with. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Ukraine. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, let me start by saying that I welcome the opportunity to discuss with you the situation in Ukraine after the presidential elections and the state of the relations between the EU and Ukraine.
Five weeks ago I said that Ukraine was at a crossroads, with presidential elections which would determine the direction Ukraine is going during the next four years.
Javier Solana explained that message to your Foreign Affairs Committee last Wednesday.
I will explain what we have done since then, how we see the current situation and what steps should be taken next.
Over recent days the EU has been in very close contact with the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the US and Russia, since solving the situation in Ukraine requires a concerted effort and sending a similar message to the Ukrainians.
In his conversations with President Kuchma, Mr Lytvyn, the Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament, and others, he has underlined the EU’s position, including the EU’s call on all sides to show restraint and to express themselves in a non-violent manner.
Polish President Kwaśniewski, as chair of the Council of Europe, and Lithuanian President Adamkus are also in Kiev to contribute to finding a solution for this crisis.
Therefore, more recently the presidency has called on all parties to meet again as they did during the round-table talks on 26 November this year and to live up to the agreements made there.
The current situation requires a political answer which fits in with Ukrainian legislation and which respects the rule of law.
Any solution should ensure that the Ukrainian electoral system regains the trust of the Ukrainian people.
Therefore, together, we have put severe pressure on all involved to refrain from violence or the use of force.
But I think we all want to engage Ukraine in a closer and more intense relationship.
The potential is there.
Therefore, in closing, I say that we should express our support to all those on both sides who are peacefully and democratically expressing their views and their political aspirations.
We urge the people of Ukraine to work together with the international community to resolve the current political crisis.
We have to find a solution that ensures that Ukrainians can trust that their will is reflected; a solution away from violence and the use of force, and one which guarantees that the territorial integrity of Ukraine is maintained; in short, a solution which is acceptable to all Ukrainians.
There was therefore no mistaking the message from the European Union that the democratic decision of the Ukrainian people had to be adhered to.
At the same time, of course, we have to engage in active crisis management if a peaceful resolution of this crisis is to be achieved – I can endorse what Mr Nicolaï has already said.
The Ukrainian parliament also voted for a re-run of the second round of elections.
There is no agreement among its participants on whether there should be a completely new second round of the elections or whether new elections should be held in only a few districts.
The people of Ukraine must be free to take decisions on their country’s future.
Ukraine must remain intact as a viable state.
Dividing the country would result in a grave crisis, hence the statements that all of us – that is, the various European institutions – have made about territorial integrity.
Just before this debate, I spoke with Mr Tarasyuk, the former foreign minister, who is present in the visitors’ gallery.
I would like to consider two issues that have arisen over and over again in the past few days and are hanging over us: have we – that is, the European Union – done enough to help Ukraine move to democracy and to a market economy?
Since 1991, and particularly since the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement in 1998, we have stepped up our cooperation in many areas, giving particular support to economic and social reforms.
The action plans devised for this offer each and every partner a perspective that is ambitious, but above all tailor-made.
They contain, for example, joint actions on justice, energy and environmental issues and strengthened trading relations, that is to say, an opportunity to play a part in the internal market, and, ultimately, partial integration into it, that is to say participation in what we call the four freedoms.
I will also say loud and clear what Mr Nicolaï has already said, namely that the quality of our partnership depends, of course, on the quality of democracy in Ukraine.
This morning, the Commission did of course discuss what plans of action we have for Ukraine, and these plans of action are very definitely on the agenda for the next meeting of the Commission.
The Commission will continue to implement the measures that are already in place in support of democracy and civil society, of which the general public are of course the main beneficiaries.
I believe we are sending exactly the right message in support of the popular struggle for the establishment of fundamental democratic values.
What that means in particular is that both the electoral legislation and the practical conduct of the elections must be substantially improved.
The Commission is currently examining to what extent our rapid response mechanism and other resources can be used to support this election process, as they were in support of the Georgian electoral authorities in January 2004.
Images from every corner of Ukraine show us how millions of Ukrainians are living out their fundamental democratic freedoms under adverse and tragic conditions.
These images remind us all of the non-violent citizens’ movements of 1989, which made it possible for the division of the continent of Europe to be overcome.
The European Union and all its European citizens are solidly behind Ukraine.
The European Commission, too, will continue to do everything it can in this historic process of transformation in order to be able to work closely with Ukraine.
Let me draw the House’s attention to the fact that we are witnessing an unprecedented revolution in Ukraine.
A vibrant, true democracy is being born before our very eyes.
We owe that to Ukrainian society and to its nascent democracy.
Just a few days ago Ukraine seemed a distant place.
Ukrainian society has shown us not only its political maturity, but also its adherence to our common European values.
We cannot recognise the results of the second round of elections in Ukraine, which were manipulated and falsified.
We cannot accept the disregard of the wishes of the people of Ukraine.
We have to reject all allegations that, by expressing its support for the Ukrainian people’s right to exercise democratic rights, the European Union is encouraging violence.
We are bound to call on the Ukrainian authorities to cancel the second round of the presidential elections and to organise a rerun of the second round, but not new elections that would eliminate current candidates.
This should be done before the end of the year and under the full scrutiny of international observers.
The European Union and other international bodies should do everything to guarantee full transparency of the electoral process, which should meet all democratic standards.
The EU should use all means to secure the democratic character of the elections.
The European Parliament should also strongly encourage safeguarding of the country’s integrity, carried out in a peaceful manner.
If the rerun of the second round of the presidential elections meets international standards, we should ask the Council and the Commission to speed up implementation of the action plan for Ukraine and, as a priority, to focus on the development of civil society.
If Ukraine takes a positive step towards democracy, we should do more, act more quickly, and consider giving more relevance and true content to our new neighbourhood policy towards Ukraine and a new impulse to our eastern policy under the CFSP.
If realities on the ground allow, we should grant Ukraine the status of a market economy and more access to our markets.
We should express – and not only verbally – our solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
If democracy prevails in Ukraine, it will be a triumph of values which are enshrined in all our European constitutional charters.
I end by saying in Ukrainian, perhaps for the first time in this House: Європейсъкий парламентвітає демократію в Україні!’ – the European Parliament greets democracy in Ukraine. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by welcoming Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
Speaking on behalf of our Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I can say that, when peace and democracy are at stake, when it comes to peaceful coexistence and the securing of fundamental citizens’ rights, which the state must guarantee if it is to deserve to be described as a democracy, then we are all on the same side, and that is one of the good things about Europe.
Over and above the gulfs that separate us in other respects, there are things we all want, and we Social Democrats are quite clear in our own minds what those things are: fundamental citizens’ rights, fundamental citizens’ freedoms, above all else the unrestricted right to vote, the sovereign right to determine who runs the state – all that is traditional European democracy.
I agree with Mr Saryusz-Wolski that, if the Ukrainians are now on the move towards this model of democracy, they will need more than anything else the help of the most successful model of multinational democracy in the world – that being the European Union, in defence of which we in this House should be united!
Discussing these things in the European Parliament is, of course, a straightforward matter; things are much more difficult in Kiev and in the countryside, and there are two crucial factors that must define the roles of all who are currently actively involved, both those based in Ukraine and with responsibilities in that country, and those whom we have sent there, where they act on our behalf.
I have not been there, nor am I going there – a delegation from our group is going there today and will assuredly get a much clearer impression than we will – but, when I see these pictures, it becomes clear to me that what there is on the ground is such a mass movement, with the power of the state on the one side colliding with the popular will on the other, that it will be very difficult to steer and direct it, and there is little distance to be covered between a peaceful solution and a bloodbath.
This is a responsibility to be assumed by all – by those who bear responsibility in Ukraine, and by those who remind them what their responsibility is.
I might add that that is not only in the Ukrainians’ interests, but also in our own most essential interest.
I take pride in the fact that our friends Javier Solana and Aleksander Kwaśniewski are playing key roles in negotiating between the parties – the involvement of the European Union’s High Representative for Foreign Relations and the President of Poland is a good sign, for President Kwaśniewski, as you so rightly said, represents a country that has successfully been through this process, and Javier Solana was once a minister in a country – and a member of a party – both of which had freed themselves from a dictatorship.
So we now have two men in the thick of things who can draw on their own experience in making an important contribution towards the Ukraine adopting and realising what we describe as a European model of democracy.
The European Parliament’s donning of the colour orange today will go down in European history.
This House is facing its defining moment, which will decide the role of the European Parliament in the Europe of the future.
I should like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament have been united in their positions on an issue as important as Ukraine.
Parliament was actually the first to understand the significance of the colour orange in Europe.
Let me add that we expect the political negotiations under way in Kiev, with the participation of Europe’s major institutions, such as the European Union, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, will deliver a solution that restores freedom.
Finally, I should like to say that Ukraine has opened itself up to Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe must open itself up to Ukraine. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Mr Schulz, Mr Geremek, having spent last weekend in Kiev, I would like to start by adding a few words to the discussion on violence.
Having had many meetings and conversations in Kiev, my impression is that violence is not being threatened by those who have pitched their tents in the city’s streets, or by those who have been demonstrating there for ten days and upwards.
I am glad that Members from Poland and other countries in the East that already, thank God, belong to the European Union, are being more far-sighted about policy on Ukraine than the rest of the EU.
Again and again, I hear people talking about Putin’s interests, about Russia’s interests, about American interests, about Europeans’ interests and about geostrategic interests, but, since coming back from Kiev, what I find lacking is any understanding, at the end of the day, among ourselves, that this mass movement in Ukraine is, at the moment, about the Ukrainians’ interests.
If we do not put that centre stage in the debate and in our diplomacy, there is a very great risk of failure.
What I brought away with me from last weekend – and I think that will be our common experience – was that, after all our debates about European values and where in the world they are being realised, it does you a power of good to spend a few days in Kiev, for that, if anywhere in Europe, is where you can really feel that Europe shares a soul.
I hope that the delegation we are sending there will be what you want, what all the Members of this House want, and that we will be able to put flesh on the core demand – to which I referred at the outset – of the wearers of orange, the pressure from whom we too have needed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, the events that have been unfolding in Kiev over the last ten days are good news for democracy.
In light of Ukraine’s history, such an approach may only exacerbate the split between the two main sections of the country.
Neither does it address the interests of the EU; the more we are committed to fostering an economic dynamic in Ukraine through our mediation, the more we have everything to lose from the destabilisation of such an economically and politically fragile country and, on a broader scale, region.
Once fresh elections have been held in Ukraine – this, at least, is what we hope will happen – in other words, once the entire country’s legitimate representative has been appointed completely transparently, the time will have come to start calm political dialogue with both the authorities and society itself; dialogue that would not pit new relations with the EU against the particular relations between Russia and Ukraine, but would, instead, be aimed at developing a perspective that all sections of Ukrainian society can identify with.
The crowds in Kiev who are demonstrating in favour of normality and justice, and who retain their calm and their dignity, rightly deserve our admiration.
We all pray that, unlike in the past, it will be the Ukrainians alone who decide their future.
We rightly condemn one side for not complying with the basic rules on holding free elections, yet I have Internet pages in my hand, taken from a Ukrainian newspaper, denouncing, a few days ago, an election document distributed in Western Ukraine by some supporters of Yushchenko.
I am a Member of the Independence and Democracy Group, so I say long live independent and democratic Ukraine! &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the colour orange so many of us are wearing today and so many of us in this House are carrying is the colour of freedom.
In the same vein, I believe the events I witnessed during my ten-day stay in Ukraine give me the right to say that at present the capital of Europe is not in Brussels or in Strasbourg, but in Kiev, as it is in Kiev that millions of our Ukrainian brothers are fighting for the most basic of European values.
I am proud and moved today to see so many Members of this House, on both the Left and the Right, uniting to defend basic European values such as freedom and democracy.
I am delighted that today’s statements by the Council and the Commission and Parliament’s motion for a resolution, despite being a compromise, will be a clear sign that irrespective of the political differences that divide us, Europeans are sending out the unequivocal message that Europe’s goal is freedom and democracy in Ukraine.
I should also like to add that statements that have unfortunately been repeated in this House, to the effect that President&#160;Yushchenko’s supporters included chauvinists or nationalists, are lies and loathsome provocation, and it is a shame that Members of this House are prepared to be party to such provocation.
I should like to tell the Members of this House who are concerned about anti-Semitism in Ukraine that they should turn their attention to anti-Semitism in Poland, where it is much more widespread.
I should also like to add that tomorrow’s vote will provide us with an opportunity to send a very clear signal to our Ukrainian brothers and sisters, namely that Europe is opening its doors to them.
We need to demonstrate our solidarity with those who are in the cold fighting for democracy.
This is why we wish to show our understanding and solidarity, and I say this as a representative of a country in which the concept of solidarity has a special meaning.
Mr&#160;President, I should like to say that I am proud to be a Member of the European Parliament, which is redeeming Europe’s honour today through its position on Ukraine. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Presidency of the Council and in particular the Commissioner for the clarity with which they have spoken and with which they have made it clear that fraudulently conducted elections can neither be recognised nor declared to be valid.
At the same time, the message to Ukraine must be that a president who rigs elections in order to legitimise his power has no credibility on the international stage.
I am grateful to you, Commissioner, for having suspended the action programme, and, in view of the way things are developing in Ukraine, we will have to consider what is to be done about that country.
That also means, though, that both sides must summon up the willingness to cooperate with us and with Russia equally; this must not, however, be the product of the desire for revenge, but must be characterised by respect for both sides if it is to help bring reconciliation to the Ukrainian people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to greet Mr Tarasyuk, who once shared with me the chairmanship of the inter-parliamentary delegation, and whom I know as a champion of reforms in his country.
The reason for the political crisis in Ukraine is the violation of democracy.
What is central in this issue is the right of the people of Ukraine to make up their own minds in an open and transparent, democratic process.
We must, first and foremost, find a way out, a political and peaceful solution to the situation that has arisen.
There is, however, a greater challenge yet, for this political crisis does not stand on its own.
The outcome of the elections will have a great impact on the EU’s relations with Ukraine, either in the positive or negative sense.
The only satisfactory solution to the crisis is that justice be done to democratic principles and to the will of the Ukrainian people.
The outcome of the elections was also rejected by the Ukrainian parliament.
The solution is to re-stage the second round of the elections with the close involvement of international observers, ensuring that this third round takes place under circumstances that are totally different from those under which the first and second rounds were held, a situation in which democratic standards are, of course, respected under the close observation of the international community.
The democratic aspirations of the people of Ukraine are unmistakable and receive our unqualified support.
I would express my great appreciation and admiration for the protesters in the cities of the Ukraine who argue in favour of the recovery of democracy.
The situation in that country is tense, though, and we would call on both the opposition and the authorities to preserve the non-violent nature of the actions and to prevent the situation from escalating.
If the authorities were to decide on using violence against the peaceful protesters, this will, in our view, immediately impact on relations with the European Union.
Similarly, the division of the country, for which some appear to be pressing, will engender a fresh, much more serious crisis and would not in any way contribute to a satisfactory solution.
Although today’s debate is not about our relationship with Russia, Russia an important factor in the issue and, unfortunately, adopts a slightly different stance in this respect.
Last week, Mr Balkenende, the Dutch Prime Minister and President of the Council, on behalf of the presidency, expressed very clearly the contrasts between Europe and Russia, and on that we congratulate him.
It is, nevertheless, of major importance that Russia be involved in the way in which the crisis is solved and that the Kremlin’s support be sought for the staging of another second round of the elections.
The European Union must offer scope for the accelerated strengthening of political and economic cooperation.
Needless to say, the EU and Ukraine can only cooperate in a more concrete form if a satisfactory and democratic solution has been found for the present crisis.
In my view, the debate in question should produce a better response to the European aspirations of Ukraine than has been the case to date.
Today, we stand united in the reaction to the crisis.
Many Members of this House have personal experience of what it means to live under authoritarian regimes and of what it is like to have to fight for democratic rights.
Many of these countries are now members of the European Union, a fact that exemplifies what can happen when people are allowed to choose their own path.
The whole world has been impressed by the democratic national festivities that we now see on the streets and in the squares of Ukraine, in which hundreds of thousands of people are braving the snow and the cold and, in a cheerful, peaceful and well-organised way, are demonstrating in pursuit of their rights.
It is also true that we are starting to dream that the EU can take a similarly coherent and effective stance in other EU-neighbouring countries where the will of civil society is stifled by authoritarian and autocratic leaders.
This is, for that matter, what the EU is doing with the countries in question, on the basis of common values and commitments.
We are indeed entitled to feel much more concerned about democracy today in Russia than about the future of democracy in Ukraine. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, although I have no orange scarf around my neck, I feel myself no less close to Ukraine than you do, for I spent six continuous years of my life in Kiev.
This division is to a substantial degree the result of international interference going back long before this election and very much to the detriment of the Ukrainian people.
In his own country, the Russian president is doing away with elections for the heads of the Russian regions, some of which are no smaller than the whole of Ukraine.
For months, this election has been dressed up as a choice of direction – with Russia or with Europe, as if Russia were not itself part of Europe to a substantial degree.
If it wants to resolve its serious economic and social problems, the right thing for it must be a good relationship with all its neighbours, both new and old, and this it must be allowed to build up under whichever President, without empty promises, admonitory finger-wagging or unconcealed arm-twisting.
The people of Ukraine must take their decisions democratically and independently, and they will. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that Kiev is more European than Ankara is proved beyond reasonable doubt by what has happened over the past ten days in Ukraine, a country in which people stand up valiantly for the essential value of their ballot papers, and also one that has taught all European institutions a lesson about the true meaning of a European community of values.
That appears to me to be an untenable, and in any event harmful, position.
The Ukrainian people reject the Belarussian model, which is a source of shame for Europe, and also the variant of democracy that is subservient to the President of Russia.
Whatever the outcome of the electoral crisis may be, Ukraine will never be the same again.
The victory of democracy in Ukraine would threaten the Russian-sponsored stability in Belarus and the amnesia regarding Moldova.
The victory of democracy in Ukraine would mobilise democratic forces in Russia itself.
The peaceful orange revolution currently under way in Kiev has a great deal in common with the ‘rose revolution’ which brought President Saakashvili to power in Georgia exactly one year ago.
Mr Saakashvili, whom I was able to meet in Tbilisi a few days ago, is leading Georgia towards a path of renewal, growth and development, within a healthy, pluralist context of democracy.
Today the story is being repeated and, as all the international observers, including those from Europe, have confirmed, the Ukrainian people’s decision has been blatantly altered and misrepresented through obvious, flagrant irregularities.
Although this action in itself is not binding from a legal point of view, it does have a great intrinsic symbolic and political value and confirms the success of the popular pressure that has been exerted in recent days.
Let Europe make its voice heard in that country, which lies so close to our borders, so that the tensions there do not degenerate into civil war or an escalation of violence, and so that all those young people can at last be heard.
Let us here in Parliament raise a cry of solidarity with the demonstrators in Kiev: today we are all Ukrainians. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this House should be proud that last week its MEPs were amongst the first foreigners to address the assembled crowds in Independence Square in downtown Kiev.
There can be no doubt that they were cheated of their election result and the choice of a president of their own desire, but we in the western world cannot be neutral over a large European country struggling between a future as a potential EU and NATO Member State – a democratic one at that – and a powerful clique of corrupt, post-Soviet, anti-democratic authoritarians willing to steal the election, through fraud if necessary, under the tutelage of Moscow.
This agenda is designed to produce immunity from criminal prosecution for electoral and other frauds, as well as to ensure that the Donetsk oligarchs, who have accumulated massive wealth which funded Mr Yanukovich’s campaign, are not open to challenge or scrutiny and that they are not subject to confiscation of some of the dodgy privatisations that have occurred in Ukraine in the last couple of years.
Let us hope for a united, democratic and free Ukraine in the imminent future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, onFriday, in an interview on Russian television, Mr Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Vladimir Putin's man in charge of relations with the European Union, accused the new Members of the European Parliament and their Member States of interfering in Ukraine, adding that 20 years ago Solidarność was a creation of the West and that now the Poles were doing the same in Kiev.
We saw this with Solidarność in Gdansk and Warsaw and with Charter 77 in Prague; we saw it in the streets of Berlin and we saw it in the singing revolutions of the Baltic countries.
In other words we know what is going on, we have seen it before.
Our understanding of these events, our empirical knowledge, must not be dismissed by those who lack the knowledge or understanding of what this means.
Mr Yastrzhembsky, but I fear also some in the West, would paint the new Members' direct experience and knowledge as something that gets in the way of relations with Russia or that threatens illusions about what is going on in Ukraine.
I am not here to take sides in a political contest between candidates and parties in Ukraine, but I do take a stand against manipulation of elections.
We cannot say no to the Ukrainians because we are afraid of losing investments or markets in Russia.
Democrats always try to find the Aristotelian golden mean, even in politics, but there is no middle ground between the truth and a lie, between democracy and its all too many opponents. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to thank both the European Commission and the Dutch Presidency for their decisive actions over the past week.
After seeing how rapidly the European Union took immediate action to send Javier&#160;Solana, Aleksander&#160;Kwaśniewski and President&#160;Adamkus to Ukraine three days after the rigged elections, I felt for the first time that accession to the European Union had been worthwhile, and that we are now part of a group able to stand up for a defenceless nation that is struggling to achieve independence and freedom.
Up until now, such a rapid reaction could only be expected from the United States, or at least that was the case in our country, Poland.
The European Union is now acting as mediator in the conflict in Ukraine.
This number included many Poles, as the Polish people remember the explosive emergence of the Solidarity movement in 1980, and realise that history is currently repeating in Ukraine.
I am convinced that if the European Union supports the emerging democracy and civil society in Ukraine, it will in so doing ensure that democratic principles prevail in the whole of the East and in the whole of the area to the east of Ukraine and to the east of the European Union.
This amendment calls on the Ukrainian Government to refrain from exerting any pressure on the media, and in particular on the public media, in order to ensure that the Ukrainian people are provided with objective and impartial information on the candidates and the situation in their country. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as a Lithuanian as well as a representative of the Lithuanian nation, whose president, together with the Polish President Mr Kwaśniewski and Mr Solana, is today in Kiev, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that events in Ukraine and the success of the peaceful revolution will have important consequences not only for Ukraine, its nation and not only for the further development of the European Union, but also for the nearest of Ukraine’s neighbours – Belarus.
Therefore, let Ukraine’s success today also be the prelude to success for democracy tomorrow in Belarus.
Thank you for you attention. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;It is very difficult to say anything original before this House today.
Yet this is a very good day for the European Parliament, as we are expressing our opinions on issues of the utmost importance to the European Union.
In that same country, several hundred thousand people have been standing in the cold for ten days in many towns, demanding the right to free and honest elections.
The first is that those in power should avoid any kind of solution by force.
We appear to have already forgotten that this was our key principle even before the first round of elections.
This will prove that we are genuinely opening up to Ukraine. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am grateful to the Council for reminding us that the European Union does not have a candidate in the Ukrainian elections, that our responsibility is undoubtedly to contribute to the holding of democratic elections, and that we must press for a peaceful, political solution to the institutional conflict in Ukraine.
We are not here to support either Mr&#160;Yushchenko or Mr Yanukovich, who have both, moreover, been heads of the Ukrainian Government; nor are we here to push for the partitioning of Ukraine between the East and the West, but to guarantee the territorial integrity of the country.
Unfortunately, Ukraine is already a geographically divided country, in which the Russian population makes up 33% of the total population.
In view of these figures – which are similar to those we find in Iraq, where the Sunni population makes up 33% of the total Iraqi population – we need to find a political solution that seeks to hold the two parts together and allows the president who is to be elected – and we want to see him elected in a democratic election – to be president of the whole country.
I have the feeling that the spirit of Yalta is perilously alive in this Parliament and that the only objective is to drag all or part of Ukraine into the western sphere of influence.
The strength and the responsibility of the European Union is not to fight for the causes of the West but to fight for the cause of democracy and to play a part in helping the President of Ukraine to be truly the president of the whole Ukrainian people. &#160;&#160; – The joint resolution by the groups is clear and firm.
The wishes of the Ukrainian nations must be implemented in accordance with the principles of democracy.
I would also like to highlight the importance of those sections of the resolution that support Ukrainian unity and integrity.
Ukraine is in many respects divided, but splitting the country up into two states would be harmful and dangerous.
It must have a right to good relations and cooperation both with the European Union and Russia.
The best situation would be one where we were able to build a multilateral partnership in which the EU, Russia and Ukraine were on an equal footing.
The new Neighbour Policy for Europe should not be seen as an alternative to membership, but a tool to help our European neighbours along the path to membership of the EU.
Now that Turkey has in principle been accepted as a member, the door must also be left open for Ukraine, which is a bona fideEuropean country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am encouraged by the clear conclusions drawn by both the Council and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
For many years hopes were cherished that in due time and with patience all problems would be overcome.
The EU also has to share responsibility for not reacting in time and for not clearly taking the side of genuinely democratic forces.
It is right that we should not take the side of a particular candidate – that is the exclusive right of the Ukrainian people.
In Ukraine, just as in Russia, oligarchic cliques have seized power and produced a criminal state with the blessing of the International Monetary Fund.
What is happening in Moscow is not to anyone’s liking, but hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in the West to pull Georgia, Belarus and Ukraine away from Russian influence.
That is the truth, and the ideals of freedom and democracy have little to do with it: 49&#160;million Ukrainians are the victims of this situation.
It is obvious that Vladimir Putin’s Russia wants to reassemble a few pieces of greater Russia, and that is no less legitimate than wanting to pull Ukraine into the West.
The question is whether it happens with or against the will of the peoples concerned.
It will be very difficult to keep all Ukrainians in a new Galicia and it may end in bloodshed.
Mr Yanukovich has proposed a compromise which at least buys some time to prevent a clash.
Clearly, Mr Putin’s strategic design will be in tatters without Ukraine and, clearly, Mr Putin will not give up easily.
Not all of our neighbours, though, can accede to the European Union.
As early as when we take our decision in December, we will have to consider the European Union’s capacity for accepting new members, and so we need to come to some clearer conclusions about our European neighbourhood policy, and that very soon.
That the High Representative was willing to go to Kiev only when this House insisted on it was a mistake on his part.
Whilst we understand that massive staffs, lots of money and large numbers of personnel are going into the preparations for the Palestinian elections on 9 January, we could have shown the same commitment to one of our immediate neighbours, with its 50 million inhabitants, which wants to be part of Europe.
This is not about thinking in terms of spheres of influence, nor is it anti-Russian, for a democratic Ukraine too will need to maintain good relations with Russia, and we Europeans need to support it in this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is the self-evident responsibility of every progressive citizen to defend democratic freedoms in Ukraine without foreign interference.
The sole objective must be the contribution of the European Union to a peaceful and democratic solution, by repeating the second round of the presidential elections under conditions of complete freedom, so that Ukraine can get out of the political cul-de-sac and so as to avoid any danger of destabilisation, which would have dramatic consequences for security and peace in Europe.
Our message must also be clear to Russia, concerning the avoidance of any action which would complicate the situation.
At this crucial time, the European Union must talk to all the political forces in Ukraine and win the confidence of all the Ukrainian people, not line up behind one side or the other.
The determination of the demonstrators in Kiev is not an attempt to protect the opposition leader, Mr&#160;Yushchenko, but to defend the territorial integrity of Ukraine and to demonstrate their support for the rule of law and a legal state.
I also support a united Ukraine, a country that is both our partner and a powerful neighbour.
They voted against the prime minister, Mr Yanukovich, who, in the eyes of many, represents the oligarchy and a corrupt state.
It is an uprising in the name of basic human rights and this is why the men and women of Ukraine deserve not just our support and our solidarity, but our help and our action.
For us it represents, above all, a responsibility to put our European institutions in order.
Now she deserves to be rewarded. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Judging by the number of orange scarves in this Chamber, the Orange Revolution has also reached the European Parliament.
This should come as no surprise, as the virus of freedom and democracy is extremely contagious and fast-spreading.
Today the impossible is becoming possible in Ukraine, and the Ukrainian people are awakening from their lethargy.
Before our very eyes, the Ukrainian people are facing one of their most difficult tests, a test of their civil responsibility.
Firstly, we must speak clearly and plainly about values, and about the values that connect us to the hundreds of thousands of people who took to the streets of Kiev.
We should speak in the very language used in the motion for a resolution.
The first should be given political support, and the second should be guaranteed a place in the new Ukraine.
Thirdly, the European Union must continue to participate in the political dialogue taking place in Ukraine, as without our international involvement, there is a threat that Ukraine will be faced with the worst possible scenario, namely chaos and fratricidal warfare.
This is the most important challenge facing us today.
In order to prevent such a disaster, the European Parliament should adopt the motion for a resolution by acclamation and without amendment, and it should be taken to Kiev by the European Parliament’s mission.
The Council should support the continuing presence of the High Representative in Kiev, and outline its vision of a European future for Ukraine at the summit in December. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today I am proud of our Parliament.
This is now a question of law, justice and freedom, because Ukraine and the EU share a common future.
The spread of democracy is our greatest challenge.
It is our mission.
It is a historic moment.
Not only are various political tendencies united, but so are the Council and Commission.
To be quite frank, I was surprised that even before the first round of the elections in Ukraine we were already receiving very many signals that there were violations and that the opposition candidate was not being given the opportunity to campaign openly.
We must therefore definitely support democracy in Ukraine, analyse the situation that has come about and forecast the future.
It is crucially important that we see the serious dimension to the crisis that is playing itself out, in which the old dictatorship is trying to rob the people of its new democracy.
Our only concerns should be for the Ukrainian people and for democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and our guests from Ukraine, who must be listening attentively to this debate.
I would like to thank the Ukrainian opposition forces for calmly and patiently managing to make the voice of democracy heard in difficult circumstances.
The EU should adopt a calm but determined stance on the situation in Ukraine.
Our task is to promote democracy and human rights.
The elections will decide whether Ukraine is to become a large version of Poland, a western European country with an open attitude towards democracy, or a small version of Russia, which looks to the east and an authoritarian, quasi-democracy.
May I start by expressing my thanks for the congratulations to the Dutch Presidency and, more importantly, my appreciation for the EU’s major involvement in its important neighbouring country, Ukraine, which was evident from all the speeches that have been made.
As you know, and I am saying this because there may have been some confusion in this matter, it was after the first round that we took steps, issued our statements and developed our activities.
I share the view of a number of Members of this House – first expressed by Mr Schulz, but later by Mrs&#160;Staniszewska – that this is also a moment to be proud of what the European Union is doing, of the way we are trying to get the democratic model to work outside of Europe.
As Mr Saryusz-Wolski, Mr Schulz, Mr Geremek, Mr Kaminski and many others have already stated, it is true that there is broad agreement in your House about what the position is and should be, and that there is also broad agreement with the Commission and the Council.
Rarely have I heard the Council, the Commission and Parliament speak with one voice to such an extent, because we refuse to accept the results which the central election committee has announced.
We should not accept this, because everyone, the people of Ukraine in particular, is entitled to have a new President elected in a free and fair manner as soon as possible.
This time round, orange is not the colour of the Dutch Presidency, because as you know orange is the Dutch national colour.
On the ground, there is also ODIHR, which is a very important institution, and I believe that the OSCE should work together with ODIHR and the European Union on a basis of complementarity.
As you can see, we have been far from inactive, but I do believe that the various institutions in which we all work should complement each other in the work they do.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The policy of the ΕU is blatant, unacceptable, provocative intervention in the internal affairs of Ukraine.
Hopefully the questions that we put before the Council and the responses that we get back will help us reach some conclusions.
In the previous Parliament, in a report that was voted in my name, we set out certain conditions, certain priorities, one of which was quite simple: there will be no interinstitutional agreement without the agreement of Parliament.
The Council is well aware of this but it needs to be stressed, as it is in the text of this oral question.
Mr Böge asks in one of his working documents: what are the options if we cannot come to an agreement with the Council?
Hopefully we will not work as two separate organisations and there will be some work in tandem, so that we can share our ideas and make sure that the building-block approach of the Council matches our own approach as set out in Mr Böge’s working documents.
There is also a question about the calendar of the Presidency, when you hope to conclude, what your present Netherlands Presidency hopes to achieve, and what you think the next Presidency will achieve by the middle of next year.
That was not the nicest way to begin a debate in the European Parliament, because I believe we will reach agreement with Parliament on the financial perspective on time.
As Mr Borrell and Mr Wynn pointed out, the next financial perspectives represent one of the weightiest and most significant dossiers currently facing the Union.
As you will be aware, the timetable for finalising work was laid out in the Multiannual Strategic Programme for 2004-2006, adopted by the European Council in December 2003.
Thus, with the majority of the Commission’s financial and legislative proposals already on the table, work is currently under way within the Council, aimed at possibly reaching decisions on principles and guidelines this month.
The intention is to achieve political agreement before the June 2005 European Council so that both the framework itself and the detailed legislation can finally be adopted by the end of 2005.
As already mentioned, after producing two overall communications – one in February and a follow-up in July – the Commission has also presented a package of detailed proposals setting out the legal framework for key policy areas.
The Council wishes to reassure Mr Borrell that the Commission’s proposal constitutes the basis for work in the Council and is in accordance with normal institutional practice.
However, I think you will agree that, again in accordance with normal institutional practice, it is open to any Member State to agree or disagree to a greater or lesser extent with the financial implications of a Commission proposal and thus endeavour to move the dossier in a direction more agreeable to it.
This is part of the normal process of negotiations.
As far as the Union’s own resources are concerned, the Commission has submitted as part of its legislative package a report on the operation of the own-resources system as well as two proposals.
These proposals make provision for the possibility of new tax-based own resources to be operational as from 2014, as well as for a generalised correction mechanism.
Preliminary work on these proposals has started and it is generally agreed that the concept of the globality of the financial perspective negotiations implies not only that individual policy areas must be viewed together in the context of overall expenditure, but also that expenditure must be seen in the context of the overall negotiations, including the question of own resources in all its aspects.
The Council also recalls in this connection that own resources formed an integral part of the 1999 Berlin agreement on which the current financial perspective is based.
On cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament, it should be recalled that, as specified in the joint declaration of July referred to by Mr Wynn and Mr&#160;Borrell, the Council is committed to an exchange of information with the European Parliament throughout the process.
The Council continues to act in accordance with the terms of the July declaration whereby the financial perspective should be negotiated in a spirit of loyal institutional cooperation, with the institutions willing to take all measures necessary for successful completion of the procedure leading to its adoption.
In this context, to conclude I wish to refer to the idea, also mentioned by Mr Wynn, of holding a monthly trialogue.
Based on my experience as President-in-Office, I should like to stress that the Council, and therefore the President-in-Office, will not be able to take a position in such a formal setting.
In such a context it would be preferable to continue the current practice of informal contacts between the presidency and representatives of the European Parliament.
Taking the discussions with Parliament’s specialist committees as our basis, we in the temporary committee are trying to define the political priorities for the years to come, and to put forward the upper limits for the structure of the European Budget, thereby laying down this House’s negotiating position ready for its discussions with the Council.
By doing this, we want to guarantee that, on the one hand, of course, traditional policies will be no less important and, on the other, that the European Union will present itself better, both internally and externally, and finally become what the Constitutional Treaty defines it as being – a Union of citizens and states.
That is why we are discussing among ourselves the political priorities on the basis of what value they add to Europe, and talking about how the European Budget can take greater account than hitherto of the Lisbon objectives, such as growth, employment and sustainability.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I see it as very important, in the light of past experience, that we should make it very clear that we want agreement to be reached in good time, thus preventing us from getting into difficulties – not so much with the Budget as with the legislative process.
Let me say, though, that we could end up, in the course of the coming year, with a worst case scenario, and then we will all need to have safety nets at the ready, such as those provided for the Budget in the Treaties and the Regulations, namely Article 26 of the Inter-Institutional Agreement or Article 272 of the Treaty.
That is why we will also, in this context, have to discuss the Court of Auditors’ Statement of Assurance and the issue of the financial regulation, and also whether, at the end of the day, financial programming should be for seven years or for four.
We all know that certain Member States have asked that payment appropriations for the next financial perspectives be below a certain percentage of the Union’s gross national product.
We have also heard rumours that other States defend that maximum, but applied to commitment appropriations, although it is not clear whether they are doing so in order to test the waters or whether they are truly convinced that that is sufficient to cover the real needs of the European Union.
Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Parliament is demanding – and previous speakers have done so – a commitment to a genuine and constant dialogue between the Council and Parliament.
If that is the case, I would like to say that, despite the apocalyptic description of a Community world without financial perspectives given by the Commissioner for budgets over recent days, increasing numbers of Members of Parliament will not accept financial perspectives which do not guarantee, and now I quote Mr Böge, ‘the correct implementation of the policies we have drawn up in the European Union’.
I would also like to tell the Council that nobody has more interest in the financial perspectives than Parliament, but not at any price.
At the end of the day, Mr President, we should never forget that the financial perspectives are an instrument, not an end in themselves. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we do know how difficult it is to bring about agreement between EU Heads of State or Government as to the framework for the EU Budget.
My group takes a different approach to these matters.
We look ahead to 2013 and to what we want to have achieved by that time.
The President of the Council spoke about a number of minor adjustments a moment ago, such as the limit on net contributions, but we also, of course, require something far more fundamental.
We should therefore discuss revenue on a more serious level.
Finally, many members of our group have taken a negative view of financing the work of the Union through special Eurotaxes, and in this matter we support the position of some Members of the Council. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as a member of the temporary committee, I abstained from voting on a resolution that I had not been allowed to study first and that I cannot support.
It is also regrettable that the Prodi Commission’s old report was taken as the basis for the Commission’s proposal.
I would opt for a different approach: we should start by talking about what expenditure is actually needed and then decide on the ceiling. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the first debate on the financial perspectives and, therefore, I hope that we will have another opportunity when the chairman of our parliamentary committee can participate.
For many reasons, Mr President, whether the work ends in an agreement in 2005 or in 2006 is important because, if we are obliged to defer the budget, as the Commissioner responsible for the budget acknowledged yesterday, it will be the cohesion policy that pays the price.
I would, therefore, like to draw the attention of certain Members to the risk to solidarity in the European Union of having an unjustified showdown between the European Parliament and the other institutions.
I do not know whether you have a magic wand or the capacity to perform miracles, or whether perhaps you intend to destroy cohesion for the old Member States, in other words, make the poor regions of the statistically or genuinely rich countries meet the cost of the economic development of the poor regions of the new Member countries.
What we do understand very well is that less money means less Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am glad to be able to greet you again so soon and to be dealing with you.
As many have said, what we are dealing with now is one of the greatest challenges we face, second only to the annual deliberations on the Budget.
You have said that we have to closely examine the individual policy areas in order to see what we can actually do, and what we want for Europe in the future, and the work you are doing reflects that.
We will, in future, have new tasks to take upon ourselves, and we will also have to talk about whether the existing policies as set down to date were shaped in the right way.
The fact is that the seven years we are talking about – a period running until 2013 – amounts to nine years from today.
You know every bit as well as we do that discussion of that is on the agenda.
So something else we want to discuss with you is the mechanisms that the revenue side requires, and what I would like you to tell us is whether you are willing to have us involved over and above the extent specified in the Treaty, whether you are willing to talk to us and take us seriously where expenditure and revenue are concerned, or whether that is where you want us to be completely detached.
Along with the financial perspective, the system of the EU’s own resources is to be reformed, as are several multi-annual programmes, including regional and structural policy.
All this will require an immense amount of work and familiarisation with the new arrangements on the part of Parliament, and good levels of cooperation from the different European Union institutions.
If there is no agreement on the financial perspective by the time of the deadline, the EU budget can be drafted reasonably successfully on the basis of Article 272 of the Treaty.
If regional planning comes to an end at the end of 2006, there will then be funds committed for only another year.
The only way we can continue with this debate in a responsible way is if you really do take some action, rather than merely engaging in the cautious diplomacy we have seen to date. &#160;&#160; When economic and social cohesion was discussed at the turn of the 1990s, the figures were different.
Naturally I had much more to say, but only had one minute in which to speak. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to the European Union, as it cannot resolve the problems Europe’s citizens and states are currently facing and will face in the future.
In economic terms, Europe is confronted with two basic problems.
The first is economic growth, which as a rule is slower in Europe than in the United States and Asia, with consequences such as high levels of unemployment and a fall in the competitiveness of businesses.
The second is the growing difference in income levels between the rich old Europe and the poor new Europe.
I have in mind the crisis of the family as a key institution.
If we consider the EU’s actions or proposed actions in this field, it becomes apparent that the EU lacks a vision of how to solve problems relating to economic growth and reducing differences, for example.
It also illustrated the horse-trading that goes on within, the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Worse still, as a result of the Lisbon strategy, expenditure on research and development will increase by 300%, with these funds going mainly to the old EU Member States, whereas expenditure on the Structural and Cohesion Funds will increase by only 30%, which means that backward countries will lag ever further behind highly--developed countries.
This goes for the Lisbon strategy and doubly so for the financial perspectives setting out the new financial framework of the enlarged European Union for the period 2007 – 2013.
During the 1990s, when the 15 Member States of the European Union were making a&#160;particular effort to flood the markets of the Eastern European countries, the average annual growth in productivity was 2.3%.
However, in all events, enlargement should not operate to the detriment of the current cohesion countries and should not operate to the detriment of the cohesion policies of the European Union.
Within this framework, I welcome the European Parliament's position that the Union needs satisfactory financing for the future, even though I am keeping a personal reservation for when we start discussing specific numbers.
Any delay here would have an adverse impact, because we need to know the regulations much earlier; the Member States and the regions need to prepare so that we do not lose time, as happened in the current programming period in 2000.
That is why I should like a clear position by the Council on the timetable and on the alternative solutions which, in my opinion, are out of the question for the Structural Funds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the debate on the financial perspectives is of strategic importance to the future of Europe.
The proposals submitted by the previous European Commission are, in our view, a good and balanced basis for discussion.
This is deceiving the citizens of the European Union.
The Community budget which met the needs of the European Union of the 15 Member States cannot efficiently meet the needs of the Union of 25 Member States today or of 27 tomorrow.
We, as the European Parliament, want there to be an agreement in good time, during 2005, on the financial perspectives which will guarantee the necessary and adequate financing for the policies of the European Union.
However, we wish to make clear that only a good and efficient agreement will be politically acceptable, an agreement which will efficiently safeguard development, employment, cohesion and solidarity for all citizens and all regions of the Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I share the opinion of many in this House that it is important to have an agreement about the financial perspectives for the future.
Secondly, that we are seeking a multiannual financial framework which will allow prompt planning of policies and programmes and, of course, that we reject four- or five-year scenarios.
Thirdly, and finally, the European Parliament should clearly state that it is not prepared to agree willy-nilly, if there are no guarantees that the policies which safeguard economic and social cohesion in the enlarged Europe of the 25 will be financed.
The Prodi package is simply a good starting point and we all need to agree that a bigger Europe with less money is out of the question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in many countries the public are getting the impression that they contribute too much to the EU’s Budget, while getting too little back.
They convey the impression that they pay too much, while concealing the fact that the European Union has never made full use of the financial framework that they have had a share in deciding.
The Europe of the future needs honest cooperation between the Council, Parliament, the European public and the Commission.
We call upon you to talk about the political priorities and to make available the funds that we need in order to carry out our tasks for the public’s benefit in a professional manner. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, four points should in my view take priority in this crucial debate: 1) the financial perspectives should be converted to the Lisbon parameters and objectives: the chapter on representativeness is the most important innovation introduced by the Commission proposal and should be strongly supported by Parliament; 2) the financing of the agricultural policy no longer reflects the new requirements of the European Union, even though the Commission has been unable to depart from the guidelines on this topic laid down by the Council; 3) it is important to provide for a transitional stage so as not to penalise those regions which, because of the so-called statistical effect, can no longer enjoy the support put aside for their development within the European Structural Funds, as will happen to certain regions in southern Italy; 4) we believe that the question of reforming the system of Member States’ contributions to the Union budget should not be put off indefinitely.
In a situation where ten new Member States have already joined the European Union and where Romania and Bulgaria will be joining in 2007 the funds available for regional policy should be increased.
That is why we would like to hear the European Council of Ministers answer this important question: does the European Council of Ministers consider it possible to renew priority status for regional policy and does it consider that the amount of funds allocated to European regional policy in the Prodi Commission’s proposal is adequate? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to ask the Council some more specific questions on the financial perspective.
I too assume that solidarity should be the guiding principle for the distribution of cohesion funds in the enlarged EU.
I would therefore like to draw the Council’s attention to two aspects of the Commission proposal which I find need further consideration.
Parliament should point out to the Commission – and to the Council – that, over and above the purely quantitative method for strengthening the Lisbon strategy, there is also the question of European participation in the quality of global economic parameters, because quantitative data only allow us to look at economic growth statically, without any positive or negative coefficients.
However, Japan, for example, has 3% and, precisely because it does not have these linkages, is now in recession and research and technology has not helped at all in getting it out of recession.
Two further preconditions are needed, the dissemination of technology – the linkages I mentioned – and, at the same time, the major problem in my view is that there must be recovery, because in times of recession, businesses – I am still referring to the 'research and technology' problem – only look at things from the point of view of their cash flow management and they are unable to push ahead with major technological inventions.
If the demand side is to work properly, there must be cooperation between what is now the single monetary policy and financial policy.
I should like to draw attention to this point, as it has mainly been representatives of the old Member States who have spoken so far in the debate, and this is an important distinction to make, as the views of the old and the new Member States on the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective differ greatly.
In my opinion, one of the most important priorities for this Perspective should be to consolidate economic growth in the ten new Member States, which is currently experiencing an upturn, as this will facilitate cohesion and equality within the EU as a whole.
This process must, however, be accompanied by one in which the ten poorest countries together with the two due to join the EU in the near future catch up with the developed part of Europe.
This is all the more necessary in view of the planned generosity towards regions in the old EU Member States which as a result of the ‘statistical effect’ will rise above the threshold of 75% of the EU’s average GDP as of 2007.
I should like to draw these issues to the attention of the Council representatives taking part in this debate, as they are related to the implementation of one of the enlarged EU’s most important priorities, namely reducing the development gap between the old and the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is important that we in this House should, today, seize the opportunity to have this opening debate.
I am delighted that Mr Nicolaï from the Council has indicated that we will be doing this more frequently in future and that we will, every month, have the opportunity to put our fingers on the pulse.
Nevertheless, this new Parliament has set very clear priorities with a view to pursuing the cohesion policy, because that proved effective in the past and because it has narrowed the gap between the differences between us in Europe.
The Kok report has shown quite emphatically that we cannot afford to rest on our laurels, but need to invest.
We will need more than that. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;We are preparing the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective at an exceptionally difficult time.
The temporary committee’s timetable and working methods should include an examination of the positions and priorities of the Prodi Commission and the previous Parliament.
An assessment of the current enlargement should also be carried out, and plans made for future enlargements.
These are tasks to be tackled by the new European Commission, with the Member States playing a major role.
It would therefore be a good idea for there to be a review of the new Financial Perspective after it has been in operation for three years, and for it to be adjusted as necessary.
It should not be forgotten that in 2009 there will be a new Parliament and a new European Commission, and provision should be made now for those key EU institutions to have the right to put forward proposals and make certain amendments.
The fundamental decisions on the new Financial Perspective for 2007-2013, however, are a matter for the Member States and the Council.
Let me start by responding to the issue of the timing, the timeframe and planning which we in the Council follow and has been questioned by some of you, first of all by Mr Böge, but subsequently also by Mrs Schroedter and Mr Hatzidakis.
Some of you, including Mr Galeote Quecedo, have enquired after the precise state of affairs in connection with the timing and the schedule.
That means that we then hope to take a decision about the principles and guidelines for the financial perspectives, as well as the package, the survey of what we have achieved by means of the building-block approach.
As Mr Böge made explicit, one general point of departure is the discussion about the added value of what is happening at European level.
I am addressing you as President of the Council.
As President, I have done precisely those things that a number of you regard as grounds for criticism, Mr Karas, for example, who urged me to talk about priorities, or others who questioned how I could solve this problem from a financial point of view.
What the building-block approach tries to do quite simply is to combine, classify and put into a readily understood format the different positions of different Member States in terms of category and subject, thus enabling us in the Council to make more informed decisions politically speaking.
Not expenditure, but revenue and own resources, which one or two of you briefly mentioned.
One or two Members of this House also mentioned the generic correction mechanism.
The Commission proposed to open this possibility for the next financial perspectives in 2014.
I can inform you that the Council is currently discussing that and that it will continue to do so.
The Commission has proposed to apply the seven-year term once more, and this is also still being discussed in the Council.
We have not adopted a position on this.
First of all, at all times, but certainly now during the preparations of these financial perspectives, the Council listens very carefully to the opinions, remarks, signals or resolutions in the European Parliament.
I cannot speak formally on behalf of the Luxembourg Presidency, but I can say that it seems a good idea to me to continue the informal way in which contacts between Council and the European Parliament have been established during the preparatory stages.
I do not entertain the worst-case scenarios one or two in this House have suggested in connection with the question as to what we will do if things do not go to plan.
As you know, the negotiations were tough and in a tense atmosphere.
If truth be told, the Council’s and Parliament’s starting positions were very different, but we have struck a sound compromise.
I think that that should be an example of how we can look toward the multi-annual budget. &#160;&#160; I have received a motion for a resolution (B6-0189/2004) on behalf of the Temporary committee on policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged Union 2007-2013.
I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with Mr Cohn-Bendit that the EU-Russia summit was more than a discussion on Ukraine.
This strategic partnership is also important for us.
Together we can handle not only difficult issues of mutual importance but we can also address important international issues such as the environment and the fight against terrorism.
During the last six months we have made substantial progress; we have been able more or less to complete negotiations on two of the four spaces, namely on economics, research, education and culture.
We hope that at the next summit in May 2005 in Moscow we will be able to reach agreement on all four spaces.
The EU wants to lift the level of cooperation between the EU and Russia to a higher level, but this has to be across the board.
It is important to note that, whilst negotiations on this basis are ongoing, we will try to intensify EU-Russia relations wherever possible whilst respecting our principles.
Both Russia and the EU have agreed that the WTO accession is important for Russia.
Russia should thus increase the confidence of foreign investors.
The most important issue is the question of the EU's desire for readmission agreements, which is linked to the Russian desire for visa facilitation as well as the long-term objective of a visa-free regime.
We consider respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms to be of paramount importance and therefore an importance element of this space.
We raised the issues of Chechnya and the situation in the Northern Caucasus as well as the position of the media with our Russian partners during the summit.
The EU asked Russia about its objections to the notion of a common neighbourhood, which we consider to be important for the common space of external security.
Regarding the fight against terrorism, during a visit by Gijs de Vries, our counter-terrorism coordinator, President Putin said that Mr de Vries was highly valued by his Russian counterpart.
Moscow was very interested in EU policy developments such as document security.
Russia also wants to exchange data with Europol, Eurojust, etc.
The EU is in principle ready for this, but first Moscow has to ratify the Council of Europe's Convention on Data Protection.
President Putin committed himself to this and I hope that this commitment will bear fruit shortly.
Whoever becomes President should be the President of all Ukrainian people and the territorial integrity of Ukraine should be respected.
The EU and Russia have had and still have differences, but that is only natural.
Russia has to get used to the fact that in more that one respect we have become closer neighbours, whose interests are not always identical.
However, we are able to discuss those issues freely and in a very frank manner, and that is essential for a strategic relationship.
At the summit on 25 November, it became clear that we could talk in a very good, business-like atmosphere, and the discussions were also very detailed.
This package was the focus of our negotiations.
We also raised such issues as the investment climate in Russia and, in this connection, the situation of YUKOS.
We have also decided, as Mr&#160;Nicolaï mentioned, that the common economic area will particularly deal with environmental issues.
This will make it possible for us to step up our bilateral cooperation, but above all cooperation in international forums on climate protection.
In the second area, the area for freedom, security and law, we decided to continue our intensive discussions, during which equal account must be taken of the aspects of security, on the one hand, and freedom and law on the other.
In addition, this area will continue to deal with issues such as terrorism, organised crime, corruption and trafficking in human beings.
In addition, we offered to step up our cooperation in the fight against drugs, for example with third countries such as Afghanistan, or also with the United Nations, which plays an important role in this respect.
Turning to Chechnya, we made an offer to Russia to assist in the reconstruction of the country, as soon as the security situation makes this possible.
It did of course become clear that we still need to convince Russia that cooperation on issues of common security is in both our interests; we also discussed the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism and civil protection as part of closer cooperation.
We also, finally, want to extend our cooperation in the field of research, education and culture.
Our goal in this field is again to promote contacts between our societies and, above all, to continue to promote innovation.
Secondly, we agreed to hold regular consultations on human rights issues, including the issues of minorities and fundamental rights, which Mr Nicolaï has already mentioned.
I can say that we agreed that the situation can be resolved only by peaceful means and within the framework of the Ukrainian constitution.
We said that the Ukrainian people had a right to decide its own future and the future of the country.
Despite all the differences of opinion on this issue, we should not forget how much also connects us with Russia, this large country and our partner, and we must therefore do everything in our power to eliminate differences, to make progress and to find joint solutions. &#160;&#160; .
The truth is that you have taken up your responsibilities at a very delicate time on the international scene; you have been at the International Conference on Iraq; you have met on the sidelines with the Quartet to deal with the relaunch of the Roadmap for the Middle East peace process following the death of Yasser Arafat; you have had to attend this European Union-Russia Summit; we have the political crisis in Ukraine.
I believe, Commissioner, that it is important for the Commission to have a defined policy of friendly relations, but on the basis of our values; to this end, we must also closely monitor the measures taken recently by the Russian authorities, in terms of the always difficult balance between security and freedom, following the attacks in North Osetia, in a decentralised manner.
I am not saying this in order to justify Russia’s position, but this position must also be viewed from a psychological viewpoint.
It was therefore vital not to say, with regard to Ukraine, that there is a Russian candidate and an EU candidate, but to say that there can only be candidates elected by the Ukrainian people to be their president.
The fact is that we will have a major interest in Russian energy supplies only when we are sure that energy will never be used as a political weapon and that the supply will not be cut off on political grounds, in other words, only when there is an open investment climate in Russia.
With regard to the issue of human rights, I am fully in favour of dialogue.
We also have nothing to hide with regard to the treatment of Russian-speaking minorities in the European Union and with regard to the situation of such minorities, as we have done a lot for them, and it is to be hoped that we will continue to do so.
Russia must justify itself to its own people, and, in common with the European Union, Russia must also justify itself to the world at large.
Russia is our neighbour and, because of its size, history and position, the country can play an extremely important role and be a constructive partner on the continent of Europe.
I am thinking of the concentration of power in the Kremlin, of the media situation – in principle, media freedom is a thing of the past – and of the lack of a political solution in Chechnya.
Relations between the EU and Russia are in a critical phase, and we cannot describe the latest meeting as anything other than a failure, even though I genuinely admire and sympathise with your optimism, Commissioner.
You stated that a decision had been made in favour of deeper and more organised cooperation when it came to human rights and minorities.
I have listened carefully to what you said, Commissioner.
After all, we all know there is no peace in Chechnya, that a peace process is being imposed that has no support base and that human rights are being violated on a daily basis.
I have gleaned this from the most recent book by Anna Politkovskaya, an independent journalist who writes in her new book ‘Putin’s Russia’ how in Russia, human rights are being violated on a daily basis, how the grip of central government on the press is being tightened every day and how the power of the KGB/FSB is increasing.
I am also surprised by the fact that the Russians are even putting governments, including the Belgian Government, under pressure to deny Mr Zakayev access to this country and to this Parliament.
In recent days, the second of these has become particularly apparent, that is, the fear of Russia as a major partner and a major country to the East.
It has been said that Russia is interfering in Ukraine’s domestic affairs.
Yet what action is being taken by the European Union and our representatives?
This should not be the case.
If we wish to demand democratic standards of Russia, we should first demand them of ourselves, and do everything in our power to ensure that we observe these standards.
Kaliningrad, which borders directly onto the European Union and Poland, should be of the utmost importance to us, as it is a window onto the world in terms of trade.
Yet as a result of our panic-stricken reaction to the events in Ukraine, Russia has tightened restrictions on people passing through border crossings, in particular those into Kaliningrad.
We have much to lose by adopting such a schizophrenic approach in our relations with Russia.
Finally, I should like to add that the EU has interfered enough in the domestic affairs of independent states, in this case in those of Russia.
In a certain sense, this has meant that our votes on this issue have been disregarded.
The country with which we are negotiating a road map for implementation of the PCA and the country actively interfering in the electoral process in Ukraine are one and the same country. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in my country children’s programmes are broadcast after 7&#160;p.m.
I am delighted this debate is taking place today.
It would have been wrong to replace it with the debate on Ukraine, as Ukraine is one country and Russia is another, even if Russia, or part of Russia, still thinks or wants to think in terms of the Soviet Union or the Tsarist Empire.
I am also delighted for a second reason, namely that Mr&#160;Barroso and Mr&#160;Putin had major differences of opinion at the recent summit in The Hague, and that these differences of opinion did not merely relate to Ukraine.
The most obvious conclusion is that these were not in fact relations between Brussels and Moscow, but between Russia and the individual EU Member States, in particular the largest Member States.
In spite of what is said by some in Europe, and what was said earlier by some of the Members of this House, we should not fear such differences.
In the days after this summit we saw that we were right in our assessment of political events in Ukraine, and this continues to be the case today.
Thanks to the position taken by the Dutch Presidency, the EU is gaining face in the eyes of the European nations, after a long period during which too many European leaders pretended not to see, or indeed did not see, the problems which arose with regard to relations with Russia in the past, such as the centralisation of power at the cost of a still-fragile democracy, Russia’s policy on the Caucasus or the reconstruction of the Russian ‘sphere of influence’.
Immigrants have formed a new group of American citizens that voted for the Republicans in the last elections.
Defence Minister Donald Rumsfeld has said that we have new Europeans in the same way.
These newcomers, however, have had a different relationship with the United States (not for very much longer, in my opinion, as our work gradually hones that relationship), and Russia, through a grim and difficult history as part of the Soviet Union or as one of its satellites.
The problems relate to both America and Russia, but relations with Russia are virtually at a standstill.
There is, however, a long list of problems with regard to the investment protection accord in Chechnya, which has been mentioned here too.
We should strongly support the efforts of the Council and Commission to use the opportunity provided by the summit to underline that Russia, the partner of the European Union, carries a great responsibility in our common neighbourhood, and in Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus in particular.
We should also firmly reject the allegations recently made by the Russian authorities that the European Union and the international community, by expressing their support for the Ukrainian people’s right to exercise their constitutional rights, is encouraging violence in Ukraine.
In this context we should express our concern about the centralisation of Kremlin powers at the expense of democracy, independent media, the regions, the rule of law and human rights, especially with regard to the situation in Chechnya and the Yukos affair.
At the same time I believe that ratification of broad agreements between the Russian Federation and certain Member States of the Union is one of the keys to strengthening the EU-Russia partnership and encouraging mutual understanding and trust.
Finally, the Kaliningrad region, as an important factor for the overall development of the Baltic Sea area, was also discussed in the Hague.
Russia thus continues to play a large role in terms of stability, especially in the area around the EU’s eastern borders.
It must not, however, actively side with the dictatorships there or impede the development of democracy.
The events in connection with the election in Serbia a few years ago, which resulted in Milosevic’s departure, are very reminiscent of what is happening now in Ukraine.
Then, the crisis was resolved peacefully, and we must ensure that this crisis too is resolved peacefully.
In that case, Europe needs, on the one hand, to show itself prepared to cooperate with Russia and, on the other hand, to emphasise that Russia should not interfere in other countries’ internal affairs, irrespective of the common history these countries and Russia may previously have had.
If Russia seriously wants to be a strategic cooperation partner of the EU, it must be clear that the cornerstones of such cooperation have to be freedom, mutual respect and the democratic values shared by the EU countries.
I have no specific questions for Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner but wish to emphasise that neither the EU nor Russia should ever have interests in another country other than an interest in democracy and that this must be both a basis for, and an objective of, cooperation between the EU and Russia. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Ukraine is being born in front of our very eyes and those of Russia.
According to our documents, however, Russia has great responsibility, – in my view, the greatest.
It looks like the Russian President would be in favour of completely restarting the election process, so that the opposition leader could be eliminated.
If the resigning president of Ukraine is going to listen to such advice and announce a decree to organise not just the second round but completely new elections, Russia will be responsible for the consequences.
The European Parliament or the European Commission – I am directing my comments to Mrs Ferrero Valdner here – could officially ask the Russian Government, or at least its representatives, if the reports by the Moscow press about Russian special armed forces being brought into Kiev dressed in Ukrainian uniforms are correct.
President Putin’s friends should speak directly with him, not via Mr Kuchma, and unanimously advise him to choose the first option.
As I said before, the EU insisted on quality and on putting together a package that really does enable us to push through our concerns and our values, which are of course very important to us.
The issue at stake here is the finding of mutual interests, but this presupposes care before links are forged, and must be founded on values rather than on interests.
One example of a success is that at the WTO negotiations we came to a bilateral agreement on private transport to and from Kaliningrad.
I inform the House that at the end of the debate I have received two motions for resolutions.
As you know, they are limited to one minute each. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to inform you that the salami producer Igloomeat&#160;SA Sokołów Polska has asked to be deleted from Appendix&#160;12 to the Treaty of Accession.
It therefore applied to be included in the list of establishments exporting products to the EU Member States, but Igloomeat’s management has not yet received any decision.
The first the men knew of the international arrest warrant was last month – over seven years later – when John Packwood was arrested as he passed through Malaga airport.
He is now in prison in Madrid and that is completely unacceptable.
The international NGO, Fair Trials Abroad, has agreed that this appears to be a blatant abuse of the international arrest warrant, since it is quite clear that the men could not have been involved in any smuggling operation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 17 November many Members of this House will have seen the appalling abuse of international football players at an international match between Spain and England, held in Spain.
The Council got it wrong.
It should have persisted and tackled these important issues in order to end animal cruelty in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, by a strange coincidence I would like to raise exactly the same point.
I have had literally hundreds of letters from concerned EU citizens on the Council’s failure to reach an agreement on 24 April on the Commission’s proposal on the transportation of live animals.
As Mrs Villiers said, this Parliament has on four or five occasions voted for a maximum journey time of eight or nine hours.
I hope the Council will at long last respond, not just to this Parliament but to the citizens of the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask Parliament to call on the European Commission to abolish or temporarily suspend customs duties on aluminium imported from Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States into the new Member States of the EU, in particular Poland.
These customs duties were introduced after the recent enlargement of the EU and set at 6%.
In Poland, for example, these customs duties directly affect businesses employing 5&#160;000&#160;people, as well as many thousands of businesses associated with the aluminium industry.
Today in particular, on 1 December, which has been designated 'World AIDS Day', I think it is important that we exchange views and a few thoughts as to how this scourge can be combated.
Today has been designated 'World AIDS Day' in order to mark, on the one hand, the progress which has been made in combating this scourge.
Over recent years, most of our attention has focused on the tragic situation in sub-Saharan Africa and in developing countries in general.
However, HIV/AIDS is causing very deep and constantly increasing concern here in Europe and our neighbouring countries.
The subject of this year's global campaign against AIDS was women, girls, HIV and AIDS.
Recent epidemiological data show that, over the last two years, the number of women affected by the HIV virus increased throughout the world.
While the largest increase, in the order of 58%, was in the area of eastern Asia, it is worth noting that the second largest increase was in Eastern Europe and central Asia, where it reached 48%.
In the European Union, the number of cases of HIV increased by 75% between 1996 and 2003, with the largest increase in the Baltic States.
In Europe, the country which has been hardest hit by the epidemic is the Russian Federation, where it is calculated that over 800 000 people are HIV positive, 80% of whom are young people under 30 years of age.
According to UNAIDS estimates, over 500 000 people in the European Union are carriers of the virus.
It is clear without any doubt from these statistics that the tragic problem of HIV/AIDS is spreading more and more quickly and now has not only arrived at our door, but has also entered our house.
Similarly, we are intensifying our cooperation with neighbouring countries, in full recognition of the fact that they are in a particularly difficult situation.
The Commission's main commitments are to the prevention of new cases of contamination with HIV, the reduction of repercussions from the epidemic, access to antiretroviral treatment at more affordable prices, the inclusion of young people, the development of epidemiological monitoring of HIV/AIDS, more intensive research and the participation of civil society.
However, I should also like to draw your attention to certain basic aspects of efforts to combat HIV/AIDS.
Prevention is still the main weapon in the fight against the spread of the virus.
It is important for us to bear in mind that the information campaigns of the 1980s did not address today's young people and, consequently, there is an acute need today to implement new efforts, so that we can send the message to precisely these people.
Planning has already started and a conference is due to be held next week with the Member States, the international organisations and representatives of civil society on this subject.
As the target of a general campaign will be the general public and young people, there is a clear need for other partners to plan and implement specialised campaigns targeted at vulnerable groups, in keeping always with the particular requirements of each group.
On the contrary, HIV/AIDS is a subject which concerns us all: women, men, girls and boys, and it is a subject which concerns us here and now.
It is calculated that a large percentage of people with the HIV virus living in the European Union do not know they have it.
As a result, the risk of the virus spreading is increasing and, naturally, these people cannot benefit from the treatment available.
Nonetheless, certain Member States have expressed their concern about the future: if, or rather when, the number of cases of HIV spirals and the cost of treatment remains high.
At macro-economic level, HIV/AIDS results in increased health care and social security costs.
In brief, the HIV/AIDS epidemic represents a very serious threat to global health, development and security.
However, over and above the economic aspect, HIV/AIDS is also a problem with respect to human rights.
The stigma and adverse discrimination are subjects which concern Europe, as much as any other part of the planet, and they cannot be overlooked.
The subject of HIV/AIDS can no longer be a taboo subject.
All of us, especially the institutions of the European Union, the European Parliament, the European Commission and, above all, the Member States, need to recognise and accept the new worrying increase in the HIV/AIDS problem.
Ten years ago, 183 people were registered as having HIV/AIDS there, today, in 2004, it is 68 000.
Across the world nearly 40 million people have HIV and, as the Commissioner said, we must take action to prevent and solve these problems.
There are 15&#160;million orphans in the world, 12.3 million of them are in sub-Saharan Africa.
We have to take action along the lines of our resolution; we have to take action on HIV/AIDS and on conditions, disorders and diseases such as tuberculosis, hepatitis C, mental illness and depression.
I also welcome the work done in this field by Pavel Telicka during his time as a Commissioner.
I should, above all, like to thank Human Aids for the fact that during this year’s World AIDS Day, it will be focusing on women and girls and HIV/AIDS.
The figures speak for themselves.
AIDS is increasingly taking on a feminine face; the number of women infected with HIV/AIDS is rising at a terrifying rate.
These women are vulnerable on account of the social inequality and the lack of access to education and healthcare, as well as on account of the fact that they do not have their own incomes and are often incapable of negotiating about their own sexuality.
I should also like to add the letter E for empowerment, because the fight against AIDS is simply impossible without reinforcing the rights of women and without combating violence against them.
It is, of course, not enough that well-meaning Commissioners such as yourself or Commissioner Michel should be committed to the fight against AIDS.
I hope that the European Union will continue to take the lead in order to mobilise more financial resources for the fight against HIV/AIDS, but also to improve cooperation among the Member States on the basis of a coherent multiannual plan.
I also think that Europe should do more to increase the financial commitments.
By 2008, we should be able to treble our financial commitments, in my view.
Finally, it appears to me essential that women be personally involved in drawing up a global plan of this kind – especially women and girls who live with HIV/AIDS, for they are not only its victims, but also vital partners in working out a sound policy.
The majority of new infections involve young people aged between 15 and 25, and in particular women.
Abstinence is of course also a form of protection against Aids, but it should be left to individuals to decide whether they wish to practice abstinence or use condoms.
The most important pillars of prevention are sex education without taboos and access to condoms, above all in schools and for young people.
I am delighted that Commissioner Kyprianou placed particular emphasis on this.
In many African and Asian countries, Aids is depopulating entire regions, for example South Africa, where over half of the population is infected with the virus.
I should like to appeal to the EU Member States’ sense of responsibility and the commitments they have already entered into.
We welcome the fact that some Member States, for example the United Kingdom, Sweden and the Netherlands, have provided financial support for the international fund over and above what they committed themselves to.
Unfortunately, some of the other Member States have either not met their commitments at all, or only in part.
Above all, it is the task of the Western societies to put up a fight against this epidemic.
We need discussions without taboos in Western societies on new methods of prevention, as especially African and Asian societies are dependent on help from outside, or, to put it another way, from us. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank the Commission for its sound statement.
Millions of people in the South suffer from HIV/AIDS and, weakened by HIV, they often fall victim to other diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis.
Exemptions from the TRIPS agreement permit the export of generic medicines, but the EU countries have been slow in implementing such exemptions, a dilatoriness that leads to suffering and that, each day that passes, increases the suffering and the number of deaths.
Better access to medicines must, however, be combined with increased knowledge of HIV and increased provision of information about the disease, together with an ambitious aid policy and fair trade so that the countries concerned can afford economic development that increases trade. &#160;&#160; . – The scenario that has been illustrated here is not just the result of a natural disaster but represents a tragic synthesis between an aggressive virus and the unbridled drive for profit by single-minded, powerful organisations like the multinational pharmaceutical companies.
While 95% of HIV-positive people in the world already have no access to treatment today, the situation is bound to get even worse after 1 January 2005, when the derogation from Article 31 of the TRIPS agreement expires.
Even now, those who produce them cannot sell them to other developing countries or to African countries.
According to Fortune, the average salary of the top nine pharmaceutical company directors in the world is USD 42 million a year.
It is part of the toolkit needed to defeat the virus. &#160;&#160; Mr Commissioner, today World AIDS Day and your statement on this subject was, in my opinion, very good, but it was still just a&#160;statement.
Today’s AIDS Day calls on us to be aware of the kind of decisions that we have to take as politicians.
These are alarming figures.
The EU is the second largest donor to the global Aids fund, provided around 18% of the total funds.
Yet we are faced with the fact that new infections are rising dramatically, both within the EU and in other countries.
Commissioner Kyprianou said in a press release that many young people who are currently becoming infected were too young to understand the first Aids campaign.
Yet it is also necessary to remember that many young people are quite simply given false information, with, above all, Aids being depicted today as a treatable disease.
Something I find particularly worrying is the lack of awareness of the problem among young people, who, when asked in interviews why they have such a lax attitude to the disease, reply, ‘which life should I protect myself for?’ I therefore believe that the plan drawn up by the Commission must also include this holistic approach, and, above all, combine education and possibly also giving meaning to life with the whole field. &#160;&#160; Mr President, of the 40&#160;million people suffering from AIDS, 70% live in Africa.
Europe spends too little of its development cooperation budget on basic health care, which should be linked to good nutrition, access to clean drinking water and basic education.
Commissioner Michel has stated that he will make a new announcement in which Europe’s priorities in terms of development cooperation will be specified.
According to the UN, of the 45 million people at risk of infection, 27 million would, if we had a specific campaign, be preventable cases.
We have a great deal of experience in campaigns of that kind globally.
Finally, the Vatican spoke a few days ago through Javier Cardinal Lozano Barragán, President of the Pontifical Council for Health Pastoral Care, about immunity, moral deficit and pathology of the mind as causes of AIDS that have to be combated with correct sexual practices.
I regard this as a discriminating and stigmatising remark and believe that Commissioner Kyprianou was right to say that we should not stigmatise AIDS patients in that way.
I am pleased that in principle, the Commissioner has given the Vatican a clear response with this. &#160;&#160; – This year’s UNAIDS report on the trends in the epidemic has been even more distressing than in the past: the projections for sub-Saharan Africa and for its survival in the new century are extremely grave.
If we really want to combat this disease, we have to fight it at its social, economic and ethical roots by raising the standards of living and the levels of prevention and treatment in the worst-affected countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to raise two points regarding the tragic situation in certain developing countries.
Those services have, unfortunately, been badly affected in recent years by structural adjustment plans undertaken in those countries, especially in Africa.
We must also offer all our support to local initiatives launched by civil society and to networks, on the ground, of local representatives and authorities, associations, carers and mediators from the societies in question, who have been working together to combat AIDS, with some success.
These two aspects show, therefore, that AIDS is as much a social problem as it is a medical problem.
Now, the world has finally woken up, but efforts at prevention are still insufficient.
If we do not do more than we are doing at present to prevent the spread of the epidemic, it will, according to experts, not reach its biological culmination until 2060.
I dare not think of what the consequences would be in terms of human suffering and economic and social crisis.
The Commission has made a superhuman effort in recent years in its strategy to combat HIV but, just like Mr&#160;Bowis and Mrs&#160;Van&#160;Lancker, I think that we need to take far more ambitious steps in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on World AIDS Day, I would like to begin, as other Members have done, by alerting the institutions to the most dramatic aspect of this tragedy: its spread amongst women and girls.
By doing so, as well as acting in accordance with my personal political commitment to women, I am stressing the enormity of the problem in human terms, in terms of development and in terms of the future of the world.
Half of the 40 million people infected with the virus are women and girls, and this proportion is increasing in almost every region, reaching 57% in Sub-Saharan Africa.
The social norms which keep young women and girls ignorant about sexuality and do not criminalise sexual violence inside and outside marriage increase the danger of the infection spreading.
The Socialist Group would like to congratulate the Commission on treating education as a priority in its political framework for combating diseases relating to poverty.
I would like secondly, Mr President, to express a complaint.
We are talking about life or death; we do not know whether the Episcopal Conference has understood this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to congratulate my colleague Mr Seeber on his maiden speech in this House.
Aids is a disease of our times and a mirror of what has gone wrong in our society.
I call upon this House to not shirk this global responsibility and to ensure that we are number one in the world in the research against Aids. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, today, the European Parliament is observing International AIDS Day.
In certain areas, young women are up to two and a half times more vulnerable to infection than young men of the same age.
In certain countries, nearly 60% of the people infected are women.
Many women and girls are especially vulnerable to infection because of other people’s – that is to say, men’s – behaviour in terms of risk and because of the discrimination widely practised in the world between men and women when it comes to views of sexuality and sexual rights.
The consequences of the HIV/AIDS epidemic are far greater for women and children than for men and boys.
When the health care systems are over-stretched or when they collapse as a result of HIV/AIDS, it is women and girls who have to compensate for the fact by providing increased care and attention in the home.
Old, traditional views, such as the view that men have a right to sex, also mean that many married women cannot protect themselves against infection introduced by their husbands after they have been unfaithful.
Gender equality, together with sexual and reproductive health and rights, need to be common objectives for every country in the world and, above all, a responsibility for all men.
Women must be strengthened in their negotiating position when it comes to condom use and, without exception, given increased rights and better conditions of life.
We are all losers now, but tests are now beginning in Sweden on a new medicine to combat HIV.
A preventive vaccine is no doubt what we all dream of, so let us hope for a positive result. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have listened very closely to the issues raised and the views formulated during the present debate.
I must say that it truly satisfies and heartens me to hear that the honourable Members not only share my acute concern on the subject of HIV/AIDS, but also my firm conviction that we need to make a full and effective contribution towards relieving the terrible hardship which is causing this epidemic, both in the rest of the world and in the European Union.
We need in particular to understand the gravity of this problem today.
Allow me, however, to comment on certain issues raised by the honourable Members.
I wish to assure you that the entire European Commission, all my colleagues and I are aware of this issue.
We share the same concerns and we have set the same targets and I wish to assure you that there will be full coordination between me and all my colleagues in combating this problem, in drafting and implementing programmes in this direction.
As far as the question of research is concerned, may I remind you that, for the vaccine in particular, research into an HIV vaccine is a priority under the sixth framework programme for research and development and we expect up to EUR 130 million to be earmarked for research into an HIV vaccine.
As far as drugs are concerned, may I remind you that I absolutely agree that there must be access to cheap drugs for everyone who has a problem with this disease, especially of course for poor countries and poor sections of the population who cannot meet these high treatment costs.
This point is currently at the codecision stage and I trust that, judging from other cases in the past on highly sensitive issues, a study will be expedited rapidly so that this proposal can be completed as quickly as possible, and that this proposal will provide the possibility of access precisely to cheap drugs.
One of the serious problems which we face today with regard to the spread of this disease is that, because of this pressure, many people are suffering from or have been affected by the virus and not even they themselves know it.
Finally, I should like to assure you once again that the European Commission is truly dedicated to these efforts to combat this scourge.
There is no room for complacency; we need to continue with the same intense effort, to show the same zeal in preventing and stopping the spread of this illness.
Unfortunately, the strategy for this fight proposed in the joint motion for a resolution, a strategy based on the promotion of ‘reproductive and sexual rights’, excludes millions of people in Europe and the world.
The reason for this is that millions of people throughout the world do not believe that any benefit can result from the promotion of abortion and contraception and from the provision of sex education to ever-younger children in violation of the rights of parents and without their knowledge or consent.
Some African countries, such as Uganda, have significantly reduced the number of infections, not by promoting the use of condoms, but by encouraging a move towards abstinence and more responsible sexual behaviour.
May I also congratulate your rapporteur, Mr Coelho, on his valuable contribution to this debate.
The primary objective of the Member States was not only to improve the quality of documents, but also to establish a reliable link between the holder and the identity document.
In September 2003, the Commission presented two proposals introducing biometric identifiers into the uniform format for visas and residence permits for third-country nationals.
Ministers reached a unanimous political agreement that the first biometric identifier, the facial image, should be implemented at the latest within 18 months and the second biometric identifier, should also be mandatory at the latest 36 months after the adoption of the technical specifications.
As regards the timing, the European Council in its conclusions on terrorism of 26 March, set the end of 2004 as the date for the adoption of the proposals and the technical specifications.
Mr President, the 19 amendments tabled by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs are primarily concerned with data protection issues.
As regards revising the comitology procedure, the amendments cannot be accepted, because this procedure is the result of an interinstitutional agreement and a Council decision in 1998-1999 laying down the general procedure applicable to committees.
The&#160;Commission considers, in fact, that this unanimous decision clearly symbolises a new political will to harmonise across the Member States the ability to ensure – on the basis of elements such as fingerprints, which are more reliable than simple digital images – that identity document holders are the individuals referred to therein.
EU Member States have in fact shown their political will to have two biometric identifiers.
It is crucial that we strengthen our citizens’ security, and yet we must do this without compromising essential freedoms, including the right to personal data privacy.
The proposal before us today was submitted to Parliament in February 2004 and is the result of a coherent approach towards biometric identifiers involving harmonised solutions on national documents from third countries, on EU citizens’ passports and on the Visa Information System and the second generation of the Schengen Information System.
Parliament is entirely justified in the importance that it attaches to data protection.
I therefore fully endorsed the proposed amendments tabled in the letter from the Article 29 Working Party and I emphasise the need for measures relating to access; in other words, who is entitled to access and for what purpose.
The Member States must draw up a list of the competent authorities, of guarantees relating to people who cannot provide certain of the selected biometric data, such as fingerprints, as in the case of burn victims or amputees, and of guarantees to the effect that when border checks are carried out and a false rejection occurs, the citizens concerned will be informed of the reasons for such a rejection and of the means to be employed in order to clarify and rectify the situation as quickly as possible.
Lastly, new functions must be granted to the supervisory authorities in this area, along with an increase in the resources needed to carry out those new functions.
To conclude, I should like to mention the four questions that are crucial to the adoption of this report.
Secondly, there is the question of the database.
The fourth and last point concerns amendments to the initial proposal.
From a political point of view, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs had already adopted, by a large majority, the introduction of both biometric identifiers, with the sole difference that it left the adoption of the second to the Member States’ discretion.
I therefore feel that there should not be any objections to Parliament voting in favour of this report.
I would like to welcome Mr Coelho’s report – it is an excellent piece of work.
On behalf of my Group, however, I have to state that we are not happy that there has not been time for Parliament to be reconsulted on the new proposals from the Council.
The reality is that our citizens want freedom of movement not only within our borders, but outside those borders too.
In this area we must be extremely vigilant.
Access to data must be carefully regulated by national legislation in accordance with the provisions of Community law, European law and our international agreements.
In conclusion, I welcome the protection of citizens’ rights and freedoms as contained in Articles 2 and 3 of the Council document agreed on 23 November 2004.
I commend Mr Coelho’s report and in particular Amendments 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, which reinforce citizens’ rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I am delighted that you are still here at this late hour.
I should firstly like to thank Mr Coelho for his report on the Council’s proposal to include biometric data in identity documents, which from a liberal point of view was on the whole balanced and justifiably critical.
After the relevant committee issued its opinion on the proposal, the Council presented us with an amended proposal, with amendments which were clearly more than merely editorial or cosmetic changes.
The new proposal we have before us is quite different.
The Commissioner’s answer implied that the subsidiarity principle was being circumvented here, as a number of Member States had no interest in implementing the proposal.
The other question – and I know that my time is nearly up, but I have one more question I should like answered – is: what kind of way is this to act?
The Commission has not yet provided Parliament with the requested information on the scope and seriousness of the problem of false documents, the results of previous improvements in document security and the error rate of the various biometric options, in particular the lack of reliability of fingerprints, the intrusive nature of their use and the risk of misuse.
Yesterday the Chairman of the Article 29 data protection working party sent a letter to the Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, in which he pointed out that the working party does not have enough information on which tests have been conducted, what their outcomes were, or on which basis the Council decision had been taken.
Therefore the working party expressed its reservations as to the use of biometric procedures that have not proved efficient, in particular the compulsory use of biometric features such as fingerprints.
For the Verts/ALE Group, it is clear that the introduction of two biometric identifiers can represent a threat to security through risks of abuse, technological flaws and lack of transparency and data protection.
We are therefore suggesting that only one biometric identifier be integrated, namely a digital photograph in visas, residence permits and passports. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to add to the criticism expressed in this House.
Yes, says the Council, and the report submissively concurs, of course, irrespective of the fact that these demands are synonymous with a huge extension of the police surveillance that the EU has been developing in recent years.
The scandal consists in the fact that neither the report nor the Council’s decision contains any serious discussion of the relationship between ends and means.
In recent days, this scandal has taken on the character of a farce.
The consultation of Parliament, ostensibly based upon Article&#160;67 of the EC Treaty, is clearly inadequate, and a future Council decision would therefore be invalid.
I adhere to the minority opinion, issued by myself and a number of fellow MEPs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 25&#160;October, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs voted on the report by Mr Coelho.
It was already apparent that biometric details would soon be included in passports, and Mr Coelho tried to subject this to a number of conditions in order to safeguard the privacy of citizens in any case, for which credit is due to him.
I am convinced that the governments that are represented in that self-same Council will, in the national debates about this issue, point the finger at Europe once criticism gets underway; that, they will say, is what Europe prescribes.
It was suggested to him that this was immoral, but, to his mind, it was simply politics. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I join with the previous speakers in extending a warm welcome to Commissioner Frattini and congratulating Mr Coelho, the rapporteur.
The previous speakers have already drawn attention to the lack of cohesion in the democratic process where this issue is concerned.
The decision to add a second characteristic was taken behind closed doors, and both the EP and the national parliaments were simply frozen out in the process.
The Council has subsequently more or less blackmailed the European Parliament to push through a few decisions as soon as possible, even though this issue is a very fundamental one.
I would therefore ask you to support our amendment tomorrow to keep the second characteristic optional.
Finally, looking through the proposals, I wonder whether these would really lead to an improvement in security or whether they represent a show of security, because, as you know, terrorists simply travel using their own passports. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we disagree with the introduction of biometric identifiers and feel that they infringe fundamental rights which we consider to be .
I should like to take this opportunity to denounce the action of the Council, which adopted these measures before procedures had been completed in Parliament, as well as the arbitrary change to the provision on mandatory biometric identifiers in the passports of European citizens, from a digital photograph only to a photograph and fingerprint.
The Council wrongly underestimated our role, the voice of the European citizens whom we represent … &#160;&#160; I am sorry Mr Triantaphyllides, we have run out of time.
I should like to thank the Commission and all speakers for that debate on what is a very important topic.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is three oral questions to the Commission on football in the EU: – Oral Question (B6-0133/2004) by Ivo Belet and Doris Pack, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on a framework for the balanced development of football in the EU; – Oral Question (B6-0134/2004) by Christa Prets, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the development of football in the EU; – Oral Question (B6-0135/2004) by Hannu Takkula, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on a framework for the balanced development of football in the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I realise that this problem pales somewhat before what has been discussed here in this House this afternoon, I do think that developments in the area of football also have major social implications.
Commissioner, the situation is serious.
This situation has a pernicious effect on our football’s social function.
After all, you will agree with me that football is an excellent instrument for social integration and against social exclusion.
I particularly regret that it is precisely this function of football that is currently being undermined in different European competitions, not only in the Belgian ones, but also elsewhere in Europe.
A number of concrete proposals have been tabled to turn the tide and call an end to this development.
One of the proposals provides for a regulation which prescribes that clubs must play a minimum number of players who have been trained by their own clubs or in the competitions in which their clubs are involved.
Moreover, from a moral point of view, it would be preferable to invest far more in the training side of clubs than in buying players and trading them as pure commodities.
Hence my specific question to the Commissioner whether he approves of this proposal.
It is therefore important to face up to the fact that increasing numbers of young people are being excluded from training or shut out of their normal places in their teams.
UEFA’s initiative to call for possible quotas for young players or native players is therefore entirely understandable.
I would like to stress the point that these quotas have nothing to do with the racism or xenophobia that we have seen frequently in recent times, but are merely about promoting young sportsmen and sportswomen.
It should not always be the mathematical or economic aspect which is focused on, as what this is much more about is a responsible way of dealing with young people.
I should therefore like to ask the Commission what its opinion is of possible quotas for native players or of investments in local training institutes and the training of players. &#160;&#160; Mr President, physical exercise, including that king of sports, football, is an increasingly important resource that promotes human wellbeing, health, the cultural dimension, social cohesion and the economy.
The moral and ethical basis for the sports culture in Europe is the rule of ‘fair play’.
The European Model of Sport, as it is known, has been structured around these values.
The ratification of the Constitutional Treaty in the Member States, which is due to take place soon, places an obligation on the Commission to set about preparations promptly to clarify the legal basis for sport.
In football one would hope this would mean that there will be special measures in the field of work with junior players in clubs.
In the case of the players, they who are employed by the football teams, the free movement of European players ... &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, there is a danger that the way in which sport is developing in the European Union will result in the weakening of its educational and social character.
The social function of sport, which is its more general interest, has been damaged for some years now by the appearance of new phenomena, which have caused the application of fair play, overall action and the development of the sporting ideal to be questioned.
Hooliganism is now being translated into racism at football grounds where black footballers are playing or in teams to which players from other races are transferred.
The spread of doping and financial exploitation in relation to television rights and marketing have turned sport, and football in particular, into a field of competition and conflicting interests.
The European Union of the 25 now faces a different prospect and the entry of the ten new Member States is creating the need for conditional harmonisation in the free movement of football players for the transitional period.
That is why it is essential that the European Union cooperate with the competent ministries of the 25 on the completion of the plan for a national character. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, we must all help so that the function of football, which is the popular sport , operates as a social inclusion factor.
Football is not simply a game which lasts 90 minutes, nor is it a purely business activity.
That is why it is not right for the player transfer system to be based purely and simply on a decision by the Court of Justice which completely ignores the social role of sport.
The free movement of workers also applies to footballers who, as working citizens of the European Union, have – and must have – this right.
Nonetheless, the Commission could adopt measures designed to strengthen the ties between footballers and football clubs and the local society, as we heard earlier.
The proposal formulated for a minimum number of players, for example, who must come from the area of their team, is important.
On the other hand, the concentration of high value players in financially robust teams is weakening the tie between these teams and the societies from which they come and is having an adverse effect on the possible development of the talent of players in the area.
The picture painted today by numerous big, mainly European teams which, at important football events appear with only one or two players from their country, or even none as we heard a short while ago from Belgium, should be a cause of concern to us.
Sport is and must remain the basic axis of social integration and I hope that the Commission will move in this direction.
I believe that transferring players under the age of 16 should be banned and that priority should be attached to training clubs.
My second point is about acknowledging what is happening in our stadia – in Italy, France, Spain, the Netherlands and elsewhere – and acknowledging the acts of xenophobia and racism that happen there.
If this requires us to make changes to legislation or to national rules with regard to the support given to football clubs, then so be it.
It really irritates me when I hear people complain that clubs like Real Madrid or Manchester United are using their financial power and muscle to the detriment of other clubs.
In fact, as we can see, clubs that have spent less money on players than Manchester United or Real Madrid are now ahead of them in their national leagues and doing better than them in the European Champions league.
Do not go with the lowest common denominator. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sport is an important economic and social factor, and is significant both in terms of its social role and of its value in the development of personality and peoples’ ability to integrate.
In its Helsinki report, the Commission stated its intention of encouraging legal certainty in football and of cooperating more closely with clubs.
The aim of this is to find alternatives to the development of a European transfer system, in which the training of young players is often treated as a secondary consideration.
As a member of the European Parliament’s ‘Friends of Football’working group, I have spoken with many players, trainers and club and UEFA employees about how to promote clubs’ autonomy and long-term training for players at local, national and international level.
In most of Europe’s football leagues it has become the norm to use players who are mediocre, and who were therefore bought cheaply, while blocking promising young ones, who are given far too little time for personal development.
Mr Figel’, do we need quotas for football teams so that the first team can include at least three self-trained players?
I believe that it is not only trainers, clubs and football players that are interested in a solution, but also the millions of fans throughout Europe who identify with creative talents and their carefree style of playing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as we have heard, sport is important for the physical and psychological health of our communities.
Football, which is the most popular sport, has a particularly important role in this.
One area of great importance where football clubs have to be active is in combating racism and xenophobia.
I regret the scenes we have seen recently in Spain, Italy and elsewhere, which show racism in football on the increase again.
It is important that the new Commission takes initiatives in this field and it is important that we make it clear to football clubs that they must not condone the activity of their own fans.
The points of key importance in football at the moment are television rights and how they are distributed among television clubs.
I would like to hear the Commissioner tell me whether he has any proposals on those rights so the money is more fairly shared between all clubs in football. &#160;&#160; Mr President, : sports and citizenship.
Sports are an instrument of social cohesion and social inclusion, and also an instrument of community identification.
For these reasons we have to promote sports practice and a sports social organisation.
For stateless nations, community identification through sports becomes very difficult.
In Catalonia we have several national teams that cannot compete in international competitions.
As a major aspect of entertainment, in which society takes considerable interest, it is appropriate that the EU institutions are aware of developments, even though the football authorities and the clubs take the major responsibility for organising the game.
My question to Commissioner Figel’ is: what should be the precise relationship between the Commission and Council of Ministers and the football authorities now that the game has such a major impact on society at large? &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Figel’, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the proposal that UEFA put forward in July 2004, which aims to encourage voluntary involvement.
I also welcome the fact that this question session is being held at the end of the ‘Year of Education through Sport’, as this means that particular emphasis is given to sport’s significance in terms of education, society, health policy and the community, even though we are also aware that it is also a significant economic factor, and more than that besides.
With regard to the ‘Year of Education through Sport’, I should like to ask the Commission when we can expect a report on the results and conclusions, in order to continue the debate on this year more intensively than merely with regard to one sport.
I am therefore rather more in favour of voluntary commitment.
I hope to be there tomorrow for the closing event of the European Year of Education through Sport 2004.
This will surely bring more value and political weight to debates about sport in the European Union and also to developments surrounding cooperation.
That is true, but the rule of law is a founding principle of the Union, and we have to abide by all the rules, including Community law, national law, both and .
This includes employment legislation, because in sport and in football there are different dimensions to activities.
The educational and social value of sport, and football in particular, is reflected in many positions of the Commission and in Parliament.
You will remember the Helsinki report and the Nice Declaration on Sport in 2000.
We then came up with the idea of making 2004 the Year of Education through Sport.
As I said, the closing ceremony will take place tomorrow.
I hope to come back soon with some evaluations and proposals.
I wonder whether you could answer the questions in writing?
The Commissioner is prepared to answer your questions in writing.
He could not have answered all the seven or eight questions put to him in the time available.
The Commission cannot give guarantees on the compatibility of specific practices with the Treaty.
That is why we want this safer Internet programme which has played a key role in the Commission's action to protect minors in the field of audiovisual and information services.
Then there is the network for raising awareness of safer use of the Internet, with 21 countries participating in network awareness nodes.
The new programme is of course going to be in continuity, but also enhancing what we have done so far.
Such is the ambitious objective of the Safer Internet PlusProgramme.
The Commission’s proposal makes it clear that a decision has been made in favour of self-regulation, with much of the responsibility being laid on parents, educators and other end users.
The programme draws a clear distinction between illegal content and unwanted content.
The programme’s four action lines have to do primarily with the fight against illegal content, in particular child pornography.
There are all kinds of content filters available for parents who wish to make use of them, but there is often a great lack of information about how well this technology performs, and this is where the European Union can make a useful contribution.
In the framework of theSafer Internet Plus Programme, research can be carried out into the performance level of the technology, and it is possible to examine on the basis of precisely which criteria these filters operate.
For example, there are filters that work on the basis of key words and that inadvertently make information about such subjects as sexual education or breast cancer inaccessible.
We should, moreover, not overlook the fact that children can often very easily deactivate those irritating filters without their parents knowing, so that they can continue to surf to their hearts’ content.
It follows that many parents have no idea what their children are doing or experiencing on the Internet.
Just as parents try to equip their children to defend themselves in the off-line world and tell them that they should not go off with strangers, parents would also be able to guide their children more effectively on the Internet.
A lack of technical protection of the computer can also result in Internet users spreading illegal or unwanted content without them knowing, with all the consequences that this entails.
The fourth action line concerns the setting up of the Safer Internet Forum.
Over the past few weeks, together with the shadow rapporteurs, I have worked with both the Council and the Commission in a very constructive dialogue, and the present report is the outcome of our efforts.
I should thus like to extend warm thanks the shadow rapporteurs and to our partners in the Commission and the Council.
I hope for similar support in the plenary, so that the Safer Internet Plus Programme can take off with the necessary dynamism on 1 January 2005. &#160;&#160; .
Let us by all means take the Internet forward, let us find new technology, but let us make sure that the people who wish to use that technology for evil purposes are curtailed in their actions for the good of all of us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, welcome, Commissioner Reding.
Before I was elected to the European Parliament, I took an active interest, as a female Social Democrat, in the debate about violence, violent pornography on the Internet and the exploitation of children and young people.
I am still involved in the debate, but now as both a Member of the European Parliament and as Chairman of the Depiction of Violence Council/Media Council in Sweden, which is responsible for these issues.
In Sweden, we have been able, by taking part in this EU project on the future of the Internet, to demonstrate the differences between parents’ knowledge of children’s Internet activities and what the children say their parents know.
I think we must try to continue with such cooperation and exchange of experience in the EU.
Cooperation, together with internal reform of the Internet are therefore what are required and, through Mrs&#160;Mastenbroek’s report, Parliament is well placed to bring about a safer Internet. &#160;&#160; I would like to preface my remarks with a quote from a statement from the Vatican concerning the role of the Internet.
The Internet can unite people, but it can also divide them on the basis of ideology, politics, possessions, or religion, if used as an instrument of aggression.
The safer Internet programme now before us has this as its objective,and I therefore support it.
Over the past few years, this initiative has already proven its worth.
In connection with this aspect of the programme, the provision of information, I would like to add a thought concerning the report.
In the new Member States of the EU, including my own home country, Hungary, the rate of Internet penetration is typically lower than elsewhere.
One can certainly say that in this regard there is a need for a true breakthrough, and there is a need for the hotlines operating in the Member States to work together a good deal more effectively.
There is therefore still considerable work to be done, but the draft before us can contribute to creating a safer and more humane online environment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are few reports which respond to a real feeling amongst European citizens for a solution, particularly among parents, than this report.
Mrs Mastenbroek has completed an excellent report and people who are real experts in this field such as Mrs Segelström and Mr Kirkhope have added their words of support.
One is to congratulate the Commissioner on her words about the proliferation of racist and other violent material, which is on the increase and which is of concern to all of us here in the European Union.
Mrs Mastenbroek, for example, mentioned the possibility of a children-specific hotline being adapted from the hotline approach that we see in the report.
Finally, for the older people amongst us, 3G technology will open out this kind of technology even more.
The next generation will deal with it.
This report goes a long way towards doing that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this programme cannot come too soon.
ICT-based and other information technologies, and network security are vital to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
I would hope that by the time this programme is in its final stages the Commission will venture to adopt a strict policy and draft rules for restraint in this sector, which will prevent harmful, illegal and unwanted content.
She deserves to succeed because this project – our joint project and not that of some people who oppose some other people, a project that must involve the whole of society – is intended to provide real support to the benefits that new technologies can bring us, without the negative influences about which the Members of this House have spoken so eloquently.
We should, instead, be basing new policy on the third pillar, which offers the possibility of policies that are tougher but more difficult to put in place.
We therefore have a responsibility towards our society and the weaker elements thereof to be proactive.
In this regard, I thank Parliament and its Members for helping the Commission and the Council to accomplish their task. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank the Commissioner and all colleagues for their cooperation in respecting the time limits.
I should also like to take this opportunity to wish Ms Mastenbroek all the best for her forthcoming marriage.
The debate is closed.
In that context I must point out that in Italy I have brought a ground-breaking suit against a site that puts out false information about Members of the European Parliament and about Europe.
I wonder, for that matter, about the significance of holding such a debate, given that three reports of the same nature have already been adopted and it appears that the political group that requested this debate is not even represented this evening.
In the absence of any coordination of national systems of taxation of savings income, some residents of the Member States were able to avoid any form of taxation in their State of residence on interest which they received in another State.
In this context, the Council authorised the Commission, by its decision of 16 October 2001, to negotiate appropriate agreements with Switzerland, the United States of America, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino under which those countries would adopt measures equivalent to those to be applied within the Community, so as to ensure effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments.
Three Member States (Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg) attached conditions to this abolition of banking secrecy.
In the meantime, agreements have been negotiated with Switzerland, Andorra, Liechtenstein, San Marino and Monaco.
The agreements between the European Community and Switzerland, Andorra and&#160;Liechtenstein were very recently submitted to Parliament and were adopted.
The content of these two agreements is similar to the content of the agreements that have previously been examined.
The agreements will have the effect of ensuring the adoption by the countries concerned of measures equivalent to those which must be implemented within the European Union to tax effectively savings income in the form of interest payments made in one State and intended for recipients residing in another State.
With these two agreements, the necessary phase of concluding agreements prior to the implementation of the directive for the countries that I mentioned above comes to an end.
It is important that this date should be respected in order for the whole package to be implemented properly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Gauzès, for his excellent work.
I myself agree that the EU should aim for income policy agreements and cooperation with its neighbouring states.
This way we can be sure we are operating according to the same rules as our neighbours.
The legal barriers regarding financial services in the EU’s internal market have already been removed in the main, or they are being removed right now.
By this I also mean implementing decisions in Member States and monitoring that implementation, something that is often less than satisfactory.
The study said that tax barriers are one of the major obstructions to a real single market in investment funds.
These, of course, are not directly linked to earned interest, but they certainly are linked to impediments in investment and capital markets.
Finally, I would like to make a request to Commissioner Kovács.
I would hope, however, that you will take into consideration in your future work the view put forward on numerous occasions by the European Parliament that we do not want any initiatives from the Commission regarding matters to do with transfers of assets. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the UK Independence Party objects to this directive in the strongest possible terms.
Taxation policy should be the reserve of independent, sovereign states; any desirable end contained in this directive should be achieved by international agreements freely entered into by sovereign states.
Tonight we are discussing Monaco and San Marino, but this directive will also affect some British overseas territories, namely the Cayman Islands, some other Caribbean islands and Gibraltar, territories that depend heavily on banking and financial services for their economic existence.
Looking on the bright side – who knows? – perhaps this directive may help in time to turn up some of the countless millions that have been embezzled from the European Union.
That was the aim of the directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, more commonly referred to as the savings tax directive, which received the strong support of the European Parliament.
In order to ensure the effectiveness of these measures and to preserve the competitiveness of the European financial markets, the Council gave the Commission a mandate in October 2001 to negotiate agreements with key third countries for the application by those jurisdictions of equivalent measures in their own savings tax directives.
The two agreements in front of us today follow those with Switzerland, Andorra and Liechtenstein, which have already been presented to and supported by Parliament.
They constitute an essential component of a new framework for cooperation in the field of direct taxation based on our own savings tax directive, but also comprising similar agreements signed at national level with dependent and associated territories of Member States.
All these legal instruments will have simultaneous application from 1 July 2005.
Let me thank Parliament for this vital support for these two valuable reports in favour of the proposals for the conclusion of these agreements.
I should also like to thank the services, particularly the interpreters, for working late this evening.
The debate is closed.
