Situation in Tibet (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Tibet.
For many years now the European Parliament has resolutely championed the cause of human rights in Tibet.
The events in Lhasa, the capital of Tibet, and in other Chinese cities since 10 March this year are deeply disturbing.
We cannot allow a situation in which the Dalai Lama's name is linked with terrorism. (Applause) We cannot allow the demonisation of the Dalai Lama.
The Dalai Lama has accepted our invitation to address the European Parliament as part of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, and this has been scheduled for the month of December.
However, I hope you will agree that in light of recent events in Tibet, the Dalai Lama is welcome here in the European Parliament at any time. (Applause) Dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and China are in our mutual interests.
However, there are certain preconditions for this: respect for the cultural and religious identity of the Tibetan people, and free and fair reporting before and during the games.
However, our values and our self-respect will not allow us to surrender our principles.
We in the European Parliament have a special responsibility in this regard. (The House rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation) President-in-Office. - (SL) Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is following with anguish the development of the situation in Tibet and the neighbouring provinces in China which have a sizeable Tibetan population, such as Tsinghai, Szechwan and Kansu.
European Union representatives have been in frequent contact with Chinese representatives ever since the start of the disturbances in Tibet.
In response to the request by the European Union, their Chinese counterparts gave the EU troika the first report on the events in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, on 15 March.
The situation in Tibet was also discussed at the meeting of European Union representatives with the Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister on 17 March.
Following the incident at the Chinese Embassy in Brussels, European Union representatives were invited for talks with the same official on 19 March.
At the beginning of last week, on 17 March, the Presidency expressed its deep concern in the light of numerous reports about the disturbances in Tibet.
At the same time the Presidency called on the protesters to renounce violence.
As we know, the European Union supports the territorial integrity of China, but it strives for peaceful reconciliation between the Chinese authorities and the Tibetan religious leader, the Dalai Lama, and his representatives.
That is why our statement calls on the Chinese government to respond to the concerns of the Tibetans in respect of the human rights.
The European Union expressed concern that further detention of protesters who had peacefully expressed their will might cause renewed tension between the Tibetans and the Han, that is to say the Chinese community in Tibet.
Mr President, you also mentioned the question of the Olympic Games in China.
Dialogue between the European Union and China has been continuing this week.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very happy that this debate is taking place today because the Foreign Ministers are still to discuss exactly how to deal with the situation.
Like you, Mr President, we, the Commission, are also deeply concerned about the unrest and the violence in Tibet.
The Commission urges the Chinese Government to allow independent media access.
The European Union firmly supports peaceful reconciliation between the Chinese authorities and the Dalai Lama and his representatives.
Within the context of the forthcoming human rights dialogue, it has also been proposed that the next field visit in China should go to Tibet.
For now, I think the most pressing question is how we as the European Union can work together to deliver a strong and coherent message to the Chinese authorities and to the Tibetan demonstrators: a message which will help bring the violence to an end and the two sides together in a really substantive dialogue.
I welcome the responsible statement made by the President of this Parliament, Hans-Gert Pöttering, that we should deploy every possible means at our disposal to urge the reluctant Chinese authorities to halt the violence and respect human and minority rights.
Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned earlier, the Olympic Games are a symbol of peace and reconciliation, and this is what they must continue to represent.
Another important point is the realism shown by the Dalai Lama and by Karma Chophel, which suggests to us that we should not be raising the apocalyptic problem of non-participation in the Olympics, but taking action in the form of not endorsing the opening ceremony.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we were all hopeful that, in view of the Olympic Games, China would demonstrate that its development was not merely that of a major economic and trading power but also that of a nation capable of embarking on a new era based on the observance of human rights which have all too often been violated, and hence a nation prepared to recognise those individual liberties still being denied today.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, for 10 years Europe's leaders have taken part in the Olympic Games of Indifference: running the fastest after contracts, jumping as high as possible over human rights and flying as fast as possible over the oppression in Tibet.
Firstly, the European Union and all its leaders must in this situation refuse to attend the opening of the Olympic Games.
If the people speak, if we allow uncensored access to the Internet, I can tell you that it will be a great moment for the Olympic Games, for sport and for democracy, because sport and democracy must go hand in hand; otherwise, there is no point jumping, running or swimming. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the safeguarding of human rights in China does not begin and end with the Olympics.
We did not await the Olympics to express our firm condemnation of the Chinese Government for failing to respect human rights and democratic guarantees.
The same motive recently prompted President Bush to remove China from the list of countries committing the most severe human rights violations.
Chinese capitalism was convinced that years of rapid economic growth would dampen separatist demands, but this has not been the case, primarily because the Chinese have never bothered to ask the Tibetans what model of economic growth they would like.
We are witnessing on a daily basis the closure of numerous popular newspapers and international websites, increasing discrimination against migrant workers from rural areas, thousands of whom are, for example, excluded from health insurance, and thousands of members of Protestant, Catholic and unofficial churches being imprisoned and tortured, not to mention the repression of the Uyghur community, the forced labour camps and the death penalty, which is still widely applied to punish about 68 non-violent economic crimes.
We are convinced that the months between now and the Olympics represent a unique opportunity for the international community, and in particular the European Union, to oblige the Beijing Government - not only diplomatically, but also through specific trade-related initiatives - to release all those who have been arrested, guarantee the independent media access to Tibet, and open negotiations with both the Tibetan Parliament-in-exile and the political movements leading the protests on the ground, in order to reach a peaceful, diplomatic, agreed solution that is respectful of the rights and choices of the Tibetan people.
Firstly, although we must welcome the fact that President Sarkozy is becoming increasingly vocal and is not excluding boycotting the Olympic Games, the attitude of his Foreign Affairs Minister is more than questionable.
I therefore say: long live the Europe of free nations, long live the free Tibet and long live a world of free nations! (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 113 years ago the famous French Socialist Jean Jaurès wrote that capitalism contains within it the seeds of war, as clouds foresee a tempest.
Since Mao, China has thus been a slave for 60 years to one of the most terrible dictatorships in the history of mankind, and yet Mao was worshipped and acclaimed enthusiastically by much of the European intelligentsia, including the then sorcerer's apprentices who are now the current French Minister Bernard Kouchner, the philosopher André Glucksmann and many other Maoists, which should have been enough to discredit the revolutionary undertakings of 1968.
You objected earlier when Kosovo was mentioned, but questions as diverse as Kosovo and Tibet have something in common: they are the consequences of the immigration policy on the indigenous people.
These consequences are terrible, but what is even worse is that, not content with pretending this reality did not exist, we allowed this process to begin in many parts of our own territory.
Mr President, since 10 March, unprecedented demonstrations have taken place in Tibet and at least three Chinese provinces, and in Beijing.
The Chinese Government claims that 18 civilians and one policeman were killed and a total of 623 people injured during the protests in Lhasa on 12 March.
Tibetan exile groups have reported that at least 800 people died during the protests.
The Economist correspondent who was in Lhasa as the riots broke out reported on the scale of destruction and violence.
Secondly, we urge the Chinese Government to enter into constructive dialogue with the Dalai Lama.
The Tibetan community and the Dalai Lama himself also need to think about the security and feasible future of the Han Chinese in Tibet.
My last point is that there is now a great responsibility on all international actors in the current situation - particularly the sponsors of the Olympic torch, such as Coca Cola, Samsung and Lenovo - not to associate themselves with the highly repressive situation in the region. (NL) You have quite rightly pointed out, Mr President, Commissioner, that human rights have never been a purely domestic issue.
These Games must lead to the downfall of Chinese policy, otherwise they will lead to the downfall of the entire free world. (DE) Mr President, the brutal action taken by the Chinese military against Tibetan demonstrators has resulted in more than 1 000 people being injured and, it is thought, some 100 deaths among the Tibetans.
As President of the European Parliament's Tibet Intergroup, I fully endorse this position.
I would like to express my gratitude for the solidarity that we are seeing very clearly today.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, I would like to see the European Commission convene a special session within the framework of the EU-China dialogue.
The violence in Tibet today is not only about human rights but also about power-sharing.
Certainly we must ask the Chinese authorities to deal with these events in compliance with respect for human rights in a civilised, transparent and proportionate way.
At the same time, we must also recognise the right of China and the right of any state to take appropriate measures to protect the lives, freedoms and fortunes of its citizens as well as the public good.
It is our right and duty to encourage that process and to insist on respect for human rights, including cultural rights and the protection of cultural identity everywhere in China, not only in Tibet.
I am pleased, Mr President, that your words today have broken the European Union's silence and that enables me to address you, Mr President.
Tibet has never been part of China on a permanent basis.
Mr President, the Olympic flame may have been lit last weekend, but the Olympic spirit died in the streets of Tibet.
China sponsors genocide in Darfur, genocide against religious groups in China, and now genocide in Tibet.
That is why I called then for a debate in the EU about a boycott of the Olympics.
The Council will be clear in its stance on the respect of human rights, the rejection of violence wherever it comes from, and support for the freedom of expression, including the right to peaceful demonstration.
As I said in my introduction, we will work in favour of dialogue between the Chinese authorities and the Dalai Lama or his representatives.
Perhaps other Ministers will address that issue in due course.
I would like to reiterate that the Olympic Games in China should be viewed as an opportunity to promote human rights.
It is therefore shameful that in the country that is to host the Olympics in a few months' time, people are being shot at and those who wish to express publicly their aspirations as citizens are being killed.
At the same time, I should like to draw attention to the fact that in a country that is our immediate neighbour, namely Belarus, force is also being used to break up peaceful demonstrations and participants in the latter are being arrested.
I believe that we should make it abundantly clear that we condemn events in Minsk just as strongly as we condemn events in Tibet. (NL) The recent violence in Tibet has again drawn our attention to the position of the Tibetan people.
This summer the Olympic Games will be held in China.
Governments ought not to interfere at this time in their athletes' participation in the Games.
I support the President of the European Parliament's idea of possibly boycotting the opening ceremony.
The European Parliament must take the initiative in this respect.
Mr President, I cannot say I was planning a trip to China this summer, but now I certainly will not be going.
I must also therefore express my solidarity with Tibet, with the Tibetan people and with the Dalai Lama, whose words once again point to the right way forward.
In addition, I must express my solidarity with the Chinese people who are fighting for freedom everyday, with the sons and daughters of Tiananmen.
However, having said this, I am not in favour of a boycott of the Olympic Games.
I favour political measures, for example the absence of political leaders from the opening ceremony.
The struggle for freedom and democracy in Tibet, in China, in Burma and elsewhere continues.
Mr President, the way the Chinese authorities are addressing the crisis in Tibet is proof that Beijing is unwilling to change its ruthless policies towards minorities.
I am proud of you, Mr President, for courageously taking a clear moral stand on the Tibetan issue and today declaring our unconditional solidarity with the Tibetan people.
We call for human rights and freedoms in Tibet as much as in China, where so many are jailed just for daring to express their views - like Hu Jia, just after he spoke to us here in Parliament last November.
Instead, it is a task for us all, as citizens of this world, to make these Games in Beijing become a true Olympiad for human rights, for freedom in Tibet, and for freedom in China. (PL) On the same day as the first partially free elections were taking place in Poland, namely 4 June 1989, tanks were running down student demonstrators in Tiananmen Square.
Mr President, the recent events in Tibet have been atrocious, despicable and we all condemn them, as we should condemn many other acts of inhumanity by the totalitarian regime in China.
Let us not destroy it, but let us try to destroy the dictatorship in Beijing and let all of us stop buying Chinese if we want to do something practical. (CS) I have been pointing out for several years now that we must not close our eyes to a gross breach of human rights in China, regardless of our economic goals.
Not only for me personally but for many Europeans this will be a test showing whether the European Union treats human rights as a transnational issue and a matter that touches us all, or whether it is going to take selective approach in the case of China.
I am very much in favour of the idea of sending our own observers to Tibet.
The Olympic idea is based on the purity of a sporting spirit and this spirit most certainly does not go together with the silence of other countries during the Olympics about the fact that the organising country brutally suppresses the rights of the Tibetan people. (FI) Mr President, the 2008 Olympics are a unique opportunity for Europe to initiate a debate on the events in Tibet and the universal humanitarian values agreed by the United Nations.
We should not exclude the option of a boycott if it helps to achieve results. (DE) Mr President, may I say that the Olympic Games are always a major sporting event, but always a political event as well, both for the IOC, and in this case also for China, because of the pledges that were made by the Chinese in connection with the Games, namely that they would respect human rights and ensure better protection of the environment.
However, we need to go further than that.
The yardstick by which we, as Europeans, must be gauging our own performance is our human rights dimension, including in our dealings with China. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must help the Dalai Lama not only to say 'no', where he has clearly done so, but also to say 'yes' where he has done so.
He has said 'no' to a boycott of the Olympics, but 'yes' to whatever can be done to use this as an opportunity for the international community to make its political voice heard in favour of human rights.
Chairman Karma Chophel, who is about to speak to us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has also spoken of the need for everyone to take this opportunity to show support for the Tibetan people and for all oppressed peoples in China: the Uyghurs, the Mongols and others.
Mr President, I had the good fortune to be present as a spectator at the Munich Olympic Games the day before the tragic assassinations of athletes took place.
As far as the Chinese authorities are concerned, I wholly agree with your words. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe one measure that can be adopted is for the European Union to ask the UN to ensure immunity from arrest for athletes of Tibetan nationality wishing to participate in the Olympic Games under their own flag and on behalf of their nation.
The Tibetan people have a right to freedom and independence. (HU) Mr President, your excellent statement and the present debate show that the European Parliament does not want to remain silent, that it does not want to collude with a dictatorship's oppression of a minority.
Mr President, I am proud of you as the President of this Parliament. (SK) Thank you, Mr President.
That is why it is so regrettable that the Chinese Government has not grasped the main mission of the Olympic Games.
Mr President, in my view the European Union should have three objectives regarding Tibet and China.
Torture is at present a much bigger problem than murders because for 50 years it has furthered the oppression in Tibet.
As I said, the Council has to have a debate on this issue.
Secondly, engage in a substantive and constructive dialogue which addresses core issues such as what can be done to preserve the Tibetan language, culture, religion and traditions; what steps need to be undertaken so that Tibetans may enjoy equal opportunities in education, in working life, the economy and society; what must be done or not done so that Tibetans can still feel at home in their own region.
I think all sides should aim to strengthen the moderate elements, and I therefore strongly recommend addressing these questions together, in order to find a sustainable solution acceptable to all.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think this has been one of the European Parliament's finest hours, for we have championed the most important cause of all, namely human rights.
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all of you for your contribution to what has been one of the European Parliament's finest hours.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) The Tibetan crisis fills all of us with alarm and we sympathise with the victims.
The Chinese government must protect human rights and not resort to violence.
The boycott of the 1980 Moscow Olympics and the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics were a bitter chapter in the Cold War.
I can say without a doubt that the vast majority of the sports-loving Hungarian public was opposed to the 1984 boycott and would oppose any suggestion of a boycott in the present case.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, I share everyone's concern about the human rights violations in Tibet.
The European Union should immediately amend the cooperation plan to take account of the current situation and step up the human rights dialogue with China, which should make it possible to achieve results.
The sieges in the monasteries must be brought to an end and the Tibetan people must be assured of the supply of food, water and medical treatment.
The Dalai Lama has spoken in the media of Tibet's cultural genocide.
in writing. - (IT) The world has tolerated China's bullying of the Tibetan people and culture for decades, for reasons of geopolitical opportunism.
in writing. - (HU) Mr President, the disturbances in Tibet have left several hundred people dead.
We must speak up for the rights of the Tibetan people, but let Europe also set its own house in order.
