The European Union's anti-terrorist strategy must be global, multilateral and based on the United Nations system.
Prevention, which is so important and which failed both on 11 September in New York and on 11 March in Madrid, is crucial, as is greater efficiency in police and judicial action.
Jesús Ramírez Castanedo, Jesús Abril Escusa, Isabel Casanova Ortega and Euclides Antonio Río Grajales.
In its foreign policy measures directed against terrorism, the EU has continued to endeavour to consider every possible issue connected with radicalisation and recruitment, and has shared with its external partners its experience and best practices in dealing with the problem.
The European Union has also broken new ground in including anti-radicalisation measures in a special technical aid programme for combating terrorism.
The European Union has also helped to build up capacity at regional level, for example, at the Jakarta Centre for Law Enforcement Cooperation (JCLEC) in Indonesia and the African Union's anti-terrorism centre in Algiers.
Politicians and experts from the European Union and the USA have worked together on intensifying their dialogue, and the EU has extended its dialogue on anti-terrorism issues to include other partner countries such as Israel, Australia, Canada and Russia, as well as those that participate with it in the Europe-Mediterranean Partnership, in considering areas of common interest and options for cooperation, notably the provision of technical assistance to other countries.
Thirdly, in the international legal framework, the European Union has continued to press for a key role to be given to the United Nations in the combating of terrorism.
I believe that your House would, by bringing this issue to the attention of your partners in dialogue in third countries, be making a supremely valuable contribution to achieving that goal.
The Union also has a definition of terrorist acts in its framework decision on terrorism.
The Commission welcomes the interest of the Parliament on the external aspects of the fight against terrorism.
Terrorism also features regularly during meetings with our partners and in international organisations.
Secondly, the Commission is an important provider of capacity-building assistance to some 80 third countries aimed at improving governance and administrative capacities in related areas.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (FR) Madam President, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Mr Gloser, ladies and gentlemen, I have been given the task, on behalf of the Committee on Development, of drafting an opinion on this report on the external dimension of the fight against terrorism, which was drafted by my colleague, Mr Yañez-Barnuevo García, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
This opinion was adopted by nearly all of the members of the Committee on Development, on 6 November.
The last time prevention failed was on 30 December 2006 in Madrid.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, terrorist acts are always criminal, but terrorism is also always a political project.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, I have to say, Mr Yañez-Barnuevo García, that your speech was markedly better than your report, a certain amount of material in which was, I am aware, whispered in your ear, and it is regrettable that the Committee on Development's opinion was not also adopted.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the rapporteur is absolutely right to mention the medium of the high-speed and global Internet as being part of the phenomenon of international terrorism, but he does so in a paradoxical fashion.
While paragraph 12 appeals to the European Union to fight the misuse of the Internet for terrorist purposes, in paragraph 17, the rapporteur highlights the scope the Internet offers to trace, and thus resist, this self-same evil.
We must continue to fight poverty, and, of course, give our support, but we should not be naïve in thinking that this will also fully address terrorism.
I think paragraph 9 is especially relevant.
I should also like, in conclusion, to urge, through the Council, those EU Member States that have not yet done so, to sign or ratify at the earliest opportunity the 16 United Nations universal instruments on combating terrorism.
Europe should consistently use its foreign policies to encourage all third countries to sign, ratify and implement the 12 international conventions and protocols relating to terrorism.
I think it is important that Members of your House - not alone, but with others - should continue a dialogue on this subject with your counterparts in other regions that may perhaps also be suffering from terrorism.
I should also like to say a word on the issue of the Internet, which is one of the important areas under discussion in the G8, in the Rome/Lyons Group.
The debate is closed.
Ultimately, however, in a direct or indirect way all countries, and even institutions, are drawn into the cauldron.
The participating countries made no less than 21 obligations to fight terrorism.
