Part One Subject: Food crises in the EU and protection of European consumers Following the repeated food crises in Europe, has the Commission decided on specific measures to provide effective consumer protection?
The Commission has many ways of ensuring that consumers and European citizens are protected against a possible food crisis.
Thirdly, the Commission carefully examines all information received from the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the international media or other sources.
For example, in the case of the Ukrainian sunflower oil contaminated with mineral oil, the RASFF received notification from the competent French authorities on 23 April 2008, which was received by all the Member States.
The Commission, through the RASFF, at once notified the other Member States of this incident, and on 10 June 2008 it issued Decision 2008/433/EC imposing special conditions governing the import of sunflower oil originating in or consigned from Ukraine due to contamination risks by mineral oil.
At the same time, however, we are taking care to ensure a steady improvement in the channels of communication and cooperation with the Member States for this purpose.
In the case of Greece and the Ukrainian sunflower oil, a general warning was indeed issued 23 April 2008 that this contaminated sunflower oil was on the EU market.
On 5 May 2008, when the Swiss authorities issued a specific warning to our centre here that this sunflower oil was on its way to Greece, Italy and Turkey, among other places, the Greek authorities made the necessary investigations and began to give us the information and withdraw the products.
Naturally, this happens both in Greece and in other countries.
Commissioner, the EU has done a great job in its farm-to-fork system, and consumers should have confidence in it but, as an ancillary point, what about protecting EU producers?
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, because Mr Tajani has been held up by a Council of Ministers meeting, I am happy to respond to Mrs Raeva, particularly because the subject to which her question relates is a matter I have had very much to do with personally and which I hold very close to my heart.
In 2003 it was the subject of a European Road Safety Action Programme, which defined 60 measures aimed at encouraging road users to behave more sensibly, using technical advances to make vehicles safer, improving road infrastructure, making commercial transport safer, improving the treatment of victims and developing the analysis of accident data.
In the area of Community legislation, I should mention the new directive on the driving licence, adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 20 December 2006.
This directive was to improve road safety for young road users and the free movement of citizens within the European Union.
Then we have the proposal for a directive on controlling traffic offences, submitted by the Commission in 2008 and currently under negotiation in the European Parliament and the Council.
This action programme will be the subject of a public consultation at the start of 2009 and will then go through the process of adoption by the Commission.
It is precisely in this direction that I would like to ask: " At the existence of indicators, at the definite existence of a very serious initiative on the part of the European Commission concerning road safety in Europe, how is control of the execution of these indicators provided and in what way is it truly guaranteed that we in Europe will have a reduction of fatal cases by at least 50%?" Because for a country like Bulgaria this indicator is too high.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, honourable Member, the supervision, controls and penalties for offences obviously lie within the competence of the Member States.
For example, the Directive on Unfair Commercial Practices (UCP) aims at protecting consumers, including young people, from practices that harm their economic interests, such as misleading advertising or aggressive practices.
For example, the inclusion in an advertisement of a direct exhortation to children to buy products is banned across the European Union.
What we can do is make the information 100% available in a very understandable way.
If, for example, a product claims that it could cure you or could all of a sudden make you 10 years younger (which of course is not possible), then it is in my scope and I could deal with it through the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission does not have the power to set prices or define the quality of educational products.
Member of the Commission. - Concerning cross-border problems with teaching materials, we have European Consumer Centres whose work is based on consumer cooperation regulation and which are good ambassadors for consumer rights all over Europe.
However, the basic principle is the same, and this regulation is functioning really well. (DE) I would be interested to know how things actually look with regard to online learning.
The Commission cannot repeat the efforts of an Ombudsman or of a Member State, but if there is a persistent problem in one or other area of consumer policy, we need to tackle it, including with legislation.
We compare the Member States to see how many complaints they are tackling and in what kind of areas.
Member of the Commission. - This is about the internet, which is a very important issue.
Already, 150 million EU citizens - a third of our population - shop over the internet.
As a follow-up to the guide, one could consider drawing up guidelines on how to implement the unfair commercial practices legislation with regard to unfair commercial practices emerging online.
Educating young consumers who are particularly active online is crucial.
The main tools the European Commission uses to inform citizens and stakeholders about consumer policy in this framework are a website, the Consumer Voice newsletter and information campaigns.
Given that there is a legal void, do you think that European consumer centres have the means to engage in these procedures, collectively perhaps, but also individually, instead of the injured consumers? (DE) It is simply a matter of our being concerned with future possibilities for publicising complaints transparently.
Member of the Commission. - The suggestion of European Consumer Centres going to court on behalf of European consumers is an idea we will discuss in our communication on collective redress before the end of the year.
I will continue with enforcement actions in all 27 countries at the same time - the so-called 'sweeps' on issues such as airline tickets or ring tones.
If you have good, targeted legislation which is fully harmonised in all Member States, this will have a tremendous impact in raising both consumer confidence and the level of consumer performance in all Member States.
The internal market scoreboard is an effective way of displaying the relative performances of Member States in implementing this legislation.
Paper versions were sent to the permanent representations of the Member States and to the Commission representation offices in the capitals of the 27 Member States.
Following the publication of each scoreboard, a press release is issued in 21 languages and the results are communicated during a press conference to ensure that they are easily accessible to the national media.
author. - Thank you, Commissioner, for dealing with this question.
I welcome the work that has been done in this area, which relates to the whole issue of the perception of the European Union in Member States.
In Wicklow, in my own area of Cromane, there was a case about eight years ago where funding was made available, under a directive, from Europe to the Irish Government, but no action was taken, and as a result 50 families are now not able to carry out their normal work of mussel harvesting.
But we try to avoid all of that by doing the following: if a Member State has difficulties in transposing a directive, we organise meetings with them, we have seminars and we try to deal with specific questions and difficulties they might have.
When a Member State fails to act in a particular area, we do take the appropriate action but we try to avoid these things if possible by encouraging Member States to get their house in order as quickly as they can.
the normal charges for card users, regulated at European level as far as payment in euros are concerned: according to Regulation (EC) No 2560/2001 on cross-border payments in euro, when a cross-border payment in euro is made between two Member States, the charges levied for such payment should be the same as the charges for a corresponding payment in euro within the Member State in which the card was issued.
We had a very good example where your colleague, Commissioner Vivien Reding, Commissioner for Information and Media, took a very tough stand with the mobile phone companies - and we can see the result to the benefit of the consumer.
So the national authorities of the relevant Member States can address this issue if they want, but at that particular stage there was no majority of Member States in favour of action at EU level.
Member of the Commission. - I should firstly like to underline that the protection of the interests of minority shareholders in listed companies is one of the key objectives of the Community rules on takeover bids.
Minority shareholders in state-owned companies which are listed are entitled to exactly the same rights as minority shareholders in companies owned by private parties.
This exemption is general in nature but, as usual, the devil is in the detail.
The process, which is apparently still ongoing, started 12 years ago.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission adopted a report on the first year of implementation of the Black Sea Synergy on 19 June 2008.
These are proposals to establish Black Sea partnerships in several fields, including transport and the environment, and Member States present in the region are particularly active in promoting those initiatives.
Further progress of the Synergy requires the active involvement of a growing number of Member States and Black Sea partners, and the Black Sea Member States can and do play a crucial role in this.
Member of the Commission. - I would agree that EU election observation missions (EOMs) everywhere in the world represent money well spent.
I know Mr Evans himself has just come back very recently from the Sri Lanka elections.
Election observation is not an objective in itself but should also contribute to addressing deficiencies in the electoral framework, and also to triggering institutional and democratic reform in the longer run.
They are increasingly embedded in a broader electoral support strategy, thereby enhancing the long-term impact.
With reference to other recent EOMs, I can confirm that, for instance in Rwanda, in Cambodia or in Yemen, we have been giving support to the respective electoral commissions.
But, in the same context, over the past years the Commission has also substantially increased the financial contributions for electoral assistance, thus building on the recommendations of the EU EOMs.
I believe that, in addition to the chief observer, Parliament can play and very often does play a relevant role addressing electoral reform in the follow-up to the EOM.
I would therefore encourage the regular EP delegations to a country to get more involved in the matter as well, by then addressing deficiencies in the electoral framework in a context of broader institutional and democratic change.
I thought that the missions - as do all of the election observation missions - proved a very useful aid to the Cambodian authorities in the conducting of their election missions.
I try to make a selection according to the budget, which has to cover Africa, Asia, Latin America and, as long as we are invited, the countries of the Maghreb and Arab countries, where I think we should go more often, because owing to our - in principle - objectivity, we have a very good standing.
