The objective was to lay the bases for a strategy aimed at promoting and safeguarding the rights of minors in the European Union's internal and external policies and to support Member States' efforts in that sector.
That is why the report is based on two main presumptions: (1) active participation of children in decision-making that affects them; (2) mainstreaming, that is to say incorporating and promoting the rights of the child in all European Union policies.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give warm thanks to Mrs Angelilli for this report.
From the start of my term of office, the rights of the child have clearly been a top priority, a central item of my agenda, and the cooperation with Parliament in this field too has now led to the policy lines that will be the outcome of this report - which I hope will be adopted by a very large majority - guidelines for action that the Commission will follow, for there is not a single point in that report that I do not endorse.
Other measures now under way include the creation of a standard helpline telephone number, 116 000, which will be the same throughout Europe.
In that report, as you may remember, I highlighted the fact that too many Member States have still not transposed that 2004 framework decision, dating back four years now, on the sexual exploitation of children.
That is an aspect we will address specifically in the framework of European immigration policy: children are often victims, they are often the most vulnerable in the general context of migration flows.
We must place more emphasis on the need to implement the European action plan to combat people-trafficking, with particular reference to children, in addition to women, for as the two weakest categories they are often the victims of international people-trafficking.
The new Daphne programme and the new fundamental rights programme may, for example, enable us also to provide financial aid for the European Network of Ombudspeople for Children.
The new programme, known as Daphne III, has been refinanced and may serve as a particularly useful instrument.
In conclusion, I am, of course, more than ready and willing to continue developing this political strategy, with a view also to producing very concrete results for our citizens in one of the areas particularly close to our heart.
The UN confirmed, however, that in the majority of cases the children were not orphans and did not come from Darfur, but from Chad, the neighbouring country.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, I would like to say at the outset that the Committee on Development feels very strongly that it is important for the Commission to mainstream children's rights into all aspects of development policy, seeing this as a means of achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
We welcome this, because at the moment only animal rights have this kind of legal base in the European Union, and we urgently needed to make this the case for children too.
Finally, in the wider world and in Europe itself, we need to see that what we are doing is safeguarding children's lives and generally enhancing the well-being of all the children in Europe and in the wider world.
Rapporteur of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (EL) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Angelilli on the constructive work she has done.
The strategy for the rights of the child is a positive step towards a coordinated approach both to internal policy and to external relations.
The Committee on Employment, whose opinion I drafted and am now presenting, emphasises the social aspects of violation of the rights of the child.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (DE) Mr President, may I begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her report and on the cooperative nature of our deliberations.
The first of these is the right to education as a prerequisite for children's social development.
The second point that is very important to me is the promotion of language, as languages are one of Europe's cultural treasures.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
The problem of street children and children forced to beg is a serious problem here in our immediate surroundings.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, I want to start by thanking Mrs Angelilli and all the shadow rapporteurs, but also all the Members who have contributed to getting us to a point where we shall soon have the first decision of the European Parliament on an EU strategy on the rights of the child.
I am very happy that we are now agreed that a child has a right to a family , irrespective of whether it is the child's own family, a foster family or through national or international adoption.
With the new Lisbon Treaty the EU must listen and ensure that the rights of children are integrated into its work.
Child poverty will of course be a central issue, but also the question of how children fare in war and in relation to health risks of all kinds.
However, this strategy to be more effective and applicable throughout all 27 Member States, it must contain more specific provision for implementing measures whose application would be supported both by using Member States' and European Union resources.
Over 250 complaints against the actions of this office have been filed with the Committee on Petitions.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, children are not mini-adults, nor are they what people call a natural part of the family or of society.
They are legal persons with their own rights.
We must hope that the Commission is doing its homework and will be more specific in the 2008 Green Paper on the rights of the child.
Let me express my gratification at the adoption by the committee and the rapporteur of our proposal that headscarves for girls should be banned at least in primary schools in the EU in order to give girls genuine freedom of choice and the right to a childhood.
The second point to which I attach great importance is that of violence against children and increasing neglect.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank Mrs Angelilli for her sensitive approach to a very important matter: a society that knows how to welcome its children will know how to welcome all its citizens.
In the same way, I believe that today in this Parliament we are taking a very important step, because institutions that are able to address the concerns of minors will certainly be more able to address the concerns of all European citizens.
When it inspected those centres, the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties found that in many countries, such as France, Belgium and Italy, many unaccompanied minors, many children, are held in inhuman and degrading conditions that are unacceptable for young children as, incidentally, they are unacceptable for all men and women.
That is why that this Parliament must make a major contribution towards improving social conditions in the European Union.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I have many things to say about the rights of the child.
Amendment 3 deals with children within the EU who have previously been in institutionalised care.
There will be a screening of this documentary with the participation of the film-maker on 4 March 2008, to which I invite all my colleagues.
The report calls for further measures and - and no one can disagree with this - for the affirmation of children's rights as an integral part of the rights that are binding on the Union and its Member States and that require a specific legal basis.
The report, on which I would like to congratulate Mrs Angelilli, rightly highlights certain problems that must be solved with the utmost urgency.
Violence against children and the increase in aggression among children are grounds for justifiable concern.
Mr President, under the Lisbon Treaty, the rights of the child are guaranteed by Article 24 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Thank you for your attention. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I am delighted that the Commission is proposing to put in place an EU strategy on the rights of the child.
Because a great many EU policies affect children, we need to take specific measures so that their rights can be protected and their active participation encouraged.
We cannot understand why anyone fleeing from war or from desperate circumstances should be treated like a criminal, and that applies all the more so in the case of children, all of whom are entitled to protection and education in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. - (LT) We acknowledge that children's rights are part of human rights, which we are obliged to respect under international and European agreements.
You, Commissioner Frattini, say that it is the responsibility of individual Member States and you do not want to intrude in their affairs.
They are our future.
I think that here we are required to actively take care of our citizens. (PL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate Ms Angelilli for an excellent report on a subject that is key for the future of the European Union.
Secondly, from the point of view of children's rights, the increase in the number of alternative family structures, which is discussed in the report, constitutes a threat against which action should be taken.
And thirdly, as there is a call in paragraph 167 to provide children and young people with sexual education, paragraphs 163 and 164, which speak of the right to sexual and reproductive health, are unnecessary unless these terms are being used to hide a right to abortion.
The Internet offers children excellent opportunities to communicate and to obtain information, but we must ensure that they do so safely. (EL) Mr President, our children have independent personalities, they have an inviolable right to the protection of their fundamental rights, which means no degrading treatment and violence, no inhuman working conditions, no exclusion from education, no poverty, no sexual exploitation and abuse, no child soldiers at war.
Mr President, I agree with virtually all the recommendations made in this excellent report.
In particular, I agree that the future EU strategy should recognise the important role of the family as the basic institution in society for the survival, protection and development of the child.
I also support the right of the child to maintain, on a regular basis, a personal relationship and direct contact with his or her parents unless, of course, that is contrary to the child's best interests.
Paragraph 27 urges the Commission and Member States to take action to ensure observance of the rights of mentally-disabled children to access education.
In an Irish context they have a right to an appropriate primary education, but this is subject to resources.
Paragraph 27 also states that mentally-disabled children should have access to the courts.
I put this question particularly in the light of the forthcoming referendum in Ireland on the Lisbon Treaty. (PL) Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the problem raised in paragraph 118 of the report with regard to restrictions on free contact with children in broken multi-national families.
In proceedings, the Jugendamt favours parents of German background.
These rights are also enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I would like to thank the rapporteur that she did not allow the delicate nature of this issue to cloud her balanced approach to the subject.
Mrs Angelilli therefore deserves recognition for her report, which clarifies the theme in a complex manner.
The right of our children to a full life is a complicated system of social requirements and legal guarantees: the right of children to be born and brought up in healthy surroundings; their right to study and to make their dreams come true.
Thank you, Mr President. (RO) Children's rights are an essential topic uniting us all, irrespective of our country of origin or political viewpoint.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting my suggestion of drawing attention to this issue still affecting European citizens' lives, and I would like to assure him of my support in his appeal for appropriate care, social integration and comprehensive education for these children.
No less important is the objective of ensuring the right to education for all European children.
Therefore, I call on the Commission and the Council to give due consideration to the Parliament's recommendations, to ensure that this strategy is a success. (ES) Mr President, this report brings a comprehensive, consistent vision to the work we must encourage from European Union level as far as children are concerned.
We must involve everyone who has responsibilities in this area in making boys' and girls' rights to an equal education effective, combating all types of violence and child labour, and protecting immigrant children.
Today we not only want to see our children but also to hear and listen to what they have to say.
We need to acknowledge the important role the family plays in protecting children's rights and we need to look at measures aimed at strengthening families and supporting them where that is necessary.
There is a significant increase in the separated and divorced population in Ireland and an increase in cohabitation of couples: one in twelve families takes this form, with responsibility for 50 000 children.
We are to have two constitutional amendments in Ireland on the issue of the family and the case I just mentioned, and I think we need to see where the EU fits into children's rights so that we vote in Ireland in the right way. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, today's discussion is proof that the European Parliament wants to be involved in the creation of a European policy as regards children.
I have handled many cases in this sphere and there are several hundred each year between the EU Member States and indeed between EU Member States and our neighbour countries and beyond.
In the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the concept of the right of a child to both parents is also introduced.
In the short time available, and on the basis also of personal experiences with UNICEF, I would urge the Commission to emphasise one aspect: we need a Community instrument on adoption, for at present the 27 Member States have totally inconsistent legislation in that respect.
It is a question of the future of our children, which means our future. (EL) Mr President, I in turn would like to give my congratulations to Mrs Angelilli, who has indeed provided an integrated framework for consolidating the Charter on the Rights of the Child.
Children deserve special provisions and appropriate legal protection.
The Member States are responsible for supporting parents in their child-rearing duties in many ways.
Our policies should constantly bear in mind the diversity and different needs of children, paying particular attention to poverty, social exclusion, and negative discrimination both at Union and at global level.
For this reason I would like to give my appreciation to Mrs Angelilli for an excellent report.
Another important issue is that of children from poor, immigrant or refugee families.
For this reason I would like to support the proposal to grant them full rights, whatever the legal situation of their parents, and also give them equal access to education.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the speakers, and I am also glad they have recognised that the Commission and Parliament are, for the first time in Europe and even before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, jointly formulating a genuine, horizontal European policy in all areas for the protection and promotion of the rights of the child.
Let us make 2008 the year of further progress with this European strategy.
There are rules to ensure that one of the two parents is effectively granted custody of a child in the event of separation or divorce.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me once again thank Commissioner Frattini for reiterating the European Commission's serious commitment to the sector of the rights of the child.
I am also grateful to him for pointing out that not all Member States have to date introduced a national guarantee in relation to the rights of the child, something we also noted and deplored in the report.
The debate is closed.
in writing. - (FI) One of the most fundamental structures underlying common European values is our duty to protect innocent souls, by which I mean children.
The Commission's communication on establishing a strategy on protecting the rights of children was very welcome.
The family and the protection of family life are, in fact, children's rights, and these are realised when a family is managing well.
in writing. - (HU) The European Union has a special responsibility to protect fundamental human rights, above all the rights of children.
Against this background, a European strategy of zero tolerance that aims to protect the rights of children is of very great importance.
It is important to note that the majority of children living in disadvantaged circumstances are of Roma origin, or belong to the minority living in Europe.
in writing. - (PL) Today's debate concerning the rights of the child raises many fundamental questions concerning the proper development of our young people.
The future of our children, ensuring they can develop properly, is the issue that determines the future of our continent as regards proper interpersonal relationships.
The rights of parents to bring them up in accordance with the values they believe in must also be respected.
To speak about the rights of the child and to leave out the issue of their right to be brought up in natural families, where there is a father and a mother, is a violation of their rights.
Surely a decision about a child's adoption, where the child is handed over to a couple of the same sex, and thus deciding about the child's future destiny, and, in a way, forcing a sexual orientation on them is a violation of the child's fundamental rights.
