I know that you are all extremely concerned about the situation in Belarus, as indicated by the resolution that you adopted in May and our recent exchange of views on 16 September within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, following the General Affairs and External Relations Council.
We explained then that the Council would be closely monitoring the legislative elections in Belarus, which took place on 28 September.
The Belarus foreign minister, Mr Martynov, was invited to a troika during the Council meeting due to take place in Luxembourg on 13 October.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am speaking in this debate on behalf of my colleague Benita Ferrero-Waldner.
The situation in Belarus is in a state of flux and calls for a measured and strategic response from the European Union.
To begin with, it is very clear that we were disappointed with the parliamentary election on 28 September and the way it was conducted.
The recent release of political prisoners therefore presents us with an opportunity.
Therefore, there is absolutely no reason to change EU policy towards Belarus now.
There have been a number of encouraging signs over recent months - these have already been mentioned by my fellow Members in this House - which indeed give cause to look at whether progress can be made by means of dialogue with the country.
There are two prominent representatives of the opposition here - Mr Kazulin and Mr Milinkevich.
Therefore, our resolution is clear on this point.
In the coming period, freedom of movement between the EU and Belarus must be promoted, and dialogue must be held with both the government and the organisations not under government control.
This is also why all the European institutions, without affecting their own political credibility and subject to strict conditions (see paragraph 10 of the resolution), should seek gradual engagement with Minsk.
I consider it an important tangible step in this direction that we adjust - that is, lower (see paragraph 13 of our resolution) - the cost of the EU visa for Belarusians: currently EUR 60 for Ukrainians as against EUR 35 for Russians.
One thing that I found strange in the resolution - which I otherwise intend to support - was paragraphs 7 and 8.
It is, however, a fact that political prisoners, at least the main ones, were released.
It is also worth recalling, given the opportunity presented by this debate, that there are 14 other people in Belarus whose freedom is restricted by being condemned either to house arrest or to enforced labour for activities supporting human rights and freedom.
After all, as everyone here has already noted, the elections of 28 September by no means met the standards that are familiar to us all and by which you, too, set so much store.
I do apologise for the inconvenience but I would like to have a straight answer. (PL) Madam President, today the fate of Belarus, a country of 10 million Europeans, is being weighed in the balance.
Mr Lukashenko stated that opposition is good in any country but not an opposition supported 100% from abroad.
The Chernobyl Children's Project International founded by Adi Roche in Ireland brings approximately 1 000 children from Belarus to Ireland each year for a few weeks for rest, recuperation and, in some cases, ongoing medical interventions.
On 21 August we, the Czechs and Slovaks in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Soviet Army entering Czechoslovakia by debating the situation in Georgia.
We cannot run away from it, and we must therefore act.
I therefore give my full support to the motion for a resolution as it stands.
We must not isolate Belarus but we must not call it a democracy either.
It is very difficult at this time to put a finger on EU policy with regard to Belarus.
From my own constituency of Ireland South, something like EUR 70 million has been raised and expended in looking after children and improving the conditions in which they live in their orphanages.
I understand now that in fact the bilateral agreement between Ireland and Belarus will not be in place until May or June.
Therefore I join with her in calling for the exemption to be granted to Ireland so that children can travel for Christmas and get the help and assistance that they require. (SK) Mr Milinkevich, Mr Kozulin, I am delighted that you are here for today's debate on your country, Belarus.
Of the 110 seats in the lower chamber of the Belarusian Parliament, not a single one was won by the opposition.
The EU must call for a free media in Belarus and for all democratic forces to be able to participate in the process of governing Belarus.
Like you, we are sorry that the regime did not use the elections on 28 September as an opportunity to signal progress towards democratic standards.
The EU will maintain its support for the opposition.
As we have already said, it is essential that if a representative of a Member State goes to Minsk, he or she should meet with the opposition.
On the question of EU assistance to Belarus, assistance focuses on support to civil society and the needs of the population: the combined ENPI resources of EUR 20 million for 2007-2010 to address the needs of the population and democratisation in the broad sense, with the funding from the thematic programme for non-state actors and local authorities and the Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights to support democratisation and civil society in the more narrow sense.
In conclusion may I say that this vivid debate demonstrates that there is a clear interest in the Belarus issue at this crucial time.
This was done in agreement with the Belarusian opposition.
in writing. - (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, Belarus has repeatedly been described as 'Europe's last dictatorship' and remains so today.
The parliamentary elections on 28 September were a litmus test.
With outrageous audacity, and without citing a shred of evidence even as a pretext, the political forces supporting and serving the EU have signed a joint resolution to condemn the Belarusian Government for the elections of 28 September.
The election results should silence all the objections of EU and US imperialists, because the people of Belarus are supporting their government's policy against NATO and the EU.
in writing. - Recent elections held in Belarus can be described as anything but free and fair.
The position of the Council and of the Commission and the resolution of the European Parliament on the situation in Belarus have the objective of evaluating the results of the parliamentary elections held on 28 September, and also their impact on EU relations with Belarus.
The Belarusian authorities did not, however, meet all their obligations.
