An agreement that seeks regional integration in order to contribute to the balanced and fair redistribution of Central America's income and wealth.
I believe that trade and cooperation must be geared towards sustainable development at regional level, benefiting the people, rather than a series of projects benefiting transnational capital, such as the Puebla-Panama Plan or the European Investment Bank.
The report's cultural and political approach is therefore positive, and I do not believe that it has been watered down by the Committee on International Trade's proposal.
He has sought compromise amendments, because we believe that it is important to send a message to the Latin American sub-regions in question that what the European Union is proposing is not merely a free trade agreement, but an agreement with a broader scope that takes fundamental account of political agreement and development cooperation.
If we consider the actual context of commercial relations between the European Union and Central America, for example, we will see that the European Union's trade with Central America represents around 0.3% of our external trade and that, in Central America too, trade with the European Union represents no more than 9 or 10% of their external trade.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, these reports demand that developing countries deregulate, give European companies power where public procurement is concerned, protect European and North American patents and do everything to ensure that large European companies' investments are protected.
These reports call for free trade - which is good - but that must not be conditional on recreating the failing structures of the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Yañez-Barnuevo García, on the report on the agreement with the Andean Community.
The recommendations of the European Parliament stress that association agreements, whilst aimed at the gradual liberalisation of trade as well as at political dialogue and collaboration, are also aimed at supporting continuous social development, social cohesion, strengthening democracy, the rule of law and respect for human, political, civil, economic and social rights, not forgetting the cultural and environmental dimensions of these rights.
The countries of the Andean Community and of Central America have in the past 20 years undergone a peaceful transition from authoritarian regimes to democracy.
I stress, it cannot be an end in itself, but only a step towards establishing democracy and the rule of law, social development and sustainable development in Latin America.
We are going to take care to ensure that our abstention in this case contributes to the fundamental debate on the Association Agreement with Central America, and we are going to be very critical with a view to producing an association agreement that does not mean a free trade area. - (PL) Mr President, despite the European Union's undeniable contribution to strengthening the peace process and building democratic structures in the Central American region, its role there has diminished noticeably over the past decade.
The system of incentives tested in previous cases should prove useful in this regard.
The debate is closed.
