Greenhouse gas emission allowance trading The next item is the report (A5-0303/2002) by Mr Jorge Moreira Da Silva on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive (COM(2001) 581 - C5-0578/2001 - 2001/0245(COD)) establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC.
I am proud of this proposal because I see it as a cornerstone of the European Union's cost-effective implementation of the Kyoto Protocol.
I know there were approximately 500 amendments in Committee, but we now have a much more manageable 100 amendments Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to use my opening words to express my thanks for the excellent cooperation I have enjoyed with the draftsmen and the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups.
I believe that this directive will create the conditions for climate change and the Kyoto Protocol to stop being a purely theoretical concern in Europe and become an essential strand of the environmental and economic policy of all the Member States.
As a matter of fact, I believe that proving that this system works, proving that this system will reduce the cost of complying with Kyoto in the European Union, will be the best way for us to convince our US friends to abide by the Kyoto Protocol.
I am thinking about the voluntary 'opting in' of sectors such as transport or small and medium-sized enterprises in the Member States that feel it would be appropriate.
I believe the Committee on the Environment achieved a good compromise on legal involvement, a binding system with the temporary exclusion - with limits on both the duration and the conditions - of some companies in the first period.
I am particularly referring to extending the period of time in Article 11, adapting the penalty clause in Article 16 and the way in which Member States tax the emissions trading scheme in Article 16, Paragraph 4.
It is therefore regrettable that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy failed to reach agreement on the way rights will be allocated from 2008.
I would like to say that the wisest course of action is to start now, because in all likelihood the obligations under the Kyoto Protocol will enter into force from 2008.
The report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy fulfils all the key requirements for a good emissions trading system.
Firstly, Parliament will vote today on the proposal to significantly extend the emissions market with the inclusion of new sectors, including new gases.
As regards the flexibility that the Member States have been looking for, I believe the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has found the best possible flexible approach, so that Member States, subject to certain conditions, may temporarily exclude some installations from the emissions trading scheme.
Most important of all is the notion that in allocating these emission allowances we should adhere to the criteria whereby companies that have already attended to the matter of reducing their emissions are encouraged and rewarded.
I hope Parliament will accept at least a small proportion of auctioned allowances.
I wish to thank both the rapporteur and the Commission in particular very much for this.
There was general agreement that from 2008 the directive should be compulsory.
Mr President, the climate change policy is an open process in which the Member States all share certain final objectives and recognise certain instruments which will make this process a reality.
The directive intended to harmonise this instrument has clearly demonstrated the significant political support for this initiative and has reaffirmed the European Union's leadership in terms of the implementation of market instruments, which will undoubtedly change the way business is done in Europe.
In this regard, the innovative nature of the mechanism, for the majority of Member States, means that in the majority of cases it is approached from the point of view of learning by doing, and that there are differences of opinion in terms of the best way to make its application a success.
In this regard, I believe that the early decision on the adjudication system, bringing in a system of auctions, is not the best solution; above all, committing 15% for the second period.
With regard to the voluntary nature of the system, the compromise reached by the rapporteur, with the opting out formula, seems to me the most appropriate in terms of assisting companies, without thereby jeopardising the efficient operation of the system.
In any event, I would reiterate that this directive should not be seen as a closed process, but as a direction we are beginning to take, which will have to be improved and updated in accordance with the circumstances of the Member States during its application.
And finally the colleagues of my own group who have had to sit through long discussions on this topic.
This means that the market must be as big as possible: the more players, the more effective the scheme.
I have to say that the discussion on this score was sometimes a little alienating.
It is of great importance for us to be able to announce progress in the European climate policy in New Delhi.
I first read about emissions trading and about harnessing market forces to encourage industry to meet environmental objectives a decade or so ago in pressure group magazines.
I commend the Commission for its draft directive.
Liberal Democrats in the Parliament will be joining in supporting a range of measures to broaden its scope, to extend it to include additional industrial sectors and require it to include other global warming gases in addition to CO2.
That is why I am pleased that Parliament will today vote to give a temporary opt-out to those emission-trading schemes already established.
After the successful conclusion of the Kyoto conference in Bonn, the Commissioner told the press that we could now tell our grandchildren that we did something to tackle the problem of climate change.
There are some understandable national concerns but also some narrow, commercial interests wishing to dilute these measures.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his very extensive work, but above all for being really skilful in his cooperation with other groups and for trying to find wide-ranging solutions.
We will therefore vote on the various parts of the proposal in accordance with this.
We in this Parliament have embraced Kyoto.
And this is precisely where the European emissions trading scheme comes in, as nearly 50% of European CO2 emissions will fall within its scope.
They are very interested in taking part in an international CO2 trading scheme.
Mr President, the European Union can be justly proud of its efforts to meet the commitments entered into at Kyoto.
I commend the Commission for its proposal which phases in the directive in an acceptable way and which will allow industry the necessary time to adapt to the system by not shirking our bottom-line responsibility.
Such action would clearly demonstrate the EU's determination to make real and tangible progress on this all-important issue.
The initial voluntary phase of this scheme is important and I hope that Member States would actively encourage maximum participation across sectors.
In conclusion, I would make a general comment about the contribution of the EU to improving environmental awareness and protection.
In this case, as in so many other policy areas, the EU has touched in a positive way on every aspect of the lives of our citizens.
The belief that a reduction in CO2 emissions is only of limited value in reducing the greenhouse effect is in my view wrong.
If it indeed transpires that the part people play in causing the greenhouse effect can be minimised, emissions trading will have achieved one thing, namely that we are now more aware of, and more economical in the use of, our natural resources.
This is why, together with the PPE-DE Group, our group has tabled amendments in order to have a kind of benchmark included in the directive.
The comparison of energy consumption levels to determine the allocation of emission rights is an extra incentive for companies to take measures in order to reduce their energy consumption.
In this way, industry is offered the opportunity, based on mutual and historical comparison, to reduce CO2 emissions by consuming energy in an innovative way.
I am referring to the amendments that require other sectors to be added and that allow many exceptions to the rule.
Not only the economic climate is a decisive factor in this matter, however.
It is generally recognised that the most important step is the radical reduction in all greenhouse gases.
The European Union committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions under the Kyoto Protocol.
It goes without saying that we in the European Union want to make our contribution to an improved environment and a reduction in emissions worldwide.
I am in favour of the notion of global emissions trading as one way of cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
The emissions market would, with all the natural efficiency of the free market, channel the reductions into those areas where the emissions are cheapest to cut.
There is a very clear danger that instead of actual cuts in emissions we will end up with emission leakage on a global scale, when European installations move their operations to countries that have not submitted to the burden sharing agreement that is Kyoto.
The initial allocation must not punish companies that deal with their own emissions effectively, and the measures that a company has already taken must be taken into account.
The initial allocation process must also take account of a company's real potential technically and financially for limiting their emissions.
Coal is not used in the steel industry to produce energy but as part of the production process.
The Commission's proposal for a directive is more problematic for Finland than for many other countries.
The sectors of industry it covers account for a large proportion of emissions in Finland, larger than in other countries.
This is not the case with other countries where there are no commitments whatsoever and where climate objectives even permit an increase in emissions.
In theory emissions trading is most advantageous for those whose own measures to reduce emissions are more expensive than buying emissions allowances from others.
Distorting the competition structure within the same industrial sector both in Europe and in a global context is a danger, which must be closely looked at in any future debate on the proposal.
At the same time, though, I say that, if we break down the overall picture of emissions in the European Union, it can be observed that some are already heavily involved in reducing greenhouse gases and others are not.
Opting in, as provided for in the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, strikes me as completely satisfactory, whereas opting out does not; the two are not parallel, in that one can opt out only up to 31 December 2007.
I would therefore like to urge you to vote in favour of Amendment No 81.
If we take the two together - flexibility and fair conditions - it will be with a clear conscience that we can say 'yes' to using emissions trading to protect the climate, but under flexible and fair conditions.
We need a benchmark, the best available technology, and we need to prescribe compulsory criteria based on these for everyone and every Member State, since this scheme also affects the distribution of the burden across the Member States in one way or another.
This is why we need an effective scheme.
We will at any rate need to adjust this scheme along the way, and we will at any rate be facing climate problems, greenhouse gases, measures which we need to take long after 2012.
The same mandatory system has been proposed for everyone, with reductions in emissions being based on market mechanisms.
The fact that it is a market will not bring about a reduction in emissions.
The radio spectrum auctions in the European market were a catastrophe.
The companies that have reduced their emissions before the allowances become effective will be punished.
The EU trade in emission allowances should not be mandatory before 2008: until then let it be an optional pilot project for Member States.
The Kyoto principle is simple.
It is a question of making those emitting greenhouse gases pay the cost of the invisible and unmeasured damage they cause to the environment, and therefore to all of us.
Secondly, the European Community and its Member States should be congratulated on actively supporting it and voluntarily implementing, during the period 2005-2007, an experimental formula that will allow us to break the system in, to put us in a better position to fulfil our emission reduction commitments after 2008 and, we hope, to play a pioneering role in relation to other continents.
The learning formula is based on the free allocation of emissions allowances to five thousand large companies in sensitive sectors.
We can approve these provisions while stressing that the free allocation of allowances may not continue beyond 2008, since, following the learning period, the objective must be to make companies pay in full, and not marginally at the point of transfers, for the hidden cost of these emissions that everybody has to pay for.
As for our reservations, we would stress that the proposed system only applies during the first phase to carbon dioxide, but that it is desirable, in order to prevent distortions, to now begin to consider the means to extend it to all greenhouse gases as soon as possible.
Furthermore, the initial allocation of emissions allowances, which will first of all be based on national plans, should be harmonised as from 2008 in accordance with a comitology procedure the nature and criteria of which we have very little knowledge of, and all of this seems to us much too vague and more detail is required.
Nevertheless, in general terms, we believe the system is a good one and we will support the Moreira Da Silva report.
The most important amendment in this area concerns how we should deal with the cement and chalk industry.
Emissions trading is the market economy's tool for protecting the climate, and, believing as I do in the market economy, I am in favour of the Moreira Da Silva Report and ask my fellow Members of this House to vote in support of it.
We must ensure that climate change is reduced.
The system must obviously be mandatory.
Just like the rapporteur, I think that the system should include more gases than just carbon dioxide.
Enterprises that do not use up their emission rights during one year should be able to carry them over to the next year.
We also need to highlight certain aspects and emphasise that this must be in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol.
Above all, I wish to urge the Council to ensure that it makes a decision on 17 October.
There has been a lot of criticism of the emissions trading scheme.
I do not believe that auctions and burden sharing ceilings by country are appropriate in this connection.
The problems associated with emissions trading apply to many industrial sectors throughout Europe.
The danger is that production will move somewhere else, where it will cause more pollution.
It is clear that, however, within this context, our rapporteur has done some very good work.
We can therefore vote for these proposals although we will not abandon our fight for a more courageous and less mercenary global policy in this area.
The proposal is an outworking of Kyoto, where it was agreed that the emission of greenhouse gases was to be reduced.
A sound emissions trading scheme must meet a number of criteria: it should not discriminate between companies and sectors and it should reward pioneers for the measures they have already taken.
The scheme must not obstruct the market and must therefore also provide opportunities to newcomers on the market.
Furthermore, the scheme must be competitive in Europe and may not adversely affect the European position on the global market.
It is developing into a flexible measure, it is market-based and it will definitely help the EU to achieve the CO2 reduction targets that we have in front of us.
Therefore we must allow the schemes in front of us to come to a natural conclusion and allow some industrial installations to opt out and opt in, at least in the earliest phases of the new scheme.
Mr President, the Kyoto Protocol was widely welcomed as an important step in combating the climate changes threatening life on our planet.
It is unthinkable that an entire market should be created in order to trade in pollution as a commodity, a market on which, instead of reducing their emissions, companies can buy surplus emissions from other companies which are within their limits.
We are horrified that the European Union has based its policy for implementing the Kyoto Protocol on emissions trading and is addressing the whole problem in market terms.
This shows just how hypocritical its proclamations on the environment and climate are.
In Kyoto, the Member States committed themselves.
The Kyoto Protocol refers to six greenhouse gases, you to only one.
The Kyoto Protocol has at least three instruments, of which you use only one, and, most of all, you violate the most important principle, one on which the international community has agreed, that the world at large should cut back on CO2 wherever this can be done most cheaply and quickly.
It is quite clear, though, that what you are proposing here is European internal trade, which will not have any effect on anyone else, and will cost between EUR 20 and EUR 33 per ton of CO2 equivalent.
The Kyoto Protocol strives for a mix in which the cost of EUR 6 per tonne of CO2 equivalent should apply, and if you do as you have proposed, the result will be factories being closed down and jobs being relocated.
All fifteen Member States of the European Union have now undertaken to individually reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8%.
Over the same period, Spain, another Member State, has poured another 100 million tonnes of CO2-equivalent into the atmosphere.
This trade in emissions is in fact ushering in a new era in our economy, as waste gases - CO2 in this instance - are having a price put on them.
Where that price is estimated - the Commission is assuming EUR 20 per tonne - one can very readily imagine what significance this will have for the economy, for the energy sector, and for ecology.
I have, though, attempted to give this being a rather more human face and have brought in a series of amendments, some of which have also been adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
I believe that Parliament has the right to be involved in this by way of the codecision procedure.
My concern in Amendment No 30 is that the allocation of allowances to new installations should, in principle, be harmonised across the EU.
Mr President, we - by which I mean not only the economic actors, but also the Member States and the European Union - have to stand firm on implementing the Kyoto Protocol.
This, in my view, makes it very right and proper that the Commission should take note of the fact that certain Member States are already engaged in emissions trading, and that, as has repeatedly been said today, certain of them already have previous achievements to their name in reducing carbon dioxide.
This makes it particularly important that we should take 1990 as a base year.
I would, though, beg the Commission to do everything possible to achieve a breakthrough on the taxation framework directive as well, as it cannot but help to supplement taxes on business and thus help Europe to successfully realise ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, this is a report that is certainly of great importance.
It only remains to be seen whether it will have a negative or positive impact on real life.
In principle I eagerly support emissions trading, but it has to be said that this proposal is worryingly incomplete.
Mr President, this directive underlines the seriousness of our intent to come to terms with greenhouse gases.
I congratulate the rapporteur for the excellent job he has done in a very difficult area.
The question of whether participation in the emissions trading scheme provided for under this directive should be mandatory in the pilot phase has been the subject of much debate in Member States, including Ireland.
It is one of the key issues in this draft directive.
The desire from an environmental perspective for a wholly mandatory regime must fit well with market considerations and be industry-friendly.
This temporary opt-out provision should only last for the pilot phase because from 2008 onwards we are obliged to achieve legally-binding targets under the Kyoto Protocol.
Allow me to begin by placing this debate in a wider context, that is to say, what we know about climate change.
We will therefore need to take measures that go further than those we have discussed up to now.
We have just been talking about large emission sources, but we also need to review the traffic system and take effective measures in this connection in future.
The debate is closed.
I am sure that the talks between the members of the Mongolian delegation and the various Members of our Parliament today and yesterday will have been fruitful and serve to strengthen the bilateral links between our two institutions.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0285/2002) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council Directive amending for the twenty-third time Council Directive 76/769/EEC relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction) (8328/1/2002 - C5-0267/2002 - 2001/0110(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr Nisticò).
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive work.
This is an important directive as it would introduce a ban on substances that have been identified and classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction, the so-called CMR substances.
The Commission has already proposed to limit the risks on numerous occasions and currently, roughly 1 000 CMR substances and several thousand preparations containing CMRs are banned.
The debate is closed.
It is therefore paragraph 5 with the change I have just mentioned.
Mr President, I think the oral amendment replaces Amendment No 12 tabled by the PPE-DE, in which case, Amendment No 12 could be withdrawn.
Yes, but I would point out that under these conditions the PPE-DE Group will vote against the three parts.
Mr President, I would like to say that my group is withdrawing the first part of the amendment.
I hope that this report will contribute to remedying this shortcoming.
Mr President, I want to express my reservations regarding the vote on the Moreira Da Silva report.
Parliament voted very dangerously on Amendments Nos 102 and 98 concerning auctions.
These amendments were only adopted with a very narrow margin, with a majority of only three votes in favour of auctioning.
Amendments Nos 75, 81 and 86, which were in favour of more opt-out possibilities, were all rejected by Parliament.
On Amendment No 99, concerning the emissions of process-related coal products such as those used in the steel industry, I very much regret that this failed.
We fully support the idea that the European Union can provide rapid and flexible supplementary assistance in the event of major disasters affecting the Member States.
The EDD-CPNT members have for a long time, particularly with regard to the terrible weather in France (the storm of December 1999 and floods in the Somme of 2001), been calling for European solidarity to be expressed.
In this brief explanation of vote, however, what I wish to highlight is that it was our colleague, Franz Turchi, from the UEN Group, who had already tabled a proposal to this effect two years ago, which was regrettably not given a favourable response.
In order to create new jobs, public services that are useful to the community as a whole must take on new staff instead of reducing numbers. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) - (PT) The report following up the Commission proposal contains various contradictions and negative aspects, specifically in its insistence on advocating temporary work as a response to the problem of unemployment, despite the proposals that we tabled to improve it.
It provides recipes for the way in which a labour market can function more effectively by better tailoring education to work.
Let things stay that way. - (PT) As I advocated in my own report, around a year ago, on the performance of Eures in the 1998/99 period, the steps that have been taken, in the European Union, to increase professional mobility and to give all citizens access to this mobility are extremely important.
Portraying Laurent Gbagbo as a democratically elected president is a con-trick when it is a matter of public knowledge that the elections were fixed and that one of the candidates was prevented from standing for reasons of ethnic prejudice.
The Ivorian Government has disqualified itself for more than two years by drawing on xenophobic language against the communities originating in the North of the country.
We must stop privatising and plundering all their wealth for the benefit of multinationals such as Bouygues, Bolloré or French State-run companies.
Any destabilisation of Côte d'Ivoire, given the economic and symbolic importance of this country to West Africa, could have a particularly devastating domino effect throughout the region.
The jurisdiction for a possible common European prosecuting authority for financial crimes should be limited to cases of fraud directed against the European institutions. - (DA) The Commission has presented another communication on the combating of fraud.
The Commission owes us a very good explanation.
The rapporteur is right to refer to the possibility that has been in place for ten years to exclude from contracts companies that commit fraud, to the fraud-sensitivity of funds and to the desirability of a European public prosecutor.
