EU-Russia relations (debate) The first item on the agenda is the Council and Commission statements on EU-Russia relations.
The violation of Georgia's territorial integrity with the use of force and Russia's unilateral recognition of Abkhazia and South Ossetia remain unacceptable, and we cannot share the principles of foreign policy recently articulated in Moscow, including the resurgence of spheres of influence.
The European Union is a major investor in Russia, accounting for 80% of cumulative foreign investment.
This is in line with the emphasis which President Medvedev has placed on the importance of the rule of law in Russia.
In all these areas, cooperation is not always easy but we need to continue.
We will once again remind Russia of its commitments as a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, particularly regarding freedom of the press and the events unfolding in Ingushetia, for instance, as well as other human rights issues.
Talks in Geneva were launched last week and this was another important step forward.
In cooperation with Parliament, I intend to devote up to EUR 500 million for this purpose, and I should like to express my thanks to the chairs of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who have written to me expressing their support for this approach.
The review of EU-Russia relations with the European Council, as requested, will present a comprehensive overview of the many strands of the relationship, from our efforts to support Russia's accession to the WTO, to visa facilitation, customs cooperation, educational exchanges and cooperation in scientific research.
It should be discussed at the next General Affairs Council on 10 November 2008, at which I hope we will be able to find the right understanding on pursuing negotiations on a new EU-Russia agreement.
I say this because I know of no better way to pursue our own interests and make our concerns heard.
In all that we do, we must ensure and make clear that we have a very clear assessment of our goals and ensure that the EU stands behind these goals as a united force.
The European Union will continue to play its role, as we have done throughout this crisis, as a constructive, reliable partner, guided by its values and making a decisive contribution to stability and to peace.
Following the Extraordinary European Council of 1 September, the Council discussed this on 13 October, as Mrs Ferrero-Waldner said.
This marked an essential additional step in the implementation of the agreements of 12 August and 8 September, concluded with the mediation of the European Union, with regard to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia - as I have already had the chance to tell your Committee on Foreign Affairs on several occasions.
The European Union will continue to call on the parties to pursue implementation of their commitments in the framework of the discussions provided for in the agreements of 12 August and 8 September of this year.
You will be aware that these talks began in Geneva on 15 October under the auspices of the European Union, the United Nations and the OSCE.
The first meeting, held on 15 October, enabled the parties concerned to meet directly.
The Union is determined to maintain its commitment to the process of resolving the conflicts in Georgia and reach a comprehensive settlement based on the principles of international law.
As the President-in-Office of the Council, President Sarkozy, said this morning, it is essential to talk to Russia, and it is in our interest, as relations with Russia are so important.
It is in our interest to call on Russia to pursue the cooperation which both parties need.
I would remind you that we need Russia in order to face global challenges, such as the fight against terrorism, climate change or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The forthcoming Summit of 14 November will provide the opportunity to examine the various dimensions of the relationship which we must have with Russia, and we must pursue a constructive engagement to determine whether Russia hopes to take full advantage of this dialogue.
However, we should continue this dialogue, as the President-in-Office of the Council indicated this morning, without compromising the fundamental principles which lie at the heart of European integration.
This also holds true in a broader sense for the issue of investments insofar as European Union companies operating in Russia are often faced with real problems which currently have no satisfactory solution.
We shall also reiterate, as I already mentioned, our concerns over meeting commitments on human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
At international level, we shall tackle all the cooperation issues regarding our common neighbourhood and, of course, those of current interest following the Georgian conflict.
Far from moving us away from this goal, the Georgian conflict must, on the contrary, strengthen it in the context, once again, of what the European Union's identity represents with respect to other partners who may not always have the same interests as ours in their relations with Russia.
There are still many things that must happen: the evaluation being carried out by the European Commissioner and her departments in the Commission, the Geneva talks, and the Donors' Conference which will be held this week in Brussels, all of which are important in my view.
We will not be able to speak with one firm voice - if fact we will instead show signs of weakness - if, at the next Summit to be held in Nice on 14 November, the European Union starts the negotiations with a view to concluding an agreement or partnership with Russia without that country fully complying with and respecting the agreements that it signed with the European Union on 12 August and 8 September.
What I am in favour of, though, is active EU policy to guarantee the independence of countries like Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, and I hope that the proposals which the Commission will be moving this autumn surrounding eastern partnership will help strengthen the ties with the said neighbouring countries, so that we can help them to guarantee their own development and their own independence.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Jouyet, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, firstly if I may, I would like to recommend a good book for your Christmas holidays: the wonderful biography of the Countess of Ségur.
First of all, I would like to clarify that this morning, when I took the floor, I by no means wished to suggest that the EU-Moscow Summit should not take place.
In fact, I wanted this matter to be clarified a little better.
So, I do not know whether Mr Sarkozy misunderstood me deliberately or not.
It is a great country which is very proud, and a great country which does not show much pity and does not, in my view, appreciate others putting themselves in a weak position.
What can be said in any event is that both Russia and Georgia have failed.
Russia's situation remains very critical to say the least in the areas of democracy, respect for human rights, the freedom of press and freedom of association, the situation in Chechnya - which may no longer be headline news, but anyone who closely follows that country knows that the situation in Chechnya is still very critical - and also in terms of the problems involved in the preparations for the Winter Olympics in Sochi.
The European Union is an extreme exercise in solving conflicts and conflict prevention in a peaceful manner.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the actions of the Russian armed forces in Georgia are a particularly relevant test of Russia's current intentions.
Such a situation is light years removed from a return to the status quo of 7 August, which is a condition for attending talks with Russia.
One of the purposes of the Russian invasion of Georgia was to terrorise neighbouring countries in the region, so as to torpedo the Nabucco project, which is crucial to the Union's energy security.
We are currently confronted with a situation in which Russia, in addition to engaging in energy blackmail, has gone so far as to add the threat of military action against Member States of the Union and their nearest neighbours to its arsenal.
The present situation in Georgia is an obvious example.
Attendance at talks during the forthcoming Nice Summit on 14 November would show once again that the European Union's leaders are totally incapable of coping with Russia.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, the stock markets in the United States of America have crashed, the stock markets in the Member States of the European Union have crashed, and the stock markets in Russia have crashed.
First the brakes were applied to the start of the talks on the Partnership Agreement, and today the reason is Georgia's and Abhasia's conflict with Russia.
These goals will not be realised through political violence but through cooperation and dialogue.
That is probably what the talks going on today in Helsinki between Chiefs of Staff General Mike Mullen and Nikolai Makarov are about.
Yes, clearly we are interdependent, but not just in terms of fighting terrorism or weapons of mass destruction.
We are interdependent from all points of view: with regard to energy, to state the obvious, but also with regard to research, industry and politics, in a multi-faceted manner, of course.
Let us consider what the face of Europe in the 21st century will be like, depending on whether our nations will still be involved with promoting the immense riches of Siberia.
If the Union is serious about being a strategic partner and a global player it must acknowledge Russia on equal terms.
The politics of confrontation will benefit no-one. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, one of the previous speakers stated that the principle behind all of this must be 'no force'.
No force from either side, as enshrined in international law.
We must continue to ensure that the European Council decisions of 1 September and the resolutions negotiated by the Commission concerning association agreements, free trade agreements and the European Economic Area Plus, or whatever it is called, are observed, so that the individual countries can be strengthened, stabilised and involved without provocation to other countries and the necessary work can be carried out at the donor conference.
I believe that this is also important for psychological reasons.
When our economic interdependency is underpinned with legal and contractual measures in this way, we will be able to make progress.
We therefore still need one 'I', that is to say integration, following on from Medvedev's four 'I''s, so we can also influence Russia's future successfully from our own standpoint and increase stability. - (PL) In discussion of the conflict between Russia and Georgia, we tend to overlook what happened in Abkhazia rather than in Ossetia.
In his statement, President Medvedev returned to the notion of a common area of security stretching from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
If we now resume talks with Russia - something we are in favour of - it is, in our opinion, very important that we do not forget that there is also Karabakh, Chechnya, Moldova und Transnistria and that we will also have to cope with a very difficult dispute in Ukraine in the next decade in relation to the Crimea.
Whether or not we can solve the conflicts there in a satisfactory way, I am not sure at present, but I am actually quite optimistic that this feeling of cold peace that has crept through Europe - and indeed through the whole of the European Union - and that has also caused alarm in Russia, was sufficient warning and that the various sides will now return to negotiations in greater earnest.
Recently, our attention has shifted away noticeably from Russia's aggression towards Georgia to the problems facing our banks.
However, we must not forget that Russia currently still has more than 7 000 troops stationed in Ossetia and Abkhazia.
This is more than three times the number of soldiers stationed there on 7 August, and Russia is not, therefore, respecting the peace agreement in the way we would wish her to.
This means that relations between the European Union and Russia are still at an impasse.
It also means that we currently have no reason to resume political dialogue within the framework of joint European and Russian bodies; there is no basis for reopening negotiations regarding the partnership agreement.
This passive policy may turn out to be extremely costly for European Union foreign policy as a whole. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to acknowledge that the Council has managed relations with Russia in a more balanced manner than the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on events in Georgia.
In that resolution, all the accusations were levelled at Russia alone, and even the attack carried out by Georgia on 7 and 8 August was justified.
If, however, we really care about stabilising peace, then we must say a clear 'no' to any accession by Georgia or Ukraine to NATO.
As an institution, the European Union is simply not on the democratic Western side in the new Cold War.
Cooperation with Russia is simply a fact, and it is in the interest of both sides that this cooperation succeeds.
Georgia's attack on South Ossetia, and the subsequent escalation of the conflict, have seriously threatened relations between Brussels and Moscow.
I hope that, in spite of certain obstacles, the European Union and Russia will continue their successful cooperation, as it is in the interests of both parties. (NL) Mr President, Mr Jouyet, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no denying that relations with Russia have changed recently.
In fact, this has been the topic of a very heated discussion in our Russia Delegation, in connection with the Moscow visit we have planned for the end of this week.
The outcome of this discussion was that we should continue the dialogue, but that we should tell our partners that it is not business as usual.
First of all, with regard to the run-up to the summit: which specific signals and steps do you deem necessary in order to resume negotiations?
I am convinced that the Steinmeier plan could still serve as the main basis for a negotiated settlement, although the situation is much more difficult today, given that the Abkhazians and South Ossetians now take an entirely different stance.
They are acting as if the war in Georgia had not happened, but Russian troops, as many as 8 000 men, are still in the occupied areas.
If the EU instigates unconditional agreement negotiations with Russia under the premises that exist today, then we are approving Russia's action in Georgia and giving Russia authority in blank to continue its imperialistic policy.
Some politicians forget that Russia is actually Europe's biggest country by population and Russian speakers are the European Union's biggest minority group - up to 10 million people.
We must remember that people are the basis for EU-Russia relations.
The European Union's Russian speakers favour relations between the EU and Russia based on a strategic partnership.
We support not just an EU-Russia common market, as President Sarkozy said today, but also the freer movement of people.
I would also like to say that this is not just an economic fact: there is a western Europe based around Catholicism that could join up with an eastern Europe based around Orthodoxy, and this would effectively be a union of Europe's two lungs - its two spiritual lungs.
The crisis in Georgia temporarily opened Western Europe's eyes, especially those of our socialist colleagues, to what Russia can be like.
This fact should give our leaders strength and a feeling of worth in our negotiations with a strong partner.
Finally, Signora comisaria, the Presidents-in-Office of the Council stress that Russia's withdrawal from the buffer zone has been a success, and that this action was a positive sign.
Let us be realistic and try to predict their next move. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, there are many differences between the United States and Russia.
However, great powers also have certain similarities, and I hope that many of you may soon get to see the programme broadcast by the channel ARTE on the portrait of Henry Kissinger.
With regard to the intervention in Chile and the continued interventions in Latin America, Kissinger and General Alexander Haig said the following: if the United States is disturbed by something, it will intervene and bring about a regime change.
We can perhaps say something similar about Russia, although probably in fewer cases than the United States.
The war in Iraq was clearly against international law, and Russia's actions in Abkhasia and South Ossetia were also contrary to international law.
In both cases, however, I think it would be wrong to break off the talks.
President Sarkozy is absolutely right - and I would like to thank him for his pragmatic, clear policy: we must, emphatically, engage in this dialogue.
The second point I would like to make is that we must strengthen the neighbouring countries, particularly as they are our neighbours too.
It is clear that both parties, that is, the European Union and Russia, need loyal and effective cooperation, in particular in the area of energy.
The Russian military presence over the past 16 years has therefore not served to ease the conflicts; rather, it has been an instrument of the imperialist policy of that great country, which had been trying to benefit from these conflicts.
It follows that, as some of my fellow Members have already said, the reduction in the number of Russian soldiers in Abkhazia and Ossetia to the level before the conflict in August should clear the way for effective negotiations. (PL) Mr President, when President Sarkozy spoke in this house today, he said that Russia has met its obligations regarding the withdrawal of its troops to their position before 7 August, and he called for normal relations with Russia to be resumed.
I would like to remind you that 8 000 Russian troops are currently stationed in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, including in places where they were present before the start of the conflict.
Over 200 European Union observers have yet to gain entry to either of the two republics, which have been recognised by Russia as independent states.
If the European Union decides to take such a step, it will risk becoming a laughing-stock and will demonstrate that, sooner or later, it will legitimise every action taken by Russia, even the most dangerous. (NL) Mr President, the EU Member States have, by way of reaction to the unilateral territorial division of Georgia under Russian supervision, not closed ranks.
In other words, is Moscow really an indispensable partner for Brussels, or am I touching a political nerve in Europe by saying this?
At the same time, Moscow has not exactly shown itself to be an indispensable partner in the bloody fight against Islamic terrorism, for example on the Afghan front, either.
Only in the area of energy do the cold numbers suggest there is probably a strategic, even indispensable, partnership between the European Union and Russia: today, the 27 EU Member States rely on Russian oil and gas exports to a level of about 70%.
After all, Moscow admits that its energy reserves will be exhausted in 10 to 15 years' time.
Surely the new Turkmen discovery of gas should galvanise you into action. - (CS) At an extraordinary summit meeting on 1 September, the European Union committed itself to resume negotiations with Russia over a new partnership agreement once Russian units had withdrawn from Georgian territory to their positions of 7 August.
In order for the Union to keep its word and to show that it is a consistent partner, the single criterion for starting talks should be an assessment as to whether or not the Russian units are behind their positions of 7 August.
The resumption of talks must not under any circumstances be interpreted as our consent to Russian policy in the Caucasus and the continuing de facto blockade on talks over the future arrangements for the region.
The agreement on partnership and cooperation is a key document for cementing our relationship with Russia.
I believe that, following an objective and unanimous assessment showing that Russia has withdrawn to its positions of 7 August, the European Union should commence negotiations, as promised.
The cooperation of other players on the international stage is required, among them Russia.
Cooperation with Russia will create a common future for the European Union and the Russian Federation.
This, however, presupposes dialogue and that means dialogue at all levels, from energy policy to reciprocal investment activities, not forgetting of course dialogue on human and civil rights and democracy.
The decision of the European Union to continue evaluating EU-Russian relations ahead of the forthcoming summit in Nice is in my view correct.
The Union has given a clear signal that it is willing to resume talks with Russia on a new partnership and cooperation agreement.
It is not steps forward or moves in the right direction that are needed but real, total compliance.
Moscow needs to know that whatever it decides - whether to consider us partners or adversaries - the future and independence of Ukraine, Georgia and other neighbouring countries are not subject to power deals.
We really want partnership, but one that is built on reciprocity and mutual respect.
It needs to be said that Europe must find a way to speak to Russia with a new, different, stronger voice.
Europe needs to engage Russia, but must do so in a principled and consistent manner.
Energy, security and common neighbourhood issues need a concept of common management which does not yet exist.
In the EU, the preference is still for bilateral, rather than multilateral, action which diminishes the efficacy of our approach.
Moreover, on the basis of different experiences within the Union, there is still no common perception on Russia between the east and the west as a precondition for a common position.
On the one hand, relations with Russia should not become totally hostage to what has happened in Georgia.
It has an objective interest in frozen conflicts and in criticism of the Charter of Paris through recognition of Abkhasia and South Ossetia.
We want a critical dialogue with Moscow.
Its cooperation is essential in order to tackle challenges such as the Middle East peace process or the Iranian nuclear issue and to fight organised crime, terrorism, climate change and nuclear proliferation.
It also seems to me that the agreements of 12 August and 8 September have not been implemented in a totally satisfactory manner by Russia, which has perhaps taken advantage of ambiguities in those agreements.
We do not underestimate the gravity of the military campaign in Georgia.
Prevention is the only policy that could avoid similar developments occurring in neighbouring countries.
Of course, he did not reply, but today I can conclude that the negative scenario is not going to happen.
I believe that the challenge facing us is how to build new, pragmatic relations with Russia without compromising the values on which our Union is based.
In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is important to bring to the fore the issues that can engage Russia in implementing the policies that we have in common - I will not list all these issues here.
Remember the war in Chechnya; remember Ukraine; trucks queuing up for weeks on Finnish, Estonian and Latvian borders; the frozen conflict in Transnistria; cyber attacks on Estonia; a ban on Polish meat.
On top of all that now comes Russia's aggression against Georgia.
We are supposed to be the engineers of democracy in this House, and maybe we should talk, not really about the EU-Russia relationship but about the EU-Kremlin relationship, because the leaders of the Kremlin will change one day, and we hope that they will change for the better.
That is our duty.
If Russia becomes democratic, we must welcome them to any international structure.
I see relations with Moscow from two perspectives.
We need diplomacy and also popular diplomacy, a good example of which is the very successful Russian theatre festival that just ended in my country, Estonia.
I believe that all of us in this Chamber want the same thing.
We also want a stable, predictable political situation in Europe.
Russia certainly also needs us - the European Union - as it wants to sell gas and crude oil, but, most of all, because it has its own internal and external problems.
We differ in the manner in which we wish to proceed in our relations with Russia, in order to achieve the European Union's goals, not only in economic terms, but also in terms of respecting the principles and the system of values in which we believe.
This in spite of the fact that, just under two years earlier, in 1999, Poland expelled a dozen or so Russian diplomats, who were involved in a variety of activities, none of which had much to do with diplomacy.
When were are clearly in the right, a tough, resolute position is the only solution. (EL) Mr President, today the European Union faces the challenge of restoring its relations with Russia.
These relations must be founded on respect for human rights and adherence to international law.
We must cooperate closely within the framework of the European neighbourhood policy in order to establish stability in the area, given that none of the frozen conflicts in the Caucasus has any serious prospect of resolution without Russia.
We have an interest in seeking common solutions to common problems, to continue partnership negotiations as quickly as possible and to enter into dialogue in a spirit of mutual understanding and mutual respect.
The countries of the Caucasus and the United States must be made to understand that broader Euro-Atlantic relations must go hand in glove with the normalisation of relations with Moscow.
It is my opinion that Europe and the European Union should be open to cooperation, but clearly with the requirements that need to form the basis of this cooperation.
The recent financial and economic global crisis proved that Russia and the European Union are interdependent and need each other.
Therefore, we must convene a new conference on security and cooperation in the wider Europe, from Vancouver to Shanghai this time, to refound the principles and the rules of international relations and international law of the international organisations... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Step by step, Russia is regaining control over its neighbours and successfully achieving its objectives in the field of foreign policy.
The German Chancellor, for her part, made assurances in Tbilisi, that Georgia would join NATO.
Finally, is it the case that she has information that, whereas Saakashvili is accused of behaving intemperately, there were in fact 400 Russian tanks... (The President cut off the speaker) - (SK) We are starting from a false premise, as if we wanted to treat Russia as an enemy.
We will thereby at least be looking after our own interests. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the previous debate has quite clearly shown that we have very many points of contact with Russia, and many of these points of contact also appear to be points of conflict: the situation in the Caucasus and Georgia and the issue of energy have been discussed many times, and finally also the issue of our common interests in the financial crisis, which has been brought up once again, and rightly so.
The solution is to demonstrate convincingly that the EU is serious about implementing in practice its universal values - it is not about EU values or Russian values - and to ensure that such invasions as happened in Georgia will never take place in Europe again.
Recent events in Georgia have greatly undermined our trust in our Eastern neighbour.
The issue of security is a field which currently requires immediate action on our part. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I would like to pay a special tribute to Mr Sarkozy, under the French presidency, for ensuring that 90% of the six-point plan has been complied with in terms of troop withdrawal from Georgia.
That speech apart, however, the others have been perfectly legitimate.
The message of the European Union is that there must no longer be zones of influence on this continent.
As regards the resumption of negotiations on the partnership, I would say that the negotiation of the future agreement has been postponed, not suspended, for the legal reasons also referred to during this morning's debate, and, as the European Council said on 15 October, the continuation of these negotiations will incorporate the assessment that the Commission and the Council have been asked to carry out.
I would point out that we need to distinguish clearly between the resumption of negotiations and the holding of the European Union-Russia Summit of 14 November.
That summit will take place, and, as this debate has shown, it is more important than ever.
It exists in all fields: it exists in the field of energy, obviously, and I would even say that, for certain EU Member States, it is a dependence that we need to solve by diversifying the sources of supply.
In this context, we clearly need, as several of you have stressed, a sober analysis of our relations with Russia.
In order to ensure this, however, it is more necessary than ever for us to establish a dialogue with Russia.
In light of the very sharp polarisation of the debate between the States that have joined us most recently and the older members of the EU, it should be stressed that, now more than ever, what we need, and this debate has shown it, is unity in our handling of the Georgian crisis, and unity in our dialogue with Russia: unity on the part of the European Union in condemning the use of force by the parties and the violation of territorial integrity; unity of the European Union in its action, that is, in the deployment of civilian observers on the ground; and, finally, unity of the European Union in defining its interests, in particular in the area of energy and in the more global area of international security.
We will have a very important discussion at the next General Affairs and External Relations Council on 10 November, and I hope that we will find the right understanding on pursuing negotiations for the new EU-Russia agreement, because these have only been postponed.
I say this because I think this is the best possible way forward, but at the same time we also have to be firm.
That is also clear.
That means human rights dialogue as described today and speaking about all the differences.
As regards all the questions that have been asked about the 8 000 troops, the European Council has given a clear answer to that and has noted with satisfaction that Russian troops have withdrawn from the zones adjacent to South Ossetia and Abkhazia as an essential additional step in the implementation of the agreements of 12 August and 8 September, as well as the launch of the Geneva international discussions provided for by those agreements.
Let me now say a word on human rights.
As I said before, there are a number of developments inside Russia that give us cause for concern, notably the violent deaths of journalists, restrictions on NGOs, the situation in the Northern Caucasus in general and in Ingushetia in particular.
The latest round of human rights consultations, as I said, takes place today and will certainly also provide an opportunity to clearly mention those concerns.
We have also made clear to Russia that it needs to cooperate fully with the Council of Europe and to ratify Protocol 14 on the Court of Human Rights and Protocol 6 on the death penalty.
Concerning the European security architecture, I just wanted to clarify that President Medvedev already mentioned this at the June EU-Russia Summit at Khanty-Mansiysk - not after the Georgia crisis but before.
This is an old Russian idea that has come to the fore again, and I think it interesting that President Sarkozy has proposed to maybe speak about it at an OSCE summit in 2009.
Negotiations between the EU and Russia on a new strategic partnership agreement should continue.
The EU has to find the best common approach to deal with Russia on issues such as current global economic challenges, energy, economic interdependence, non-proliferation, terrorism and climate change, because these matters are in our fundamental mutual interest.
Now more than ever, dialogue and long-term cooperation are required.
Relations need to be strengthened in many fields of mutual interest, in particular with regard to dealing with the current financial crisis and creating the new global financial architectural structure, where cooperation with Russia, as well with China and India, is absolutely necessary, and ensuring stability and security in the shared neighbourhood of the EU and Russia.
in writing. - (FI) The Western world has once again deceived itself in its hopes for Russia.
The EU Member States have reacted to the war in Georgia in very many ways.
The EU is built upon common values and the idea that all practical problems should be resolved through negotiation, not war.
These common principles cannot be traded in Member States' bilateral relations with Russia.
in writing. - (ET) Mr President, several Members of Parliament have stated that greed is the cause of the present financial crisis.
This manifests itself in the economic sector in Russia's need for European Union investment and technology.
The European Union needs Russia's raw materials.
It is not in the interest of the Member States of the European Union to allow our relations with Russia to deteriorate.
Thanks to its political and economic potential, Russia is a serious partner for the European Union.
If the European Union wanted to promote ideas on the international arena which differ from those of the United States, then Russia's political support could provide the key to their implementation.
