Common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings - Food additives - Flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties - Food enzymes (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following recommendations for second reading on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety: on the common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings (16673/2/2007 - C6-0138/2008 - (Rapporteur: Mrs Westlund); on food additives (16675/2/2007 - C6-0141/2008 - (Rapporteur: Mrs Westlund); on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods and amending Council Regulations (EEC) No 1576/89 and (EEC) No 1601/91, Regulation (EC) No 2232/96 and Directive 2000/13/EC (16677/3/2007 - C6-0139/2008 - - (Rapporteur: Mrs Drčar Murko); on food enzymes and amending Council Directive 83/417/EEC, Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, Directive 2000/13/EC, Council Directive 2001/112/EC and Regulation (EC) No 258/97, (16676/1/2007 - C6-0140/2008 - (Rapporteur: Mrs Doyle).
rapporteur. - (SV) Mr President, I want to begin by thanking the Commission, Commissioner Vassiliou and her always helpful staff, the Slovenian Presidency, the Council of Ministers, my fellow rapporteurs, Avril Doyle and Mojca Drčar Murko, and of course the shadow rapporteurs from all the parties for excellent cooperation over the years we have worked on these matters.
The European Parliament insisted on amendments which it believed would be the basis for a balanced and enforceable regulation taking into account scientific and technological developments.
As the rapporteur, I was not seeking complete exemptions for herbs and spices from the limits set out in Annex III.
The second-reading compromise consisted, therefore, of appropriate guarantees given for some herbs and spices that exempted them from limits set out in Annex III.
This helps to maintain the limits as proposed by the Council: 4 out of 11 purified active principles and in respect of some 30 out of 40 food categories.
There are currently no harmonised rules at Community level controlling the use of enzymes, which not only creates obstacles to trade and a lack of legal certainty, but also different consumer protection standards in the 27 Member States.
She is also very pleased that the Council has agreed to Parliament's wish to have a single legal basis, namely Article 95 of the EC Treaty, on the internal market, in accordance with the amendment tabled by her at first reading.
To conclude, the rapporteur would like to thank her colleagues for their support and cooperation, in particular Mrs Westlund and Mrs Drčar Murko and all the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the Slovenian Presidency, for their hard work.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would first like to thank Parliament, and especially the three rapporteurs - Mrs Drčar Murko, Mrs Doyle and Mrs Westlund - for the considerable efforts they have made and the time they devoted to this important legislative package.
The common authorisation procedure will establish a system for assessing and authorising additives, enzymes and flavourings in a consistent manner.
This is of major importance for consumer safety and the competitiveness of the food industry.
Up until now, the legislation on food enzymes has not been fully harmonised in the EU and, as a consequence, this lack of harmonisation has created barriers to trade and hindered growth in this field.
In relation to flavourings, the proposal offers high protection for the consumer while allowing the industry to continue to develop new flavourings and new applications, in order to respond to the increasing consumer demand for more convenient foods.
With this information, and taking into account the latest scientific developments with respect to toxicological concern and consumer exposure, it will, if appropriate, propose amendments to Annex III, part B.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am now speaking on my own behalf, and I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Drčar Murko, on the hard work that she has done, and the other shadow rapporteurs as well as the Slovenian Presidency and the Commission, for being prepared to negotiate in order to reach an agreement at second reading on this report.
The proposal for a Regulation on flavourings aims to clarify and update the rules on the use of flavourings and food ingredients with flavouring properties taking into account technological and scientific progress in the area of flavouring, developments in food legislation in the European Union and, at the same time, human health protection requirements.
The Regulation lays down the general conditions for the use of flavourings or food ingredients with flavouring properties, it includes a clear definition of flavourings, general rules for their use, rules on labelling and maximum levels for substances that pose a risk to human health.
In this context, the new legislation lays down maximum levels for certain substances in flavourings and food ingredients with flavouring properties that are potentially toxic and of risk to human health, taking the European Food Safety Authority's scientific opinions into consideration.
The notion of natural is still confusing for consumers but the new proposal for labelling natural flavourings does correspond more effectively to consumers' expectations as use of the term natural is limited to flavourings obtained from natural flavouring substances where at least 95% of the flavouring component must be obtained from the natural source referred to.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, as regards the regulation on additives, my group welcomed the proposal to modernise and harmonise European legislation and supported the rapporteur Mrs Westlund in her efforts to secure sustainable protection of consumers and their health, in particular the vulnerable groups of the population.
The Council of Ministers actively opposed a ban on azo dyes.
The end result may not be entirely as I should have liked, but I believe it represents the best that could be achieved in these political conditions.
A key aspect of the draft legislation lies in the introduction of a single common authorisation procedure for food additives, flavourings and enzymes, with a safety assessment carried out by the European Food Safety Authority for all of these, which are certainly being used increasingly in the food industry.
With this compromise package in mind, I think that the objective of the proposed regulation - which, as is well known, is to harmonise legislation controlling the use of enzymes in food processing in the EU, with the primary aim of protecting human health but also secondarily to promote fair trade and competition - will be very largely achieved.
We are particularly pleased that the precautionary principle, which is held in sacred regard not just by my group of MEPs but by the large majority of MEPs in Parliament in general, features prominently in this report, and this should make European consumers feel that much is being done to secure the protection of their health as regards enzymes in food.
Therefore, let us really begin to protect children. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks to all the rapporteurs, especially Mrs Drčar Murko and Mrs Ayuso, for their constructive cooperation and trust.
The package adapts the current legislation to the technical and scientific developments in the area of food additives.
Similarly, some herbs and spices naturally contain substances which, in high concentrations, can cause health problems.
An average person consumes approximately 3 kg of the roughly 2 600 different additives with E numbers each year, without being clear about their harmful effects.
The licensing procedure via the Food Safety Authority is excellent, but what bothers me - and here I should like to ask the Commission to have a rethink - is that we are giving the Food Safety Authority nine months for authorisation or risk analysis.
Firstly, support must be given to the European Commission in its efforts to unify the procedures for issuing permits to use food additives - enzymes and flavourings - in the European Union, and particularly to increase the transparency of these procedures.
Information on this subject must be clearly marked on the pack, and also drawn up in language that is clear and comprehensible to the consumer. (DE) Mr President, I should very much like you to support the proposals put forward by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, because we want a ban on azo dyes.
What we need is a well-rounded authorisation procedure that takes due account of the precautionary principle but has no labelling gaps, and in which consumers have the right to make a free choice about what they eat. (SK) I appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur to achieve greater transparency in the process of approving food additives, flavourings and enzymes and to strengthen consumer protection, especially for those who are allergic to certain substances.
It is therefore very important to mark the products in a way which is clear and obvious to consumers.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I welcome the successful conclusion of this package of proposals and hope that Parliament will support the compromise proposal tomorrow.
More importantly, this package will strengthen consumer protection and food safety.
In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Westlund for her efforts in relation to the colourings.
rapporteur. - (SV) Mr President, let me once again thank Commissioner Vassiliou for her support on azo dyes.
In the procedure for approval of flavourings, 'reasonable technological need', for example, tackles other European strategies, such as the fight against obesity, since the addition of excessively potent flavourings can mask the poor quality of prepared food.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteurs on these reports on food additives, enzymes and flavouring.
