Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (PL) Mr President, I supported Commissioner Barrot's candidacy in today's vote.
My group therefore resoundingly rejects the Directive.
Even though the Directive might improve the legal position in some individual Member States, perhaps because national law does not set an upper limit on the period of detention, it is the overall context which is crucial.
The Directive legitimises up to 18 months' detention for people whose only 'crime' is to seek a better life for themselves and their family in Europe.
In our view, current deportation practice in the Member States does not justify or excuse treating the needy as criminals now or in future.
Instead of giving their blessing to the current practice - which violates the human rights of 'illegally staying third-country nationals' - at European level as well, the Member States should be looking for a lasting solution to the problem of migration.
For our Group, this means, above all, finally establishing a common legal immigration policy which safeguards the human rights of migrants and offers prospects to people in great need who enter Europe, often risking their lives to do so.
The urgent appeals of numerous human rights organisations and the churches have unfortunately been ignored. (HU) I too would like to add an explanation of my vote on the Weber report.
As a Member of this Parliament I believe it is important to adopt this report, which represents a first step towards a European Union policy on immigration.
At the same time, as a human rights and minority rights lawyer I believe that my yes vote is justified.
Thank you. - (NL) Mr President, I voted for the Weber report, but I have to say to you that it was with some reservations.
They have presented it as if the human rights of the illegal migrants are being blatantly denied by the Directive, whereas in fact the opposite is the case.
In the first place, for instance, the regularisation of illegal migrants by a European Directive will be pushed forward as an acceptable policy option.
The Member States will also be obliged to provide free legal assistance to illegal migrants who request it.
The immigration problem requires much more radical measures that those supported in this report, but it is a step in the right direction. - (NL) Mr President, let us take a moment to look at the figures.
However, because a small signal for a policy to return illegal migrants is better than nothing at all, I voted for the Weber report but without enthusiasm. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, by voting in favour of the Weber report, we may have taken a crucial step towards drawing up a comprehensive framework of measures against illegal immigration: measures that will respond to the security demands of a huge number of European citizens, many of them victims of crime perpetrated by third-country nationals.
I am pleased to ascertain, to note, that the European Parliament, guarantor of universal freedom and rights, has at last come out in favour of a common policy to meet the needs of Member States in the fight against illegal immigration.
It is therefore not only a matter of clamping down on the phenomenon, as some would have it, for instance with the re-entry ban ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) I voted in favour of some amendments - four, to be precise - that sought to improve this directive.
However, I also voted in favour of the final directive, even though these amendments were not approved.
I believe that this directive substantially improves the rights of irregularly-staying immigrants in many European Union countries.
Now that Europe is the destination of inhabitants of all the other countries in the world - they are quite right, of course, because they are hungry, just as the Barbarians were hungry and wanted to nourish themselves at the fountains of Rome - Europe is entitled to defend itself and to establish that those wishing to invade our territories must be escorted back to the border. (FR) Mr President, with 10 million illegal immigrants in Europe and with a Boeing holding 300 passengers we would need to fill more than 30 000 Boeings in order to meet the provisions of the Directive on the return process.
In reality the document as amended protects the rights of returnable immigrants and their continued stay in Europe much more than it ensures their repatriation.
The deadline for voluntary return saves those concerned from being banned from the territory of the European Union and Member States are called on to regularise this on the slightest pretext.
Then immediately afterwards in the vote we pushed through this report, which is the first step towards creating a common policy on immigration and asylum, which would have been a large part of the Lisbon Treaty.
Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est! (Applause) (DE) Mr President, I rejected this report because it misses the target on three important points.
Firstly, it was not possible to secure the adoption of Amendments 170 and 171, which were particularly important in terms of regional networks and would have created exemptions which are justified on grounds of size.
For all these reasons, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) opposed the report and was unable to vote in favour of the package. (CS) I voted for the report by my fellow Member Mrs Morgan because I agree that it is necessary to ensure a secure supply of gas and electricity, a sustainable, low-carbon energy market and global competitiveness.
In order to create a pan-European electricity market, we need more intensive regional cooperation in the area of cross-border transmission and coordination of investment and operational activities.
The internal market in energy represents an important step in the right direction, but it is still not enough to ensure Europe's energy security.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Morgan report.
Here I sit with my colleagues, Daniel Hannan and Chris Heaton-Harris, who are also members of a great organisation called the Direct Democracy Movement.
In some ways this report may highlight one of the potential flaws in the thinking of the Eurocrats and people who quite often sit in this House, namely that, whatever the problem, Europe has to be the solution.
The reason - and, Mr President, you might wonder how I am going to get to the report, and so do I sometimes - we do not need the Lisbon Treaty is proved within this report.
in writing. - (PT) We are confronted by a humanitarian drama in which families are not only suffering the pain of their relatives being missing, but have also had to live for decades with the agony of not knowing their fate.
The role played by the CMP (Committee on Missing Persons in Cyprus) is also vital in terms of identifying any human remains found.
in writing. - (DE) As the rapporteur, I welcome the European Parliament's overwhelming endorsement of the resolution on missing persons in Cyprus.
It is the right of every relative of the missing persons to know their fate through the exhumation and identification of the remains.
Locating the remains of their relatives, who have been missing for decades, and giving them a decent burial is the only way for Greek and Turkish Cypriots to close this painful chapter in their lives, for it finally gives them certain knowledge of the fate of their loved ones.
I therefore consider it essential to provide for an additional amount of EUR 2 million in the general budget of the European Union for 2009, and would urge the Council and the European Commission to reach agreement on this extra financial support.
in writing. - (IT) Thank you, Mr President.
I voted against the Weber report following the rejection of the PSE amendments.
However it was very important to consider our responsibility carefully as it would have had a direct effect on those countries legally bound by this Directive.
As these amendments were not adopted we have abstained on this report.
in writing. - (PT) The Directive on illegal immigration poses an impossible dilemma.
Parliament now has the impossible task of choosing between chaos leading to barbarism and poor or incomplete rules, without having made any of the noise that a true parliament should make.
in writing. - We voted to reject the report because we don't want any kind of European Common Immigration Policy.
Whilst we almost never vote for any legislation, we would like to point out that we did vote in favour of Amendment 75, which rejected the Commission's proposal for a common expulsion policy, but not for the reasons/justification given by the group which tabled the amendment.
We had our own reasons for rejection.
This vote is the very illustration of the fact that the European Parliament has not given in to the populist and electioneering campaign that was waged against this proposal for a directive, but has instead preferred to take the path of responsibility and pragmatism.
Parliament has demonstrated maturity and a sense of conscience in adopting a document that will unquestionably increase the level of protection afforded to third-country nationals living in those Member States where such protection is at the lowest level, or even nonexistent.
This vote has the double merit of not undermining those current national provisions that already provide sufficient guarantees - as in the case of France, for example - while at the same time taking those Member States whose systems are the most restrictive and the least protective to a more humane level.
I was prepared to support a Directive that, far from being perfect, would provide useful guidelines for those European Member States having no immigration laws of their own, or indeed for those whose legislation is too harsh.
As a majority of the right and Liberals rejected the 10 Socialist amendments, including those relating to better protection for minors, I voted 'no' in the end along with most of my political group.
I was ready to support a Directive that, far from being perfect, would provide useful guidelines for those nine European Member States that have no immigration laws of their own, or indeed for those whose legislation is too harsh.
in writing. - (SV) The June List takes a very critical view of this report and the compromise which is being supported by certain political parties.
The EU is supposed to be a Union of values which holds human rights and human values sacred, but this proposal flies in the face of that.
in writing. - (PT) Regrettably, the proposal that we made to reject this ignoble Directive was itself rejected by a majority of this House, due to the Social Democrats and the right banding together.
The numerous unacceptable aspects of this Directive include: the possibility of detaining immigrants for a maximum period of 18 months; the detention of families, even with minors; the expulsion of minors without them having to be delivered to a member of their family or a legally appointed guardian, and the limitation on entry into EU countries, for a period of up to five years, for an immigrant who has been expelled.
in writing. - I voted against the Weber report and deplore the terms of the proposed Returns Directive.
The Directive will allow Member States to detain migrants for up to 18 months, even for reasons outside their control.
in writing. - (CS) Returning illegal immigrants to their country of origin is a highly controversial subject.
When I take into account the criticisms of the committees (for example the LIBE Committee), in addition to the above-mentioned texts, I must say that a Directive that makes it possible to detain people for 18 months, as well as the conditions experienced by visiting Members in detention centres, only make the controversy more obvious.
Any person who commits a criminal act should be punished, including those who employ the third-country nationals, illegally and under poor conditions.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, by voting in favour of the Weber report, we may have taken a crucial step towards drawing up a comprehensive framework of measures against illegal immigration: measures that will respond to the security demands of a huge number of European citizens, many of them victims of crime perpetrated by third-country nationals.
I am pleased to note that the European Parliament, guarantor of universal freedom and rights, has at last come out in favour of a common policy to meet the needs of Member States in the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. - (FR) There has been a lot of noise from the left and far left aimed at stigmatising the Weber report, Parliament's interpretation of the Returns Directive, which does not quite measure up to what is needed as far as immigration policy is concerned.
In deliberately losing their papers or refusing to say where they come from, so as not to be returned to their country of origin, illegal immigrants and they alone are responsible for the period they spend in detention, which some believe, wrongly, is too long.
The Weber report, while inadequate for the purpose, is a step in the right direction.
The latter has now been extended to 18 months, as compared with the six months proposed by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I am ashamed that a majority in this House has supported the idea of locking up for such a long period people whose only crime is to have come here in search of better living conditions and who are often in an extremely vulnerable state.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the Weber report because I believe that the European Union can only combat and prevent illegal immigration with common rules which are tough but fair.
This Returns Directive is a successful start to a common European immigration policy.
Persons affected by a deportation procedure will now also have the right to judicial remedy before a court or tribunal in order to appeal against the process, ultimately including the European Court of Justice as the last resort.
This will put an end to the arbitrary deportation policy pursued by some Member States and strengthens the rule of law.
I also wish to make it clear that a maximum detention period of 18 months, which can be imposed by extending the six-month period for a further 12 months, may only be applied in extreme and exceptional cases.
in writing. - (RO) The proposal for a directive, which we discussed yesterday and voted on today, approaches for the first time and directly the European immigration policy, by establishing the standards and procedures for the expulsion of immigrants illegally staying on the territory of Member States.
Most Member States have experienced the phenomenon of immigration and the actions taken by their governments have varied according to the flow of immigrants.
Thus, I can say that I voted for this report exactly due to the integrated approach of immigration.
If this is adopted, despite the opposition, it will be possible for people to be locked up without legal process for six months, it will be easier to deport children, and those who have been deported will be banned from travelling to the EU for 5 years, regardless of whether the situation in their country of residence has deteriorated in that time.
in writing. - (DE) Most of the estimated 42 million refugees in 2007 were economic migrants who fell into the trap set by immigration racketeers and risked their lives to reach El Dorado.
in writing. - (IT) I wish to compliment my LIBE Committee colleagues on the compromise struck with the Council.
I am voting in favour of this measure, in the knowledge that illegal immigration will be combated more effectively with common, transparent rules.
These have now been removed by the Council and the PPE rapporteur, as it appears that they prefer a more repressive package in the hope that it will discourage those who are already in a state of despair.
The result is a Directive that ratifies a process for criminalising migrants, cramming them together under appalling conditions for prolonged periods on end and separating minors from their families, while the so-called guarantees of the right to legal aid and appeal will in fact be left to the discretion of the Member States.
In short, the Directive creates a basis for the stigmatisation and criminalisation of migrants who, without having committed any crime, will be deprived of their liberty and held in detention facilities in conditions unworthy of human dignity.
The Directive erodes European and international human rights standards by further worsening living conditions for migrants.
in writing. - (FR) The proposal for a directive on returning illegally staying third-country nationals is aimed at providing the European Union with a common immigration policy by laying down criteria for the maximum period of temporary custody, by favouring a voluntary return procedure and by providing for a ban on re-entry to the European Union for those who have been expelled.
For this reason, and in spite of certain reservations, I voted in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. - (FR) It is not that I do not find the text insufficient on certain points, especially those relating to the detention of minors and health issues, but here at last, after three years of negotiations with the Council, this compromise that has been extracted from certain Member States now imposes rules on those countries that have never had any and, a crucial point, does not prohibit others from retaining their own legislation or from going further by introducing even more flexible laws.
No, the Directive does not impose 18 months' detention: the general rule is six months maximum, with very strictly applied exceptions, it has to be recalled, in those nine countries that have an unlimited detention period.
In Belgium, for example, the average period of detention is 22 days.
Voting 'no' today is the easy, headline-grabbing way out, and in this case I am convinced that it will not serve those primarily concerned, namely the migrants themselves, who have to be helped and in some cases reasoned with.
Europe is at last beginning to address the problem of illegal immigration in a responsible, effective manner.
The Returns Directive is an initial step towards a proper policy to combat the phenomenon.
The possibility of locking up adults and even children for no less than 18 months is going too far, particularly as they are also to be taken into detention if their country of origin does not cooperate by providing the right papers.
in writing. - (CS) In my opinion, the motion for a resolution concerning common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals is not a good text.
Introducing repressive measures towards so-called illegal immigrants, such as so-called temporary custody, and keeping them under the horrendous conditions that exist in some detention centres (according to the LIBE Committee) violate internationally recognised conventions for the protection of human rights.
in writing. - (RO) The Union is built on common values and protects human rights.
The child's best interest represents an essential ground in the context of taking minors under public custody while waiting for expulsion.
in writing. - We voted to reject the report because we don't want any kind of European Common Immigration Policy.
Whilst we almost never vote for any legislation, we would like to point out that we did vote in favour of Amendment 75, which rejected the Commission's proposal for a common expulsion policy, but not for the reasons/justification given by the group which tabled the amendment.
We had our own reasons for rejection.
The proposal sets up fierce competition, especially in the wholesale energy market.
While it is true that, without an effective electricity and gas market, the European Union will have increasing difficulty in guaranteeing security of supply, sustainability of an energy market with few coal resources and global competitiveness, it is also true that this market will only be possible if there is a strong public sector.
Whilst we appreciate that climate change is real and present and we have an obligation to address this, we have voted against amendment 159 because it would knock out the development of all new gas-, oil- and coal-fired power stations.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against the Morgan report and the energy package because I believe that we are going down the wrong road.
A network of national regulators with extended powers would be a more effective way of ensuring that small producers have access to the networks.
The energy market is a global market.
in writing. - (PL) When it voted for compulsory unbundling of ownership of energy concerns in the European Union, the European Parliament took a decisive step towards creating a common market in electrical energy.
Consumers are also given the right to change their energy supplier in a very short time.
We need a proper internal market for energy in Europe and this will only be achieved on the basis of cooperation.
in writing. - I was disappointed that my own group's amendment on nuclear accident liability was not adopted.
On balance, therefore, I was able to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - (ET) I strongly support these amendments, as these strengthen free competition in the European Union, help keep prices at reasonable levels and at the same time allow consumers to exercise their freedom to change their electricity supplier any time wished.
The service must be provided to all stakeholders without interruption and with the lowest possible impact on the environment.
That is why it is good that in many EU Member States it is the State or local authorities that have developed the power stations and electricity grids.
That system is a non-profit-making resource between production and sale, but ownership of it can be misused to impose a high toll on consumers and any competitors.
The EU Member States are right to look at how these risks should be combated.
I am in favour of giving the Member States the greatest possible freedom, the third way referred to in the Glante amendment, but I am against this European directive as a whole.
in writing. - (PT) I could only vote in favour of this report.
Given the current situation in the national energy markets within the EU, it is unacceptable for one company to both own the electricity network and also be responsible for the transmission of electricity, thus holding a de facto monopoly, as it can then block access to the market for new operators who, in many cases, are more competitive.
This document therefore courageously identifies the need to increase the level of transparency and competition within the energy sector, while effectively protecting the consumer from the consequences of a closed and inflexible market.
in writing. - (PT) I could only vote in favour of this report.
Given the current situation in the national energy markets within the EU, it is unacceptable for one company to both own the electricity network and also be responsible for the distribution of electricity, thus holding a de facto monopoly, as it can then block access to the market for new operators who, in many cases, are more competitive.
This document therefore courageously identifies the need to increase the level of transparency and competition within the energy sector, while effectively protecting the consumer from the consequences of a closed market.
in writing. - (PT) This is another part of the third package of measures to liberalise the energy markets in the European Union, following on from the recommendations adopted by the European Parliament in June 2007.
In other words, the European Union forced the privatisation of a sector that is strategic to economic development and is now trying to take steps to deal with the serious problems created by the economic groups that have taken over the sector.
As experience with the United Kingdom's radical rail privatisation has shown, investors have very little interest in upgrading infrastructure.
For that reason, I voted against the Vidal-Quadras report.
in writing. - (PL) The rapporteur has prepared a very good and thorough report.
I believe that in its present form, the European Parliament's proposal will enable work on integrating the Union's market in energy to continue.
in writing. - (PT) This is yet another part of this energy package.
The Agency should have adequate powers to achieve its tasks and I was able to support the report which ensures these powers whilst guaranteeing the independence of national regulators.
in writing. - (PL) The rapporteur has prepared a very good and thorough report.
I believe that in its present form, the European Parliament's proposal will allow work on integrating the Union's market in energy to continue.
This should result in effective cooperation between the Member States.
Nonetheless, there are many accident black spots as a result of excessive traffic density and inappropriate road infrastructure.
in writing. - I consider this report another positive step forward in assisting pedestrians in the EU from the many injuries and fatalities caused by motor vehicle accidents.
I will support these issues in this vote and I consider it vital for pedestrians across the EU that more is done to improve the safety of pedestrians.
in writing. - I voted for this report because I support the development of passive and active safety systems that would reduce the impact of road accidents involving pedestrians and other vulnerable road users.
I support the report's obligations to lay down minimum requirements for the construction and functioning of vehicles and frontal protection systems.
in writing. - (PL) I should like to highlight the importance of this report and congratulate the rapporteur on the outcome.
It is a fact that 8 000 road users die every year in the European Union.
As of October 2005 and pursuant to the provisions currently in force, certain vehicles have to pass a series of performance tests based on the recommendations of the Joint Research Centre.
The proposals in this field are to be welcomed and I accordingly voted in favour of the Ferrari report.
in writing. - (SK) The statistics for EU road traffic accidents are alarming.
It is estimated that every year as many as 8 000 vulnerable road users, pedestrians and cyclists, are killed, and 300 000 are injured.
Up to 80% of road accidents happen in towns and villages where the speed limit is between 40 and 60 km/h.
In order to ensure a high level of safety in all circumstances, the compulsory installation of active brake assistance systems for all new vehicles as of 2009, envisaged in the Commission proposal, should not replace high-level passive safety systems, but should instead complement them.
The Ferrari report aims to strengthen Community requirements in the area of safety and therefore to improve the safety of pedestrians.
I agree with the aim of this proposal to strengthen Community requirements aimed at improving the safety of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users in case of injuries resulting from a collision with a motor vehicle.
I applaud in particular the introduction of an obligation to equip vehicles with a Brake Assist System (BAS), which will help to reduce the number of collisions between vehicles and pedestrians.
in writing. - I welcome this report because it strengthens existing legislation and yet again attempts to improve road safety, especially in the area of cyclists' and pedestrians' safety.
Each year 8 000 people - pedestrians and cyclists - are killed and 300 000 injured on the roads of the EU.
I congratulate the rapporter on his report and I look forward to a speedy conclusion with the Council on this issue.
in writing. - I wish to explain my vote in relation to the report by Francesco Ferrari on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users (2007/0201).
I voted in favour of the report, because I believe that it is important to monitor not only the development of technology to ensure active safety, but also to consider the possibility of introducing stricter provisions in the area of passive safety, relating to vehicle construction.
in writing. - (PL) Pedestrians and cyclists are often involved in road accidents.
The Electronic Pedestrian Protection system (EPP) is an excellent solution.
Thanks to an impact detection sensor and a detonating mechanism, the bonnet rises by 65 millimetres in 0.40 seconds.
This report concerns some positive changes to the usual procedure between the European Commission and the European Parliament.
In its decision of 12 December 2007, the Conference of Presidents designated the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead committee to deal with this comitology alignment and the specialised committees as opinion-giving committees.
The Conference of Committee Chairs agreed on 15 January 2008 on the modalities of cooperation between the Committee on Legal Affairs and the other committees involved.
This report therefore contains a limited number of amendments that were suggested by other committees in their opinions, received in the form of letters.
It should be noted that the provisions affected by the proposal expired on 31 December 2006.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the Jäätteenmäki report on the statute of the European Ombudsman.
in writing. - (FR) I support the own-initiative report by Mrs Jäätteenmäki on the European Ombudsman's access to information, and the need for a clearer set of regulations, as it seeks to lay down more precise rules in this area.
