I am particularly keen to emphasise the expertise that has been shown by the members of your administration in dealing with this very complex matter and that has led us to what I believe are worthwhile solutions. (DE) I believe the challenges with this directive can be summarised as follows: Firstly, we thought it was important not to create an additional driving licence, the 111th or 130th, but, over a period of time, to introduce a single European one.
That was to be seen more as a symbol, however, because when driving licences are exchanged we really wanted a record to be made of the licences in circulation and to have documentation so that we know precisely how many driving licences are in circulation in the various countries and who owns them, so that information can be exchanged.
These common challenges resulted in a common position.
That will gradually affect 300 million citizens.
However, some countries insisted that the time allowed for this definitive exchange should be 20 years.
We believe that a person who is a hazard on the road in one country must also be banned from driving in the other 26 countries.
A second important safety point was in relation to motorcycles.
In conclusion I would say that, thanks to the close cooperation between the three institutions, and also between my fellow-Members of this House, this directive represents added value for the public: greater legal certainty, improved road safety, more mobility, less driving licence tourism and also a plus for the economy and tourism.
It is clear from the numerous reactions generated by this proposal during the legislative process that this issue is very important to you.
Almost 300 million people depend on their driving licence for their mobility and, of course, in everyday life.
A single model of driving licence, in the form of a plastic card, will in time replace the current system of no fewer than 110 models.
The administrative validity of the licence will be limited to 10 years, with a possible extension to 15 years.
The second objective is to improve road safety.
We then nevertheless agreed that in the interests of road safety and preventing the forging of licences it is acceptable for citizens to have to exchange their driving licences after 26 years.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, at long last, we can begin the move to a common European driving licence.
We have, unfortunately, been forced to accept a latest deadline of 26 years for all the Member States to have introduced the common driving licence.
There is one thing that we know with certainty, and that is that the people of Europe want it to be easy to drive in their own country and in others and to be able to use their driving licences without administrative hassle.
It should also be possible to punish those who break the law or the rules, even if they come from a different country.
Clearly, this has to happen in a timeframe shorter than 26 years.
As has already been pointed out, this measure will improve road safety, but it will also, at the same time, counteract social dumping, so that those aiming to exploit the fact that there are fake driving licences in circulation will not, in future, be able to make financial gains from this.
The driving licence's validity may be extended to 15 years, and changed - about 20 years from the Directive coming into force.
Anyone who has driven too fast or been caught with alcohol in their blood and lost their licence can at present go abroad and apply for a new licence there.
In that way, highway hooligans have for EUR 1 000 avoided not only tiresome waiting times but also expensive medical and psychological examinations.
I regret to say that my home country, Germany, has had its foot on the brake and, after the 15 years it took to reach a decision, has pushed through a further transitional period of 26 years before drivers will have to exchange their existing licences.
Even more alarming is the situation when somebody who has lost their driving licence following a serious traffic infringement or reckless driving, is given the opportunity to sit another driving test in another Member State of the European Union.
Even so, my group prefers this proposal to be in place for the time being rather than perpetuate the present situation.
It is also clearly not practical to have 110 different-looking driving licences, which can be displayed but not understood, so the idea of having a single format and code for categories is reasonable.
We are simplifying, we are making one European driving licence out of 110 national driving licences - and with the new Member States it is already appreciably more than 110.
If, for example, someone's licence is withdrawn for drunken driving in Germany today, they can easily, and quite cheaply, get a new one in a neighbouring country and then drive on Europe's roads again completely legally.
With more than 110 different driving licences, however, controls are more than problematic.
All the accident statistics clearly show that most road deaths occur among young men between the ages of 18 and 25 on motorcycles.
I conclude that the entire proposal should be placed in the waste paper basket and recycled, but not into another wet blanket, please. (PL) Mr President, I think that it is a very good thing that we are approaching the end of our work on this important report.
They are the ones who should, first of all, improve their system of registering people whose licences have been banned from driving temporarily or permanently.
I urge colleagues most sincerely to support my amendments to reject the common position in its entirety. (PL) Mr President, in contrast to the previous speaker, I would like to stress that the document we are discussing on a single European driving licence is perhaps the first document on European identity.
One important fact I would like to point out is that the way in which licences are obtained, the training methods and the examination methods have become more harmonised.
Overall, I am very happy to vote in favour of this proposal. (PT) We are confident that tomorrow's vote will confirm the timeframe involved in the legislative process of adopting a European drivers' licence.
To conclude, I wish to comment on the controversial issue of phased, gradual access to motorcycles, and the imposition of a minimum age of 24 for the most powerful motorcycles, in the absence of previous experience.
Such vehicles should not be within reach of young people barely 18 years of age.
I therefore endorse the solution reached aimed at the most vulnerable motorcyclists, who are the youngest members of our society. (ES) Mr President, I believe that we must thank the rapporteur, Mr Grosch, in particular for this Christmas present from the European Union to 300 million European citizens.
It is a pity for Mr Jarzembowski and other German colleagues, but it is good for road safety in Europe.
Of the 2.5 million drivers on Irish roads, 410 000 do not have a driving qualification - they are on what are known as provisional licences.
Some 30 000 of them are on their fifth provisional licence.
The 110 valid models of driving licence, on the other hand, show Europe as a patchwork quilt.
The second key element in our approach is the Commission's adoption, on 5 October 2006, of a proposal for a Directive on road infrastructure safety management.
The third key element is, of course, the personal behaviour of each driver - something to which the document that you will have before you for approval tomorrow makes a major contribution, in my opinion.
Despite the improvement in road safety in general, motorcyclists are the group most in danger on our roads, with one person in every five killed on European Union roads being a motorcyclist.
It is in order to reverse this trend that, in this directive, we have emphasised access to the most powerful motorcycles on a progressive basis.
In view of the very nearly 40 000 people still killed each year on European Union roads, Parliament may be considered to be doing some very worthwhile work in undoubtedly saving a number of lives by means of these new provisions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.00 a.m.
