People have a right to know what the European Union does and what it stands for, and as citizens they have a right to fully participate in the European project.
There is a worrying gap between the European Union and its citizens.
Trust in the European institutions is falling and so is the number of those who believe that Europe brings benefits to them or their countries.
Bridging the gap between the European Union and its citizens has become more urgent than ever.
The White Paper argues for developing a working European public sphere, where the European debate can unfold and citizens can participate.
The White Paper underlines the importance of developing a true European political culture, with pan-European political groups, pan-European media and fora or meeting places where citizens can meet and discuss issues of common interest.
The development of a European public sphere is of course a very far-reaching project and it will take time.
The role of the European Parliament will be crucial in this respect, but we know that we will only succeed if all those involved – and Member States, in the first place – are ready to commit and take responsibility.
Therefore, the White Paper is a call to action by all EU institutions, by the European Union governments and political parties, by civil society and the media in all EU countries.
An EU communication policy must be based on the fundamental recognition that all EU citizens have certain rights, for example, the right to fair and full information about the European Union; the right to hear the full range of views about the EU; and the right to have their voices heard by policy makers.
Civic education is a national or regional responsibility, but there is a European added value.
Also, good two-way communication between the citizens and public institutions is essential in a healthy democracy.
The third area in which the paper proposes working concerns the media and new technologies.
The media are key players in communication policy and it is vital that public institutions at all levels of governance find innovative ways of working with the national, regional and local media.
We also need to discuss together how to ensure that all views are fairly represented in these debates and how we can provide citizens with full, fair and factual information through a wide range of channels, not only the press, radio and television but also the internet.
The White Paper therefore launches a wide consultation process and invites all those involved to think hard about these questions and come forward with their own ideas.
On behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I very much welcome your White Paper on a European communication policy.
It comes at a time when the gap between Europe and its citizens is widening.
A sense of alienation from Brussels pervades our electorate: alienation from its institutions and from politics in general.
The poor electoral turnout in 2004 was sadly a clear reminder of the need for the EU to learn to communicate more with its citizens.
European leaders have lost contact with their public and I agree with you, Commissioner, when you say in your communication that citizens expect Europe to offer them guarantees of prosperity, solidarity and security in the face of globalisation.
However, you must ensure that this White Paper does not merely remain a consultation exercise, inconsequential and detached from the very same people whom it is trying to reach.
I wondered, when you mentioned the importance of the Erasmus and Citizens for Europe programmes as a way of bridging the gap between the EU and its citizens, whether this is not slightly contradictory, given the fact that these programmes have actually suffered significant cuts in the 2006 budget.
I wish to thank the Commissioner warmly for the efforts she has invested in taking us this far in addressing this crucial problem.
We will be discussing many of the group proposals in detail later.
We need to explain to the people what we are doing and why it matters to them.
Partnership is, therefore, also an important concept put forward in the White Paper.
The EU offers one-size-fits-all news announcements instead of making more strenuous efforts to find new messages to capture the interest of specific media groups in our different countries and regions.
Quite rightly, the White Paper places some emphasis on opinion polling and the need to understand European public opinion.
The White Paper talks about the need to listen to the people, and rightly so.
I welcome this White Paper because it is kick-starting a much-needed debate.
When I was draftsman for the Prince Programme in the framework of the 2005 budget, I recall that the Commission had proposed splitting the funds for this programme in half, and that was after the shock of the double ‘No’ vote on the draft Constitution.
The Commission does not need a communication policy.
Are there, for example, Commissioners who have opposed Mrs&#160;Wallström’s communication plan or Mr&#160;Kallas’s Transparency Initiative.
It is better to have transparency, democracy and proximity to the people than to have more money for public relations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Wallström, I am going to make a very specific proposal, since Europe needs to take courageous and imaginative measures, in order to bring European issues closer to everybody and to make progress on the creation of a European public opinion.
I believe that, following all of the constitutional problems, this pilot project could be seen as a sign of a will for transparency and open debate.
This would lead people to talk about this debate; a debate to present Europe to the public, to demonstrate positions clearly and so that the people know what is decided in relation to the issues that affect each of us in our daily lives.
I would also like to add that, according to Article 8 of the Council’s Rules of Procedure, any member of the Commission or the Council can propose a public debate of this kind.
On this point, we have exactly the same position as the European Parliament as far as I understand.
Mr Wiersma, I think you made a very valid point, because this is also about the participation of citizens.
I think the services directive is a very good example of how simply telling the story does not help if the basis is not there, if the consultation has not been carried out.
I think that this is an example of where we really have to do the repair work.
Yesterday, one of my colleagues at a Commission meeting said that when the Commission consulted children about a proposal on children’s rights, the proposal which came back had been completely turned around.
It cannot be disconnected from the policy because communication can only be as good as its content.
When I heard Mr Bonde’s description, I wondered whether we had been reading the same document.
If we want to have better quality and more facts and figures and to better cover what happens in the Council, Parliament and the Commission, then we will need more staff and equipment.
In the end, we will need a highly professional person to decide what is most interesting from a journalistic point of view: should we send out a team to Parliament today, or should it be in another place covering a different story?
So there was no vote, but strong support for my White Paper.
We will have different ideological viewpoints on issues and the discussion will go on in the European arena.
You will find some ideas on how to do that in our White Paper.
It is also the Commission’s position that openness and transparency are absolutely crucial in the context of improving communications. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; While listening to this debate yet again I am struck by the extent to which it is the wrong question we are asking, and hence coming up with the wrong answer.
The Commission’s communication strategy is worthy enough in aim, but I doubt it will in fact achieve much because the reality of the EU as a whole, not just the workings of the Commission itself, are very far from ideal.
Its presentation of the dossier we are debating today – on driving times and drivers’ rest periods and the associated directive on the monitoring of compliance with the conditions imposed by the first directive – did, of course, offer a good opportunity to turn good intentions into practical policies.
It follows that the main question to ask when assessing what came out of the committee for conciliation between the Council and Parliament is whether the goals we have set ourselves have been achieved, the first of those being the improvement and harmonisation of professional drivers’ working conditions, the second being improved road safety and the third the creation of fair conditions under which all interested parties compete.
I will now proceed to set out the most important consequences of this compromise.
This is in response to the desire for more flexibility expressed by the drivers, who will be able to use the rest periods in very different ways in the different climate conditions that prevail in winter and summer respectively.
The ninth point I want to make is that the checks must be carried out not only on the road but also on the company’s premises.
The second is that there are only two references to the Working Time Directive, yet compliance with its provisions is not monitored at the same time as compliance with the rules on driving times and rest periods.
All these things considered, it can certainly be said that we have, together, come up with plenty of flexible solutions, and we do of course hope that this legislation will, during the planned period of two years, find its way into the new AETR and thus become applicable to those states that are not members of the European Union, but whose vehicles do use the EU’s roads, so that equality of competition may be established across the board.
As most of you know, I, in the conciliation committee, voted against the compromise we had achieved, and I did so out of the conviction that this House could have achieved more and that our majority on the committee was too hasty in calling a halt to negotiations with the Council.
Although most of those affected by the regulation and the directive are not exactly jumping for joy, an absolute majority of them have expressed their support for the adoption of these two dossiers, and my vote will reflect that.
Finally, I would ask the Commission to do three things: firstly, to commission a study on the traffic patterns of goods vehicles under 3.5&#160;tonnes, for I live in hope of a different kind of lobbyism and of our being able to incorporate these categories, too, in the directive at a later date.
Secondly, I would ask them to help coordinate the various bodies that monitor driving times, rest times and working times, and, thirdly, to organise, together with the Member States and the social partners, seminars on this new legislation in order to get it implemented as soon as possible.
I would also like to thank our Vice-President Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca, who conducted the conciliation proceedings with a firm hand, and Mr Tziorkas, the official responsible for our case.
The first is a proposal for a regulation drafted in 2001 aimed at simplifying, clarifying and updating a regulation well-known among drivers – number 3820/85 – which stipulates driving times, rest periods and breaks for the latter.
We all worked with the aim of finalising this package on 6&#160;December 2005, following a long and difficult negotiating process that will have lasted over two years.
I can, however, assure you that the Commission will do everything in its power to ensure that the working time directive is applied in full.
On 19&#160;December, the Commission also sent ten reasoned opinions to the Member States that had not yet notified full transposition of this directive.
One final word on the digital tachograph.
Mr&#160;Markov, you questioned me on three points.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I dare to hope that you will be able to endorse the outcome of this conciliation procedure and that, together, we will finally be able to close this matter more than two years after the Commission put forward its proposal.
It was a curious experience to discover that, even though we were talking about driving times and rest periods in road transport, nobody had ever defined what is meant by ‘driving time’.
I think that the proposals that the Council made in this respect were quire right too.
Making these things capable of being checked – so that both the driver and the person doing the checking know what is coming to them – is, as I see it, a really important advance.
I think we have made a few things in this connection abundantly clear.
We had already asked a few questions on behalf of the Commission, but we would have preferred to have wrapped up the whole business with the digital journey recorder as long ago as August 2004.
I would go so far as to say that I am convinced that there are many areas in which we have no need of lots of new legislation; what we need is simplification, along with, in some cases, a certain tightening up of the scope for interpretation, so that the people in the various countries know what to expect.
That being so, I would also like to thank the Commission, which will take the initiative in dealing with serious misdemeanours.
The ten Member States in question are Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain.
I wish the Commission had supplied us with this information earlier on in these proceedings, for then, I believe, the fact that this directive had not even been transposed in ten Member States might well have caused our debate on this subject to take a slightly different course.
The Council has chosen to stand in the way of that, and that is why, today, this result gets a ‘no’ vote from me. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, throughout the work on these two directives, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has been an adherent of more stringent monitoring of compliance with the rules on driving and resting times, and we welcome the digital tachograph, for there is a need for more uniform and consistent enforcement of the rules.
It is a fact that the rules are complicated, but they are well established and they are known by the drivers.
The issue of monitoring drivers’ working time has been important in the negotiations.
The ALDE Group was opposed to the police being handed responsibility for monitoring compliance with the rules governing drivers’ working time.
That common cause was one and the same as the original intention of the directive: to do away, in Europe, with the accidents in heavy traffic and impairments to road safety caused by drivers suddenly succumbing to cumulative driving fatigue, as well as with the scandalous social dumping in the transport industry, which results in unfair competition not only between European countries but also between them and third countries, with all those who act fairly and properly – not least towards their employees – losing out.
During the conciliation process on this matter, though, it has to be said that we came up against a concrete wall – a concrete wall in the Council, which made it impossible for us to go as far as really would have been necessary and useful.
What eventually persuade me to support the directive after all was the need for this monitoring to be tightened up, for that is indispensable.
I did, however, find it a rather bitter experience to discover that, right up to the end, the Council was not willing to be persuaded of the indispensability of measures aimed at making our roads safer and dealing with social dumping.
We, too, would have liked to see a connection made with the monitoring of working times, but, if you had had your way late on the evening of 6 December, we would have ended up with nothing at all.
That is why I am appealing to all Members of this House to support the compromise when we vote at noon today.
There are, though, Commissioner, two points that I would like to make.
It is very embarrassing.
We must ensure that all Member States carry out those checks and we need coordination between the enforcement authorities in all Member States.
Member States could do more than simply apply laws.
In fact, the purpose and necessity of a number of provisions in the present agreement can still be called into question.
Thank God, the daily rest period remained restricted to 11 hours.
The shorter weekly resting times can now simply be taken in the vehicle.
That is why the Council too rejected the proposal, which would allow the Member States' controlling authorities to carry out inspections and ascertain the extent to which the working time limits laid down in the Working Time Directive are being applied and to take account of drivers' fatigue as a result of loading and unloading the vehicle and other factors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, after more than 20 years, the legislation we have on social conditions in road transport is due an overhaul.
In those 20 years, legislation has acquired a status in its own right as a basis for corporate transport patterns.
I would particularly refer to the 11 hours of daily rest time and Directive 2002/15/EC that has been left out of the equation.
I am convinced, however, that the present agreements will contribute in a positive way to a healthy and stable sector; after all, all parties involved stand to benefit from them.
This proposal is a sledgehammer to crack a nut and, just like the port services directive, it should be disposed of into the waste bin. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how familiar the people of Thuringia are with the European regulation on driving times and rest periods.
The text submitted to us today has been around since 2001.
Nevertheless, I very much regret what Mr&#160;Jarzembowski said about Mr&#160;Piecyk.
That is the reality of the matter, and I believe that we have let a great social text slip by.
Like the majority of my fellow Members, I am delighted that the European Union should have taken up the issue of the harmonisation of social legislation in the area of road transport, even if there is still a great deal to be done.
In this context, contrary to what Mr&#160;Mote said, all of the European transit countries, with France being one of them, are particularly aware of the need not only to improve road safety and working conditions for road hauliers, but also to eliminate distortions of competition and to fight against social dumping.
That is why, in the end, we will adopt this text.
I am also thinking of the small businessmen in this sector who live in daily fear of going bankrupt, victims of the criminal dogma of free and undistorted competition, who are very far removed today from the ideals that first led them to become self-employed.
The risks do not matter; after all, there is insurance.
It contains a readily workable break regulation – 11 hours instead of 12 hours of rest – and allows drivers to decide for themselves where to sleep rather than having Parliament deciding the matter for them.
I should like to ask Commissioner Barrot for his opinion on this, because this will really cause practical problems.
I therefore hope that you will really take action. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Markov for doing such a good job.
I therefore propose that we vote in favour of this conciliation proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have protested in this Chamber on every available occasion about this unnecessary piece of legislation.
I can guarantee to every Member in this House that the negative effects will be mirrored in other Member States as well.
Over the coming years, then, our main concern will have to be with compliance with these new standards and we will, in particular, have to concentrate on how that compliance is monitored.
Although that will be a matter primarily for the Member States and their administrative structures to deal with, the Commission would be well advised to lead back to the path of virtue those offenders in certain Member States – and there will certainly be some – who neglect to do so.
The problem is that it is not applied widely enough, and I want to say to the Commission and the Council that the Council too must agree to the proposal we have put forward here in Parliament concerning a new Working Time Directive.
It would therefore be a mistake to vote against the proposal.
It is clear that Mr Markov’s work makes progress on the social conditions for persons performing mobile road transport activities and increases road safety, but it also has a very important connection with the general debate we are involved in against those who want to empty European laws of all content.
We have made a huge effort to persuade the Council that our positions are correct.
I should like to oppose what some MEPs have said and point out that our objective is to act in the interests of drivers and of industry by adopting social standards that will make our roads safer.
It is true that heavy goods vehicles are involved in only 6% of accidents, but 16% of these accidents are fatal.
I would point out that, among the Member States that received a reasoned opinion, Ireland has already put its situation in order.
If the other Member States do not do so, then the Commission will still have the option of bringing them before the Court.
The new Eurovignette Directive, adopted by Parliament and the Council, will make it possible for the Member States to install tolls on these alternative routes. – I will request that fellow Members keep their noise down when entering the Chamber so that we may hear the interesting replies from Mr&#160;Barrot.
The Commission is working with officials from the Member States to ensure that the introduction of the digital tachograph is coherent and harmonised, both on the roads and in businesses.
A clear limit on weekly driving times, the impossibility of bypassing rest breaks, a simplified daily rest period, regular weekly rest periods, a standard policy in relation to interpreting and applying the regulation, the extraterritoriality of penalties and greater accountability throughout the transport chain: these are the main breakthroughs in the regulation.
As for the directive, it enables us to increase the number of checks, both on site – at the roadside in this case – and also on the premises of the businesses, where the checks will be mainly carried out.
You have, I might add, been warmly applauded on all sides of the Chamber. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have no idea which Rule, but it is unacceptable in my view that I am unable to listen to the Commission at the end of a debate.
I had great difficulty in making out the Commissioner’s concluding remarks.
I believe that this has to do with the self-discipline of Members, who ought to have the courtesy and, I will add, intelligence, to listen right up to the end of the debates, especially when the Commission makes a point of replying in detail, as Mr&#160;Barrot just did.
The debate is closed.
Mr&#160;Lammert has made his first visit this morning to the European Parliament since the last election of the Bundestag.
On the other hand, the position that consists of accepting the Commission’s plan to retain certain mandatory sectors, while rejecting the Commission proposal, is not coherent.
The rapporteur has agreed to this wording. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like simply to highlight some formal and substantive errors with regard to the translation of the Italian text.
The same goes for paragraph 10, in which ‘concrete and positive recommendations’ are mentioned, whereas the English text only mentions ‘concrete’, and not positive, recommendations. &#160;&#160; The English version is deemed authentic.
In paragraph 3, therefore, rather than ‘the main objective of the changes made by the Council in January 2005’, it should say ‘the changes to the supplementary measures accompanying the Council's common position’. &#160;&#160; These are technical corrections that will be made. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise under Rule 108.
We are about to vote on a resolution which is in response to an oral question tabled to the Council last night.
Whilst I would ask Members to support this text in its entirety, could I ask the President to ask the Council if we could have the answers in writing, please. &#160;&#160; That goes without saying, Mr&#160;Wynn.
The request will therefore be sent to the Council. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; I was extremely pleased to vote for the legislation concerning working conditions of drivers engaged in road transport activities.
It establishes that all new vehicles should be fitted with digital tachographs and it defines a ‘regular daily rest period’ as any uninterrupted period of rest of at least 11 hours, which alternatively may be taken in two periods.
In addition, a new definition on ‘driving time’ has been agreed upon, as well as the provisions of the European agreement concerning the work of crews of vehicles engaged in international road transport, which are now being aligned with those of the regulation.
Finally, it acknowledges that the maximum weekly working time of 60 hours per week must be respected.
I must also say that this matter ought to be resolved in such a way as to contribute towards not only improving road safety on Europe’s motorways but also ensuring economic equity as regards development and growth in the transport sector throughout the Member States.
As the Unions have pointed out, although the regulation that has just been adopted may improve working conditions in some countries, it falls short of the collective working regulation in force in Portugal concerning the organisation of working time, the determination of minimum daily and weekly rest periods, and the monitoring thereof.
It remains to be seen whether the social position of the drivers concerned will actually be improved as a result of this agreement.
We may at last have achieved standardised driving times and rest periods in the road transport sector, but the final version does not incorporate, among other features that are of importance to me, comprehensive references to the Working Time Directive.
Since this has not happened on this occasion, I have voted against both these dossiers.
The regulation on the harmonisation of social legislation relating to road transport was intended to introduce into the road transport sector uniform rules on working conditions and safety on the road that had been needed for a long time.
We may at last have achieved standardised driving times and rest periods in the road transport sector, but the final version does not incorporate, among other important features, comprehensive references to the Working Time Directive.
According to the proposal, mandatory ranges could be justified in very specific sectors, such as wines, spirits, soluble coffee, aerosols and white sugar, where Community rules had already fixed harmonised mandatory sizes.
Parliament has also specified that the directive will not apply to pre-packed bread, spreadable fats, or tea, for which national rules on nominal quantities will continue to apply.
On the one hand, it may, from the point of view of the internal market, be good to have standards that ultimately benefit the consumer.
Mr Brok’s report moves us in the right direction.
The report also states that the European Parliament must be consulted when common foreign and security policy guidelines are devised at the beginning of each year.
Paragraph 4 brazenly lists the measures taken "to anticipate the application of some of the provisions of the new Constitutional Treaty" despite the welcome rejection of the Constitution.
Paragraph 10 mistakenly considers "home defence&#160;as a&#160;vital part of the European Union's security strategy", whereas it is the preserve of national governments.
We therefore abstained in the final vote. &#160;&#160; We voted in favour of the report.
We interpret the concept of a ‘minimum income’, which appears in paragraph 4 f), as signifying a guaranteed reasonable standard of living, as we are well disposed towards a guaranteed reasonable standard of living but opposed to the introduction of state-regulated minimum wages. &#160;&#160; The Swedish Conservative delegation has today chosen to abstain from voting in a vote on the current situation in combating violence against women and any future action.
We are firmly convinced that issues concerning gender equality and policy on crime should be decided on by the Member States, which are best placed to make decisions in these areas.
The Conservatives have set the pace at national level when it comes to many of the measures discussed in the report.
This is a phenomenon that affects women of all ages, levels of education and social backgrounds, although there are some forms of violence that are strongly linked to poverty and social exclusion.
It should not be forgotten that violence by men against women is a phenomenon associated with the unequal distribution of power between the sexes, which in itself is a further reason why this type of crime has not been sufficiently reported and condemned.
I welcome the adoption – albeit only partial – of some of the proposals that we tabled, especially the acknowledgement that poverty and marginalisation are underlying causes of the rise in the trafficking of women and that prostitution is not tantamount to a job.
It is extremely important that public awareness of these issues be raised in the Member States.
It can never be justified or perceived in relative terms.
The whole of society must make a stand against violence.
We cannot allow this problem to be sidelined or understate its importance for society.
I supported Mrs&#160;Carlshamre’s report because we are bound to do all in our power to eliminate violence against women.
Whilst recognising that the declaration on the elimination of violence against women adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1993 was an important milestone in the recognition of the problem of domestic violence against women, this report rightly stresses that, in the EU context, more can be done.
I especially support its calls for a fundamental analysis of the extent of the problem following studies carried out in three EU countries showing that 40-50% of women had, at some point in their lives, been subjected to violence by a man.
It can therefore be seen as nothing other than a disgrace that it appears to be possible, in this EU of ours, to enact regulations on the curvature of cucumbers and bananas, but not to devise across-the-board rules on how violence against women is to be punished.
It is therefore crucial that the 25 national criminal sets of legislation from now on consider children, like their mothers, to be victims.
For most people in society violence against women is abhorrent, but we know it exists.
I support the actions proposed to facilitate changes, especially in the area of trafficking and domestic violence. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the excellent report by my fellow Member, Mrs&#160;Edite Estrela, on equality between women and men in the European Union, and I am delighted that it should have been adopted almost unanimously by the European Parliament.
By doing this, the EU will set a clear example to the whole world in favour of the human values that we champion and that together constitute one of the pillars of European integration. &#160;&#160; The Swedish Conservative delegation has today chosen to abstain from voting in a vote on equality between women and men in the EU.
It is not, however, the EU’s task to define which measures should be taken in the Member States or by other actors in society.
What is more, the report strays into areas that not even the Member States should regulate, for example that of whether political parties are examining strategies for getting more women into their party structures.
We are aware, however, that it is merely another statement of intent on Parliament’s part, at variance with the policies already put in place, which, in some cases, are undermining equal rights and exacerbating discrimination, for example in the labour market.
We welcome the adoption of a proposal urging the Commission to notify Parliament of the progress made in the various Member States with regard to the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action, not least in the area of reproductive and sexual health, and to disclose statistical data on all Member States.
The report stresses the disparities that still exist in underlying factors such as employment, the wage gap, lifelong education and training.
It also assesses the ways in which professional, family and private life can be successfully combined. &#160;&#160; .Dealing with equality between men and women means above all being aware of just how far things have come in over a century and since the initial struggles for female emancipation, but it also means keeping in mind how much still needs to be done if gender equality is to become an integral part of everyday life.
To mention only two of them: a pay gap estimated at 16% and an employment rate of females aged between 15 and 24 that is stagnant, despite women in this age group being educated to a higher level.
It also means applying in practice equal parental rights.
In order to ensure all of these improvements to people’s everyday lives, the European Union must champion the best standards and raise their sights and aspire to the success of the Scandinavian countries where gender equality measures are concerned. &#160;&#160; . – The Communist Party of Greece voted against the report, because it uses social problems of the working classes to speed up and extend capitalist restructurings which affect both sexes.
The basis for equality can only be laid within the framework of grass-roots power, in which grass-roots wealth comes through production and the goods produced. &#160;&#160; – As regards the vote on the postal directive, I feel it is extremely important to mention the need to maintain guaranteed universal service.
The completion of the internal market in postal services needs to take account not only of the sector’s economic importance, but also its irreplaceable territorial and social dimension.
We must therefore pay particular attention to the territorial and social dimension of postal networks when we are called on to make decisions on the reforms in the sector, in light of the far-reaching impact that those decisions may have when the postal services are entirely opened up to competition.
I therefore feel it is crucial that the planned study analyse whether the provisions of the postal directive are sufficiently clear as regards the obligation to provide a universal service and whether an adequate framework is established for the Member States.
The struggle of the workers in the sector, and that of the people – I refer in particular to the numerous demonstrations against post office closures and in favour of ensuring postal delivery – has succeeded in delaying and in some cases actually blocking this process, in some of its most detrimental aspects.
The purpose of this report by Parliament is to assess the impact thus far of the liberalisation in the EU Member States, ahead of new initiatives by the Commission aimed at deepening it.
The report fails to criticise the current process of liberalisation, or to expose the detrimental consequences thereof, such as the closure of outlets, the cuts to daily home delivery and the reduction in employment levels; it does quite the opposite, in fact.
The national postal services responded to the pressure from this liberalisation process by starting to change their structures and to reposition themselves.
That is not something for which the EU’s 2002 Post Directive can be blamed, for it prescribed no such sanctions at national level.
Implementing directives in this way further encourages the public in their sceptical attitude towards the EU, and in their belief that the responsibility for this state of affairs lies with Brussels and nowhere else.
It is as vital as ever to show solidarity with the heroic struggle of the Palestinian people and with the Palestinian national movement.
The EU’s abandonment of sanctions in 2005 has been an utter failure.
As ever with Marxist extremists, be they Castro or Sinn Fein, they simply pocket the concessions and carry on regardless.
New legislation contained in Directive 43 and Resolution 46 requires all operational house communities to register with the authorities.
The resolution also omits any reference to the existence of the US base at Guantanamo, where the Bush Administration is holding prisoners without trial and is riding roughshod over human rights and the Geneva Convention.
The situation of human rights in Cuba is by no means perfect and on some occasions the Cuban authorities have been their own worst enemies in refusing permission for representatives of the to travel to Strasbourg to receive their share of the Sakharov Prize recently.
I also believe, however, that foreign policy is a national matter and that multilateral channels, such as the UN, are the only acceptable alternative for influencing countries not in the immediate vicinity of the EU.
This is the same EU that, lest we forget, called for a change to the political system in Cuba in its 1996 common position, thereby interfering in an issue that is exclusively the responsibility of the Cuban people.
The majority in this very Parliament, in a cynical move, criticised the US embargo on Cuba, yet also called for continued sanctions imposed on Cuba by the EU.
This is a country that, in spite of the embargo, achieved the highest economic growth in the past 45 years in 2005, a country that is set to take on the presidency of the non-aligned movement and to host its 2006 summit, and a country that sends thousands of doctors, teachers and sports coaches to other countries, rather than armies to occupy, exploit and oppress. &#160;&#160; .
The main problem in the Cuban situation is caused by the US-led blockade and the aggressive US threats against Cuba.
Putting an end to the blockade and stopping the aggressive threats by the US would be the most important step in creating an atmosphere in which there would be better possibilities to create true democracy in Cuba.
The Cuban Government has also its own individual responsibility to bear.
The main problem in the Cuban situation is caused by the US-lead blockade and the aggressive US threats against Cuba.
Putting an end to the blockade and stopping the aggressive threats by the US would be the most important step in creating an atmosphere in which there would be better possibilities to create a true democracy in Cuba.
The Cuban government also has its own individual responsibility to bear.
If we condemn Cuba, – we are treating as of no account that country’s efforts at developing in another way, which it is doing in the teeth of resistance from many quarters; – we are ignoring Cuba’s exemplary achievement in making provision for its people’s welfare, which it continues to do despite the American embargo and serious economic problems; – we are denying that the continued existence of the Cuban system offers a glimmer of hope to those in the so-called Third World who are on the losing side in a globalised world in which markets and profits matter more than anything else.
This resolution is not aimed at defending human rights, but rather at condemning the Cuban system and contributing to its downfall.
National implementation must go hand in hand with the definition of national priorities on the ground, especially when it comes to the Structural Funds.
We therefore feel that the Council must adopt the management regulation on which Parliament has now given its opinion.
The EU needs to find new ways of working to ensure legitimacy of our decisions.
