The European Parliament must do what it can to avert this catastrophe.
Yesterday Mr Lannoye moved to table the motion by 185 members to set up a temporary committee of inquiry into ECHELON in accordance with Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure, which was rejected by a majority at the Conference of Presidents' meeting on 13 April, for a resolution by Parliament.
Mr President, I do not know if the problem lies in the wording, but this does not appear to answer the question I was asking.
In fact, on tomorrow' s agenda, the Conference of Presidents has tabled its proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee, not a committee of inquiry.
Mr President, I think that it is quite reasonable to propose two votes at the same time, but I insist that there should be two votes: firstly, a vote on the principle of establishing a committee of inquiry, which was rejected by the Conference of Presidents, and there may have to be a second vote if agreement is reached on establishing a temporary committee, which, I must point out, serves a quite different purpose.
These are two different problems and a close look at the Rules of Procedure will show that Rule 151 does not provide for a temporary committee: it only mentions a committee of inquiry.
Decision on urgent procedure The next item is the vote on the motion for urgent procedure with regard to the proposal for a Council Regulation [COM(1999) 576 - C5-0280/1999 - 1999/0236(CNS)] amending Regulation (EEC) No 1251/1999 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops to include flax and hemp grown for fibre and the proposal for a Council Regulation [COM(1999) 576 - C5-0281/1999 - 1999/0237(CNS)] on the common organisation of the market in flax and hemp grown for fibre.
I should like to reiterate my express thanks in this connection to the Commission and Commissioner Fischler, who has been most cooperative in this matter.
The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has tabled a procedural motion.
Secondly: next year will mark the tenth year without any material progress with the legal status of European political parties or life breathed into the Treaty.
Thirdly: we would remind the House of the important preliminary work carried out in the Tsatsos report adopted in 1996 and the Kuhne report of 13 April 2000.
We want to give them this opportunity and we want, above all, to ensure that, in all aspects of support for European political parties, we have a transparent situation and clear legal conditions which can be presented as such to the public.
This will serve the credibility not only of the parties but also of the European Union and the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, I agree with the words of chairman Poettering on this joint initiative and, if you will allow me, I would like first of all to remind you that ten years ago we achieved jointly - on that occasion we were the Christian Democratic Party, the Liberals and the Socialists - the inclusion in the Treaty of Maastricht of the article recognising the personality of the political parties.
We want to resolve this problem which is not just a question of a legal vacuum but a constitutional problem for the European Union.
We have made certain useful suggestions so that we may find our way out of a situation which is not only unsatisfactory but also negative for the development of democracy in Europe.
We have taken an initiative across the various political groups, which we presented in February to President Prodi.
As a matter of law there has been a reference to political parties in the Treaty for more than seven years now.
It states that the parties are a factor for integration, they contribute to the formation of European awareness and are a vital element in the democratic life of the Union and the political debate of the Union.
The question is: can the Commission take an initiative which breathes life and operational content into the aspirations of Article 191?
That really is what the debate is about in this House today.
We are asking for your assistance to ensure that this vital element, as the Treaty states, in the democratic life and political debate of the Union is validated by statute.
Mr President, according to the Treaty, parties which contribute to informing the citizens about events which take place within the Union and the European Parliament are political parties, and therefore, by their political activities, they contribute to the development of a European awareness and European knowledge.
They contribute to forming a European awareness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the Union" .
Nevertheless, as I have just said, as important as this text is, it is merely declaratory.
Firstly, the requirement for speed: things have perhaps dragged on for too long over a period of ten years, without any solution being found.
The first, which was recommended in the Ferber report, would be to draw up a legislative proposal on the basis of the current Treaty.
In this framework, Article 308 could be an operational measure, at least in a provisional phase, linking it to Article 191, in content.
But, and I am not saying 'but' in a restrictive way, it is simply an expression of the concern for legal security that I mentioned, you know as well as we do that the use of Article 308 is cause for quite widespread reservation and that, in any event, it requires unanimous agreement following consultation of the European Parliament.
We shall do so in light of the discussion which will take place in July, by working on and using the optimum legal combination of articles 308 and 191.
The Commission has therefore responded very favourably to this request.
In the next few days, it will shoulder its responsibilities and will, in the spirit that I have just mentioned, launch a three-stage initiative, with the reservation that I mentioned right at the beginning of my speech, which is the coordination that there must be between us, with all the institutions.
The germ of the idea was already present in the Commission opinion of 26 January, which I delivered to you, with President Prodi, on the subject of the European Commission' s proposals for reforming the institutions, as, in the text of 26 January we proposed, as you yourselves did, to draw up European lists for the European elections.
That is why, in the next few days, the Commission will be adopting the initiative that you have been requesting, first through the trialogue and then by looking at how the optimum combination of Articles 308 and 191 can be achieved within the framework of the IGC.
Secondly: I am also delighted that we are again stepping up the political debate on the party statute, the pressure of time in the run up to the final stage of the intergovernmental conference notwithstanding.
This is also a question of political self-awareness, a question of political identity, a question of the role of national and European parties in the unification process.
But a stronger European Parliament depends on strong groups in Parliament which have the authority to act.
We want a strong Commission which drives the European integration process forward.
We want a statute for European political parties because our democracy is a civil and party-political parliamentary democracy.
My group started taking steps in this direction even before the Court of Auditors' report in order to clarify this transparency and this division.
Mr President, I take good note of Commissioner Barnier' s statement and the commitment which the Commission is making.
The Union Treaty, at that time signed by the twelve Heads of State and Government and ratified by all the parliaments of the Member States with the approval of the European Parliament, which recognises citizenship, is not, it appears, a sufficient legal basis.
This surprises me because to be associated with a political party is a fundamental right for citizens and, while our citizenship is recognised, that right is not.
I understand that the proposal relating to the tripartite dialogue and stemming from Article 308 is a provisional proposed legislative provision and the best laws, at least in my country, are provisional laws, which are the ones which have lasted the longest.
The second step is the amendment of the Treaties.
I believe I can say that we all support it, but the important thing at the moment is, firstly, the existence of a public commitment by the Commission to exercise its right to initiative, a common will to consolidate a fundamental dimension for European citizenship and contribute immediately to the political parties beginning not only to exist in reality, but also to be legally recognised, because I believe that this is an important step towards the construction of European democracy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I naturally concur with Mrs Hautala' s views on transparency.
I hope that the Commission can give me a clear answer to it.
Direct links with people exist not at a pan-European, but at national or regional level.
On 12 December last year, the chairmen of the Party of European Socialists, the European People' s Party, the Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and the European Free Alliance and the secretary-general of the European Federation of Green Parties themselves stated in a joint declaration that clarification was needed as to what a European party is.
I have nothing against European parties.
The criticism of the Court of Auditors was justified.
I should like to close by saying that I too am in favour of finding a solution to this muddle.
Mr President, I would first of all, perhaps specifically for the benefit of the German delegates, insofar as they still care about respecting the rule of law, like to remind you of the judgement by the German Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe, in which the European Union is unambiguously defined as a confederacy, and hence the opposite of a federal state.
In fact, this vision of the European Union is also held by the large majority of citizens of our Member States for whom our Union is a close partnership of free peoples and states which very clearly respects the principle of subsidiarity.
In a European Union which really respects the principle of subsidiarity, we do not need a European political party.
The court here in Strasbourg can support us in connection with human rights.
In Brussels, we have close economic cooperation between the EU and the EEA in connection with a common market.
It is a rhetorical question, but who of us knows anything about the European political parties?
The European political parties do not represent democracy.
At this point, I doubt - judging by the number of mouths that are watering here - that we have the majority that is required to reject this motion, to reject this institutionalisation of bureaucracy, which is becoming more and more pervasive within Parliament.
I think that the public should be made aware of this: what is being proposed to us today is not a Europe of the citizens but a Europe of the taxpayers, whom we are once again going to bleed dry in order to allow bureaucracy to proliferate in the future.
I expressed this by calling Article 308 a valuable operational procedure.
After this we will accept our responsibilities - and I repeat this for the second time - and we shall also accept our responsibilities within the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference, at which I promise to fight for the proposal that the Commission will be producing in the next few weeks, as strenuously as you know I can.
The subject you have raised, Mrs Maes, is an extremely sensitive one, and this issue is clearly open to various interpretations.
Ultimately, we must recognise the true nature of political debate in Europe and give this debate a sounder structure and a clear and transparent legal basis.
Considering the matter from this point of view, these changes would represent progress for the general public but also, Mr Dupuis, for the taxpayers, who are generally the same people.
I should like to add or repeat that these European political parties, as they are organised today, on an unsteady foundation, and as they will be organised tomorrow, on a clear and legally sound basis, if we succeed, will not replace the national political parties, they will complement them and will give them a European dimension.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
This development complements NATO, which will continue to remain responsible for collective security in Europe.
We must realise that Amsterdam transferred the Petersberg tasks of the WEU to the European Union and that, as a result, practically all areas of the Western European Union now come under the responsibility of the European Union.
I think this Intergovernmental Conference should consider whether Article 5 can be adopted in the form of a protocol to the EU Treaty and whether we should leave it to each Member State to take a sovereign decision as to whether or not it subscribes to this protocol.
The European Parliament will advocate bringing the Community position, the Community part to the fore.
We clearly must coordinate these two dimensions and particularly the military and non-military crisis management actions which the EU may decide to undertake.
I must point out that the interim bodies started work in March 2000 and that the Committee for Civilian Crisis Management was formally created during the Portuguese Presidency.
As will be evident from the Presidency' s report to the Feira European Council, an effort is being made to simultaneously develop the military and non-military crisis management capabilities.
This represents a major effort by the Member States to ensure sustained and uniform development of these two dimensions which are fundamental for security and stability.
In this context it must be said that the European Union will use, in order to develop the headline goal, the NATO defence planning, the planning and review process for countries which are not members of NATO and the defence capabilities initiative which is ongoing within the Alliance.
No increase in the Community budget is planned as these efforts are to be implemented by the Member States in a context of voluntary cooperation.
As for the involvement of the European Parliament in this process, it should be recalled that the Common European Security and Defence Policy is a component of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The EU intends to make its foreign dimension more effective and credible by developing military and civilian crisis management capabilities.
Under Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union, Parliament shall be consulted by the Presidency on the main aspects and the basic choices of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The need to avoid unnecessary duplication and to make the best use of all the existing assets and capabilities also underlies the development of the Common European Security and Defence Policy.
It is therefore natural that the Member States have from the beginning advocated the transfer of WEU powers which could prove useful in the process now under way in the European Union.
Portugal, which holds the Presidency of the WEU, has tried to advance the process for transferring powers from the WEU to the European Union.
The WEU has already taken the decision to allow the EU direct access to these structures.
The Common European Security and Defence Policy requires a close, intense and transparent relationship between the European Union and NATO.
The report to be presented to the Feira European Council includes a document establishing the principles and terms of this relationship during this interim period.
Four ad hoc working groups involving the EU and NATO will be created on the following issues: security, European military capability, development of processes for transferring NATO assets and capabilities to operations led by the European Union and, finally, definition of the permanent terms of the relationship between the European Union and NATO.
It must be stressed that the headline goal defined in Helsinki is open to participation by these countries which may therefore contribute to the European force.
According to the document agreed by the European Union which will form an integral part of the Feira European Council report, a single and inclusive structure will be created in which the fifteen Member States of the European Union and the fifteen third countries will participate.
In view of the fundamental role of the six European allies who are not members of the European Union and also bearing in mind that NATO may provide assets and capabilities for operations led by the EU, meetings will take place within this single structure between the Fifteen and these six countries to discuss issues involving the development of the European military capability.
The French Presidency will be responsible for presenting the Nice European Council with proposals on the terms for the consultation and participation of these countries.
Finally, in Helsinki the Portuguese Presidency was given the task of presenting the Feira European Council with an indication of whether or not the Treaty of Amsterdam needs to be revised.
The Commission has actively contributed to non-military crisis management since long before the Cologne and Helsinki Summits.
We need to improve our capacity for rapid and targeted action.
The creation of additional instruments, or the mobilisation of additional funding, does not, in my judgement, stand in the centre of current deliberations; nor are far-reaching Treaty changes required.
I hope that we will have the support of Parliament in working through it.
The Commission recently tabled a proposal for the creation of a rapid reaction facility.
We had de Gasperi.
We had Fouchet.
The decision taken at Maastricht, the decision taken at Amsterdam, the decision taken at Helsinki - they all mark a signal move forward, a recognition that we have not done enough in the past to ensure that Europe's voice is heard adequately around the world and that Europe's capacities to prevent and manage crises are brought to bear with sufficient competence and vigour.
This time we have to ensure that a common foreign and security policy ensures that Europe discharges its responsibilities at the level which events require, at the level which our citizens now in my judgement demand.
We in the Commission want to play our full part in ensuring that this time a common foreign and security policy is a resounding success.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, I should like to welcome, as my colleague, Elmar Brok has just done, the progress that has been made in European defence and political unity.
Europe awoke when the crisis in Kosovo arose.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as you can see, the European Parliament takes a very close interest in this new policy, which will become the common European security and defence policy, and we will have occasion to discuss it often in the future.
I am now speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, but in more general terms, I think I can say that the great majority of the European Parliament, which does not mean unanimously, approves, as I do, of the new impetus that the Cologne and Helsinki Summits have given to this policy since the Treaty of Amsterdam.
That being the case, the European Parliament must draw a clear distinction between civilian and military crisis management.
The former is obviously the approach we favour.
By the same token, how can we guarantee effective coordination, which is a continual problem, between the Council, the Council' s High Representative, the Commission, and in some cases, Member States, NGOs etc?
There is still much to be done to ensure that the European Union has adequate military resources, which is why we are putting these questions to you.
With regard to our relations with NATO, I paid great attention to what you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
Finally, Mr President, I shall in turn stress a matter to which the European Parliament understandably attaches great importance: the parliamentary dimension of security and defence policy.
Even if the executive must always have overall responsibility for this matter, we must stress the role of parliaments, both national parliaments and the European Parliament.
Mr President, the decisions made at the Helsinki European Council on the development of a common security and defence policy are open to interpretation.
Under the treaties, the aim of a common foreign and security policy for the Union is to safeguard its independence and integrity, as well as strengthen its security in all its forms.
In the opinion of the non-aligned Member States, only the creation of a system for crisis management has been decided upon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is useful to remind ourselves and to realise that we are in the first round of many of a debate on European security.
This is a good example of how, also in future, the Union will be able to use its nearly unlimited options in the field of non-military crisis management.
Instead, scenarios such as the war in Kosovo or imaginary crises in the future, Islamic fundamentalism or, as in the German defence guidelines, even possible ecological threats are wheeled out in order to justify huge military spending.
Let me pick up on just one issue, an issue which figured at the centre of all the positions taken here today: the war in Kosovo.
I think that the Council, the Commission and we ourselves are drawing the wrong conclusions in principle from a war which was wrong in principle.
First, the violation of international law, as practised by NATO, and which, for the rest, still forms part of the official NATO military strategy, should not shape future security policy.
My group takes an opposing view in principle to the present prevalent European security policy on at least three counts.
Germany has earmarked DM 17.5 million for civil conflict management projects this year.
Mr President, we take a different approach to the important point raised by our colleague, Mr Brok' s question to the Council.
This is an important issue, because, following the very serious crises that have struck the Balkans, the European Council, especially in its Cologne and Helsinki declarations of June and December 1999 and the Presidency, particularly in the two reports it has drawn up on the Union' s military and civilian resources for dealing with crisis situations, have demonstrated their intention to see the Union become more closely involved in the management of crises that threaten European security, interests and values.
A number of European Union Member States, but also non-members, may perceive such threats as common threats.
It would be useful to know whether the Council feels that the upturn in growth in Europe is such as to favour this essential turnaround and how the Council intends to promote it.
Mr President, with regard to defence, the Council which is to be held in Feira on 19 and 20 June will work on the basis of the conclusions of the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Fifteen Member States in the Azores and on the conclusions of the meeting of the Defence Ministers of the WEU Member States.
NATO, which was created in 1949 to defend Western Europe against Soviet imperialism, ought to have disappeared at the same time as the Soviet Union did, in 1991.
The 50 000 soldiers of Eurocorps have been under NATO command since 1993, and above all, whilst NATO had done nothing for the people of Berlin, Hungary, Czechoslovakia or Poland, it engaged in a brutal and massive intervention specifically to destroy Serbia' s civil infrastructures, yet without thereby solving the problems of Kosovo.
The required "firm political commitment on the part of all Member States" of Paragraph 19 of the resolution is lacking.
Mr President, we must recognise that the progress that has been made in recent months in the field of security and defence policy originated from the informal Council of Defence Ministers in Sintra, which should be included on the list of successes of the Portuguese Presidency.
One of the many and complex problems involved in the development of this policy, which necessarily requires greater involvement by Finance Ministers and Defence Ministers, is the role and influence of the institutions.
Furthermore, the appropriate measures should be taken for the Parliament to exercise control over the security and defence policy and so that it is constantly and adequately informed of its tasks and of the provisional bodies which currently work in the service of the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
What I have just said with regard to Parliament, Mr President, is equally valid for the Commission.
The balance between the institutions should not be altered in the case of such an important question.
Furthermore, Mr President, this European Union project is not just a matter of a political, economic and military union.
We in the European Union do not simply define ourselves as consumers in a big market place, but as citizens of the Union.
The citizens of the Union, represented by Parliament, increasingly want to be involved in this area which concerns them and affects them directly, namely the common security and defence policy.
Central to this was Robert Schuman' s speech of 9 May 1950.
Schuman began his speech with these words: 'World peace cannot be preserved without constructive efforts to combat impending dangers' .
This far-sighted approach permeates the Socialist Group' s vision of Europe' s foreign and security policy and is also a persistent theme in Mrs Lalumière' s report on the eve of Feira, a report which our Group supports wholeheartedly.
We share the same planet and the same fate.
In today' s globalised world following the end of the cold war, poverty and exclusion stand out as the main enemies of peace and democracy.
The headline goals which have been established are important and must be implemented in full, without delay and without exception.
At the same time, we must, however, oppose those who wish to exaggerate our military capacity and role.
We should accept increased responsibility for security on our own continent, but we should not take the place of NATO or create an embryonic form of permanent and independent European defence.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the priorities for Feira, the European Union must strengthen the civil conflict prevention dimension of its policy.
That means, as far as weighting instruments is concerned, that the financial and material focus must be on an effective conflict prevention policy.
Mr President, a European Union which cannot play a clearly defined role in terms of security and defence creates uncertainty on the world stage.
The Christian Democrats hope that the transfer of tasks and competencies from the Western European Union to the European Union can contribute to this clarity.
Mr President, we have emphasised the civil and military aspects of this policy in our resolutions.
This is why it is essential that this European Parliament, in which we discuss all kinds of civil affairs with each other all the time, be the place where the military components form part of a wider context in parliamentary supervision too.
I also have to say that the nature of the tasks which we have in mind, the Petersberg tasks, is such that here is the ideal place where they can be dealt with.
We want to cooperate with North America in these matters too, but also - and particularly - with sound backing from the Council.
The war in and about Kosovo has made Europeans realise three important things.
Secondly, we have learned that we are unable to intervene independently on our own continent and in our own neighbourhood, even in the case of very limited military action.
The European Parliament should also gain greater influence on military action through the budget and proper accountability through the Council.
If the Union only deals with civil and police matters whilst the governments' exclusive remit is military aspects, then the unity of European action is in danger of becoming the first casualty in crisis situations.
I am not only thinking of Kosovo, which has been so important to us as an eye-opener.
Unfortunately, this philosophy, as can be seen from the debate, prevails not only in the Council and the Commission, but also in the European Parliament which, instead of expressing the feelings and interests of the citizens, is about to ratify an extremely dangerous policy for Europe and mankind as a whole.
I thank him particularly for his undertaking to examine my proposal for a European public security force, because there are several organisations across Europe which could offer experience, not least the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Northern Ireland.
The aim is to develop our own capacity in order to be able to implement the so-called Petersberg tasks.
Autonomy should certainly not culminate in a political exchange between the common European security and defence policy and the national missile defence, as was suggested recently by an American senator during the NATO Assembly in Budapest.
The second point is about democratic control.
In my own country the vast majority of people are against the militarisation of Europe, especially a Europe that will have nuclear weapons at its disposal, a Europe where the arms industries are exporting arms to places around the world where there are mass and gross abuses of human rights.
We in the neutral countries are being told that collective defence is not going to be part of it, but of course when we get in so far then there will be no going out.
Finally, I was quite amazed to hear Mr Newton Dunn cite the RUC as a good example of policing.
If you look at the human rights organisations around the world that have amassed damning reports on that organisation, it is incredible to put it up as an example.
I am sure there are good examples, but the RUC is not one of them.
It is important for decisions on military intervention to remain the responsibility of national parliaments.
This European security and defence policy must be subject to parliamentary monitoring in this House.
The President-in-Office has said that transparency and clarity are needed.
I also wish to congratulate the Council on being able to establish at the last summit the principle of the headline goals.
The Western European Union Armaments Group, for example, moves very slowly on the basis of consensus.
We clearly need more urgency in this area and we need a single, coherent framework within which the defence industry can cooperate.
The Commission has a crucial role in this.
This Commission has been completely silent on this issue.
We have to ensure that the single market applies to defence industries as far as possible, and that Article 296 only applies in those areas specified in the Treaty.
I would urge Commissioner Patten to follow in the footsteps of Commissioners Bangemann and van den Broek to drive forward the Commission's responsibility in delivering an effective and competitive European armaments industry in order to back up the measures we are taking in the political field.
Mr President, considerable progress has been made towards the establishment of a common European security and defence policy.
If Member States are indeed serious about establishing a real security and defence policy then they must put their money where their mouth is.
These realities must temper our discussions at Feira and elsewhere as must also the need to keep in mind the status and role of the United Nations.
The experience of Kosovo has underlined the need for such an initiative and I welcome the fact that it may happen at Feira.
There is also the question of developing a system of regional responsibility in Europe which does not fly in the face of the United Nations system, as has been maintained time and again, but which, on the contrary, can be incorporated into the United Nations system and into the ideas of the United Nations.
Mr President, we are regularly reassured that the measures being put in place under the common European security and defence policy are intended to strengthen NATO.
The real desire is to create something separate from NATO.
The amendments we have put forward to the Lalumière resolution are intended to stress the importance of the continued commitment of our North American allies to the security of Europe as a foremost priority, to make it clear that the European Union should only opt to act militarily in agreement with the alliance and when NATO as a whole has chosen not to be engaged, to insist that any rapid reaction force should also be assigned to NATO and in any case should not impact adversely on the capacity of NATO allies to meet their alliance obligations.
We want EU decisions relating to the use of military assets, including decisions taken on the basis of a common strategy or when implementing a joint action, to be taken unanimously.
The Royal Ulster Constabulary is a fine force with a proud record in fighting terrorism but this is not at all relevant to this particular debate.
One might even say that Europe has entrusted the task of a military presence to the NATO leadership and, at the same time, relaxed its efforts over the years, to the point at which it is now more or less incapable of properly honouring its obligations within NATO.
If someone, be it a person, a country or a group of countries, considers that it has no initiative to act, it loses interest, neglects its duties or goes through the motions of performing its duties, but there is no substance to them and they are performed perfunctorily.
Perhaps the most important outcome of the resolutions of the Cologne, Helsinki and Lisbon summits is precisely the fact that they have restored Europe' s sense of initiative, giving it the motivation needed in order to accept responsibility, make an effort and honour its obligations.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed resolution on a common European security and defence policy is an important signal from the European Parliament in the run-up to the Feira Summit, a signal which points in two directions.
Secondly, a signal to take account of and strengthen the role of the European Parliament in fashioning a common European security and defence policy.
The specific undertaking to create a European strike force no more than 60 000 strong in order to complete the Petersberg tasks calls for solidarity between all the Member States of the European Union.
The idea of attaching Article 5 in an additional protocol to a revised Treaty, to which the individual Member States may accede if necessary, therefore represents a reasonable attempt to find a solution.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, honourable members, it is quite right to make crisis management the main objective of European foreign and defence policy.
Not only has she made specific proposals, she has also highlighted the need to find a modus operandi and a modus vivendi for all the means proposed in order to implement European foreign policy.
Having said this, may I suggest, Minister, that we act with the greatest caution when it comes to questions such as the integration of the Western European Union or relations with ÍÁÔÏ.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a year has gone by since the war in Kosovo, and intensive reconstruction work has begun.
Mr President, Secretary of State, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order for the European construction process to maintain its vitality, which is a prerequisite for its survival, each point of arrival must also form a point of departure.
Although this was clearly not our desire, the fall of the Berlin wall has obviously not helped with security and defence in Europe.
We must therefore have effective mechanisms for managing crises using non-military means, for developing and ensuring the compatibility of the military capabilities of the Member States, for mobilising adequate financial resources in the national and Community budgets and for establishing effective decision-making structures.
The commitment of the Member States is essential.
This report is the result of our commitment to carry out in full the mandate established in Helsinki.
Regardless of certain differences which are evident here in terms of security and defence cultures, and more so in the defence culture than in the security culture, we believe that we all agree on the need for the European Union to rapidly acquire a crisis management capability at either military or non-military level.
As for the EU-NATO link, all the concerns expressed about how the creation of a common European security and defence policy may reflect negatively on the relationship with NATO are unfounded.
On the contrary, we believe that this mechanism will allow us to independently reinforce a particular dimension without creating any type of barrier in our relationship with NATO.
Moreover, the mechanisms which we are implementing to link Member States who are in NATO with those who are not and, at the same time, the formulas which we are using to link the European Union in terms of security and defence with NATO partners outside the EU seem to have found the right balance.
Civilian crisis management has been one of the aspects highlighted by the Portuguese Presidency, particularly bearing in mind the concerns felt within the Council and also expressed in this House about this dimension.
Firstly, there was some discussion about the sort of institutional arrangements that we need to make, not least in the Commission, to cope with the responsibilities of adequately implementing a common foreign and security policy and, in particular, to ensure that we can play our own role in the non-military aspects of conflict prevention and crisis management.
We need our own crisis units in the Commission, but we should keep that small.
We have made proposals about asymmetric trade measures for the Balkans, which are now being considered by the Council and, in due course, will be considered by Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
I extend a warm welcome to the Australian delegation, which is here to attend the 24th European Parliament/Australia Interparliamentary meeting, taking place here in Strasbourg on 14 and 15 June.
We now look forward to the strengthening of our cooperation with Australia.
I wish you all a successful and an enjoyable stay here in Strasbourg.
These amendments have been deemed to be inadmissible.
On the other hand, all the other amendments have been deemed to be acceptable, and indeed has always been the case. (Parliament adopted the calendar of part-sessions as amended) Simplified procedure - without report Initiative of the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg with a view to the adoption of a Council decision establishing a procedure for amending Articles 40(4) and (5), 41(7) and 65(2) of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders (7217/00 - C5-0216/2000 - 2000/0803(CNS)) (Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs) (Parliament approved the initiative) Proposal for a Council decision modifying Decision 1999/311/EC of 29 April 1999 adopting the third phase of the trans-European cooperation scheme for higher education (TEMPUS III) (2000-2006) (COM(2000)0184 - C5-0231/2000 - 2000/0074(CNS)) (Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport) (Parliament approved the Commission proposal) Recommendation for 2nd reading (A5-0153/2000) by Mr Beysen on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on the European Parliament legislative resolution on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3330/91 on the statistics relating to the trading of goods between Member States, with specific reference to a simplified application of the nomenclature of products (14100/1/1999 C5­0134/2000 - 1997/0162(COD)) (The President approved the common position) Report (A5-0156/2000) by Mr Maaten, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products (COM(1999) 594 - C5­0016/2000 - 1999/0244(COD)) Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to request that the vote on Maaten report be postponed until July.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is surely an extremely important report on what is without doubt a serious issue.
I know that the tobacco industry lobby is most anxious to prevent this directive and I think that this request is yet another ploy to prevent a vote, which is clearly a matter of urgency, from taking place.
If we postpone our vote, the tobacco industry will gain even more time, since the Council will then not be able to state its position until the end of June.
It is true that many amendments have been tabled and also that in future we will have to make efforts to improve our work so that fewer amendments are tabled in plenary.
on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directives 69/169/EEC and 92/12/EEC as regards temporary quantitative restrictions on beer imports into Finland (COM(2000) 76 - C5-0137/2000 - 2000/0038 (CNS)) II.
By the same token, and out of respect for the rule of law, I voted against the amendments which seek to cancel the additional part-sessions in Brussels.
Mr President, I voted not to work on Fridays in Strasbourg although I am totally in favour of our meeting here.
I would like to make the following point: we put in a lot of time but we work inefficiently and we produce relatively little compared with, for example, the Italian Parliament, which meets less often - it never votes on a Monday and does not meet on Fridays at all - yet produces at least 500 laws every year.
This time, they have tried to achieve their ends in a more subtle way, by cutting the duration of each ordinary part-session, without reducing their number.
In fact, in its Judgement of 1 October 1997, the Court of Justice made it quite clear that the Edinburgh Council Decision of 12 December 1992, which was taken to enforce Article 216 of the Treaty, and was furthermore elevated to the rank of protocol by the Treaty of Amsterdam, was as valid as the Treaty and was therefore binding on the European Parliament.
I should like to take this opportunity to remind you that, as I understand it, setting additional part-sessions in Brussels a year in advance is not a practice that is in accordance with the treaty either.
The 1997 judgement states that "additional plenary part-sessions can only be set for another working location if the Parliament holds the twelve ordinary part-sessions in Strasbourg, which is the seat of the institution" .
I conclude from this that the European Parliament does not have the right to set additional part-sessions more than a year in advance, as it currently does.
Parliament would need to know if the ordinary part-sessions in Strasbourg have been sufficient or insufficient to deal with matters pending.
I greatly hope that the French Government will again refer the matter to the Court of Justice, as it did in 1995.
Such a decision would not only threaten the institutional balance that has nonetheless been accepted by all Member States, but, even more seriously, it would threaten the 'certain concept of Europe' that Strasbourg symbolises: that of a political Europe that is reconciled and peaceful.
For who can deny that the creation of a single capital for a federal Europe, which will have more than 500 million inhabitants in 10 years' time, would be an aberration?
The solution to this problem would be to concentrate Parliament's work at only one place.
The vast majority of Members of the European Parliament who voted for the removal of the Friday sitting are pursuing a strategy whose aims are crystal clear: they wish to move more plenary sittings to Brussels.
Beysen recommendation (A5-0153/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Beyson report, but this is a classic example of what I was referring to in the vote on abolishing Friday sittings.
At the same time, however, we feel sure that Article 95 of the Treaty, covering the harmonisation of rules for the internal market, on which this draft is based, is an improper legal basis.
Article 152 of the Treaty, which refers to public health, authorises the Community to encourage cooperation between Member States, but under no circumstances to adopt binding harmonisation measures, as such, as these are expressly rules out by paragraph 3(c).
In such circumstances, we are well aware that the Commission, as is often the case, is currently using a praiseworthy cause - in this case, the anti-smoking campaign - in order to award itself new competencies, in spite of the wording of the Treaties and with no thought for subsidiarity.
Mr President, I am totally in favour of this report safeguarding citizens' health, the health of both active and passive smokers.
All cigarettes are harmful.
If we choose tight protection for our citizens we should not allow the exporting of more dangerous products which profit from the addiction of others.
In voting in favour of this report, despite its shortcomings and particularly despite the hypocrisy of Member States in their actions to limit smoking, we feel that we are making a stand, within the options available to us, against the right of tobacco cartels to poison the population for the sake of private profit.
The measures that are adopted should furthermore impose the same restrictions, at least on European tobacco companies, when they manufacture their products under licence, or sell their poison, in the countries of Eastern Europe, in Africa or elsewhere.
The behaviour of tobacco companies, which runs completely counter to the interests of society as a whole, mirrors the behaviour of all the large oil, asbestos, arms and agrifood companies, which are prepared to run the risk of harming the population or the environment in order to make a little more profit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ban on any form of television advertising for cigarettes and other tobacco products in Directive 89/552 and the more stringent labelling requirements for tobacco products introduced in this directive illustrate the ambivalent attitude of the European Union towards tobacco.
The European Union must set itself the task of pursuing policies which our citizens can understand.
If this contradiction cannot be resolved at Community level, then the Union must fight to help attain a high level of health protection by supporting a reduction in tobacco cultivation at international level.
Mr President, I have voted decidedly in favour of the amended proposal and of the legislative resolution with regard to the new tobacco directive.
Mr President, personally, I have never smoked and I am well aware of the dangers of smoking for the health of both the individual and of the public at large.
A legislator can prohibit or authorise, but should not make sermons in legislative texts, which is what we do here all the time.
More than half a million people died as a result of tobacco addiction in the EU in 1990.
The Greens want to ban many of the more than 600 additives in cigarettes.
If we take the example of the Community's approach to food safety legislation, whereby legislation is based on the principle that consumers have the right to know what they are consuming, then the same principle must apply to tobacco products: smokers should have the right to know exactly what they are smoking and what the effects are.
We therefore voted in favour of maintaining direct aid to income in the tobacco production sector within the European Union, thereby guaranteeing greater compliance with Community preference, in order to reduce the share of American multinationals in the tobacco consumption market and to protect the interests of Portuguese farmers, without public health being endangered.
That is why I tabled an amendment with my colleagues to do the monitoring of health effects by the year 2002 instead of 2005 which was the initial proposal from the Commission.
This proposal to change the timetable is also very important from the public health point of view.
I still think that even if the scientific data come as late as the year 2004, this information will be very important for us Members of the European Parliament, when we create future legislation in the field of tobacco products. - (DE) I was the rapporteur in this House for the common organisation of the raw tobacco market over 30 years ago.
Things are as they are and we shall have to live with them, because tobacco farmers cannot reasonably be expected to be left standing out in the rain after 30 years' common organisation of the raw tobacco market.
I supported Amendment No 75 on banning the sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 16.
On the basis of ethical considerations, too, I feel it is reasonable to ban exports of products that we consider to be harmful to our own citizens to countries outside the Union.
I voted in the strongest possible terms against Amendment No 54.
Europe has other assets and other creative ways of finding export markets.
During yesterday' s debate, some Members raised the point that smoking kills more people than tuberculosis, Aids or other infectious diseases.
Nobody questions the validity of its aims: smoking kills 500 000 people per year in the European Union alone.
Half of all long-term smokers will eventually be killed by tobacco and of these, half will die during middle age losing 20 to 25 years of life.
This legislation will spell out the dangers of smoking and save thousands of lives. - (DE) I voted against an export ban on stronger cigarettes for the following reasons: The Commission has proposed banning exports of cigarettes with yields of over 10 milligrammes of tar, 1 milligramme of nicotine and 10 milligrammes of carbon dioxide to third countries.
Berenguer Fuster report (A5-0142/2000) Mr President, I voted for this report on the exchange on information regarding, specifically, financial activities.
I feel that this directive should be extended to include this type of inspection.
I remember when, at the age of about 21, I worked as part of the crew of a ship which travelled between New York and the Bahamas: whenever I left the ship and ventured into New York City I was allowed to take two bottles of whisky with me, which, as I boarded the bus, would regularly be bought from me at three times the price, for whisky was much more expensive in New York.
Therefore, this trade between one State and another which was caused by different levels of duties was only natural.
If we want to avoid it, we must remove all the excise duties in the European Union.
According to that proposal, Finland would reserve the right to abolish the more stringent restrictions on imports from EU countries in stages by the end of 2003.
Imports of beer from non-member countries such as Russia and Estonia would be limited to six litres up to the year 2006.
Under the Treaty of Amsterdam, Internal Market policy also has to take into account considerations of public health and environmental protection.
Finland is in that way being granted the right to limit beer imports from third countries to six litres per traveller per day up until 1 January 2006.
The Commission might have shown similar insight in its treatment of the Swedish derogations from 1994 concerning private imports of alcohol into Sweden.
Vidal-Quadras Roca report (A5-0159/2000) Mr President, I have to say that I was very surprised to find myself voting for this report, for it represents, perhaps, the surrender of the European Union to one of the original Communities out of which it grew, namely Euratom: the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Let us remember that the Commission proposed that it would finance this operation by using, at the end of each year, unspent appropriations from heading 3.
This solution may be satisfactory insofar as it places financing outside the framework programmes for research, a point stressed by the European Parliament, but it nevertheless falls short of what is required.
On the other hand, the most suitable solution is the one that seeks to have this programme financed by a self-contained budget line.
Discussions were also held on reinforcing the role of non-governmental organisations in conducting all the policies and as privileged partners of the State in ensuring that the Platform is implemented.
The basic problems concerned what the European Union has already included in Article 13 of the EC Treaty and the difficulty which some countries had in accepting the issue of sexual rights and its inherent diversity and the issue of sexual orientation.
As some of you will know, she was unavoidably delayed by commitments which she had undertaken before the timing of this debate.
As honourable Members will also know, she is coming to the committee next week in order to have a full exchange with Members, many of whom will, of course, have shared in the success achieved last week.
I wish to begin, on behalf of the Commission, by thanking the Portuguese presidency for coordinating the Member States' positions so effectively and for handling the negotiations with other delegations so proficiently under what I understand were occasionally extremely difficult conditions.
The European Union can be proud that it was the most progressive regional group represented at New York.
In a number of areas the outcome document goes far beyond what was achieved five years ago at Beijing - a conference which I remember observing from slightly closer than would have been the case today.
We managed that without having to concede any watering down of the Beijing Platform in other areas.
The document reaffirms women's rights as human rights.
It urges all UN members to sign the CEDAW optional protocol and calls for a strong awareness of gender issues in the workings of the International Criminal Court.
It recognises that discrimination against women is often compounded by discrimination on other grounds.
While we did not obtain specific references to all the grounds listed in the EC Treaty, the presidency made the European Union position clear in a final statement before the General Assembly.
It seems to me, with some responsibilities in this field, inconceivable to have a sustainable model of economic development which does not have gender issues at its heart.
The document reaffirms the prime importance of education as a means of empowering girls and women.
Lastly, we welcome the reference to men's role in bringing about greater gender equality for they clearly have a considerable responsibility as well.
The effort is of course led by my colleague, Commissioner Diamantopoulou, but it is an endeavour in which all of us as Commissioners wish to be fully involved.
There is also the problem of trafficking in women, rape of women during armed conflicts, etc.
Firstly, as a European Union, we should remain the driving force behind the Member States.
But it is not only vis-à-vis our own Member States that we have a role to play, we also have a responsibility towards the candidate countries, those which we as MEPs have brought together in New York.
And fruitful collaboration with non-governmental organisations also strengthened the position of the European Union.
The fight against violence was put on every country' s agenda.
I think the resolutions of Parliament and our progress in the European Union, Parliament' s progress, are now accessible to every country.
We came to the clear conclusion with our partners from associated countries that we need to work together more closely in order to promote women' s rights.
We want to have a parliamentarians' conference in two years to review Beijing.
It is in our interest to fight for this.
Women' s human rights, the trade in women, violence against women, women' s economic rights, the status of civil society: we may be pleased about the progress that has been made in all these issues.
It was especially gratifying for me that all the Member States and almost all the candidate countries were talking together under Portugal' s leadership.
I believe this conference has given hope to all those millions of women who are without fundamental human rights; and we need a further follow-up conference in five years' time.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Presidency.
I should also like to thank Mrs Smet.
Mr President, I would like to begin my speech by turning to the benches of this Parliament and urging certain Members to feel concerned at the lack of attention that our male colleagues pay to women' s rights in this Chamber, in which there are 30 women for 5 men.
I wonder if, bearing this figure in mind, we really had the right to lecture people in New York and to advocate women' s rights in such a vigorous way.
After this introduction, with which I am sure almost everyone will agree, I shall say a few things that certain Members present will be less pleased to hear.
For a Union delegation to experience only two problems is quite reasonable, but they are crucial ones.
The first concerns the tendency of delegations to speak on behalf of our Parliament.
In fact, the legislative body can express its will only through its votes and no delegate from our Assembly has the right to speak on its behalf: they are only entitled to speak on their own behalf and they are only delegates from the point of view of protocol.
This threat also involved insults being made.
Education is still the most effective instrument for ensuring that women can freely exercise their rights and for allowing greater access to positions of responsibility, both in the workplace and in public life.
Knowledge of new technologies has been considered to be of great importance in terms of allowing full participation in the society of the future.
Women' s health is one of the priorities of the meeting' s final document, with special mention of the spread of Aids, especially in certain areas of the planet, which affects women in a particular way and requires special measures for prevention and treatment.
Globalisation has generated new problems which particularly affect women, such as trafficking in human beings, prostitution and drug-trafficking, which should be combated so that women may live a dignified and free life in conditions of equality.
All these objectives must be achieved in the next few years and, in order to ensure they are complied with, we are requesting a new meeting within the next five years.
The fifth programme for equality promoted by the European Commission must serve to promote the position of women, to eliminate the remaining inequalities, integrating gender policies into all Community programmes.
This meeting has therefore been of enormous importance in terms of making progress in the situation of women in all parts of the world.
The European Union' s position, given that it has a higher level of development and, therefore, better conditions for women, must not allow us to forget the situation of women in other areas, where daily hardships are combined with malnutrition, extreme poverty and a complete lack of respect for their fundamental rights.
A small group of Catholic and Islamic fundamentalist countries clearly intended to undermine the progress achieved by women from around the world in Beijing five years ago.
These issues united certain Islamic and Catholic countries ranging all the way from the Sudan, Iran and Libya to the Vatican, Nicaragua and Poland, which were prime movers in the fight against these rights.
On the issues of rape within marriage, right of possession and right of inheritance, together with the right to asylum on the grounds of gender-based persecution, the wordings have been strengthened.
It is especially important that all candidate States, including Poland, undertake to abide by the EU' s policy on women' s rights.
I welcome the positive contribution made by Europe to forging closer relationships with other countries and the NGOs.
Mr President, the very positive assessment that we are making today of the meeting in New York, should not allow us to forget that there have been serious deficiencies and great hypocrisy, even within the European Union, which make me want to double my efforts from now on.
It has been demonstrated that, compared to men doing the same work, women receive 50 or up to 80 per cent less.
I wonder if the Portuguese Presidency, before the end of its mandate, could make a recommendation in this respect.
Mr President, the European Parliament' s delegation played a magnificent role with regard to the candidate countries.
You were not in New York, but I was.
It has already been said many times: the work carried out by the UN and in New York has demonstrated clearly that some progress has been made since Beijing.
The need has become clear for governments to include a gender aspect in all government policies, from employment to development, from social policies to the fight against violence.
Therefore, we need to focus on clear policies which fight the social exclusion of women and consolidate their role as active protagonists of political change and economic development.
Actual equality and freedom for women is only possible if all options are open to them and if the traditional family image is not held up to them as the only true one.
The fight goes on.
The European Union and Member State representatives showed great commitment during the Conference to the issue of sexual self-determination for women and the non-discrimination principle pursuant to Article 13.
The fact that this did not end up in the final document should not be a reflection on them.
Article 13 offers the opportunity to do so and the Beijing +5 Conference issued an instruction to this effect.
Many friends and women who are colleagues in this Parliament have just pointed out that my name appears as one of those who signed against women's rights.
President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will understand the pride I feel as a Portuguese national at the general acclaim for the Portuguese Presidency' s excellent work in promoting equal rights for women during its term and particularly with regard to the special UN conference on Beijing+5.
The conferences on violence against women, trafficking of women and reconciling family and professional life, together with the UN conference on Beijing+5, are clear examples of the Portuguese Presidency' s involvement in this area.
Finally, I must say that the European Union has a decisive role to play in this issue.
Europe must continue to be the driving force in developments in this area.
These must be achieved through cooperation, particularly with all like-minded countries, some of which, like Canada, are totally committed to the Presidency' s statement presented at the end of the special conference.
We must take advantage of all these opportunities.
These developments must also be achieved through benchmarking processes and by using the conclusions of the Lisbon Special Summit, which considered that in Europe there could be no economic development without social cohesion.
The debate is closed.
In fact, the Members of the European Parliament who were in New York as part of the European Union delegation, which comprised 15 people with observer status, were not allowed to speak because, in accordance with the UN' s procedure for extraordinary general assemblies, the Portuguese Presidency spoke on behalf of the European Union.
Even in the working parties, we were not allowed to take the floor, which was always given to the Portuguese Presidency.
In no instance did we speak in an official capacity, still less on behalf of this Parliament, although we did have some useful discussions with the Commission and the Council, with Members of the Parliaments of Member States and associated States, who allowed us to convey our views.
What were banned from these meetings were the positions that Parliament adopted under the Smet/Gröner report, and nothing else.
You may hear my explanation of vote tomorrow, Mr President, if you are going to cut me off.
Mrs Lulling, we have already heard speeches on the matter from the President of the Council and from the Commissioner on the subject of Poland.
Next, having heard what most of the speakers said on the issue of Poland, I am left in no doubt as to many of the things said in corridors and about the pressure of which I was informed, which was brought to bear on the representatives of Poland, a free State.
To conclude, I have heard many things said about the Vatican, but I can see that Jesuitical thinking, at least, has truly pervaded the European Parliament.
Mr Varaut, we cannot base our debates on corridor conversations.
Mr President, I should like first of all to welcome Moncef Marzouhi, spokesman for the National Council for Liberties in Tunisia, and Khemmaïs Ksila, from the Tunisian League for Human Rights, who are present in this Chamber.
What we wish to do is open people' s eyes to the hidden reality of Tunisia and to shoulder the responsibilities that are incumbent on the European Union, which is linked to that country by an association agreement that was signed five years ago now.
The hunger strike by the journalist Taoufik Ben Brik lifted a corner of the veil that conceals the lack of press freedom and the persecution of the men and women with alternative views to those of the regime of President Ben Ali.
No, Tunisia is not the smiling land trumpeted in the advertisements aimed at the 4 million European tourists who go there every year.
Tunisia also comprises militants fighting for human rights, women fighting for democracy, students who are spied on, harassed, and deprived of their telephones, passports, sometimes even of the freedom to travel within Tunisian territory.
Nourredine was tortured and kept in prison for more than 20 months simply for having organised a strike at the university.
Fortunately, in the last few weeks, several prisoners have been released and passports have been returned.
Let us therefore not weaken in our support for those who are taking action to condemn a police state.
I urge all honourable Members to vote in favour of the compromise resolution and I particularly urge the Council and the Commission to implement all the methods provided for in the agreement to ensure that democratic freedoms are respected, by involving civil society and preparing if needs be, for this agreement to be suspended.
The partnership proposed by the European Union, which is essentially based on free trade, is liable to exacerbate the harmful effects on the population to the extent that, as the parliamentary delegation for relations with the Maghreb noted, the association agreement is considered to be harmful by all Tunisian organisations, in both the public and the private sectors.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, Mr Da Costa, we are approaching this debate, as we approached the questions we put to the Council and the Commission, aware of the responsibility entailed in our partnership relationship with Tunisia, which we consider will be decisive for the success of the entire Euro-Mediterranean Partnership.
In fact, Tunisia is the first country with which the European Union signed an Association Agreement within the context of the 1995 Barcelona Process.
However, in all honesty, I must also say that we are extremely concerned about the human rights situation in this country, particularly because we are convinced that, given the socio-economic and cultural context involved, there is the possibility for substantial improvement in the degree of freedom of the press, of speech, of association and of movement, conditions in prisons and the autonomous exercising of justice, so that the country can move towards full expression of the rule of law.
Not only Muslim fundamentalists, but all political opponents are systematically silenced.
Tunisia has concluded an association agreement with the European Union which contains a clear human rights clause.
The fact that democracy and the rule of law form an essential integral part of our association with Tunisia means, quite simply, that there can be no genuine association without democracy.
All those, like myself, who are working for a closer partnership, for a fair association and for lasting cooperation are faced with a difficult challenge: to put democratic flesh on the bones of an agreement signed with a regime which proclaims it in theory but declaims against it in practice.
It has taken us four years to hold this debate, four years, because the Socialist Group and the European People' s Group have blocked this debate for four years.
We concluded this model agreement with the country which seemed to have all the right assets to take the great leap forwards into democracy and the rule of law.
An extraordinary Association Council meeting must be held in order to put an end to this situation and finally to do something to help, to be Tunisians ourselves.
This is the message which this House must send to the Tunisian authorities, who must receive them in the positive light in which they are intended.
To this end, within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, the Commission, the Council and Parliament must not go into reverse with regard to the aid programmes which must be implemented within the framework of MEDA II.
Education and training in democratic principles are a fundamental element of sustaining a plural and democratic society.
It also concerns me that Commissioner Patten, who is present, is not sufficiently sensitive to the serious problems currently faced on the southern side of the Mediterranean, where Tunisia plays a very important role.
In any event - and this could serve as a summary of the debate - we cannot restrict our cooperation with third countries to purely trade and economic issues.
To this end, we also ask Tunisia, together with economic reforms, also to make progress with political reforms aimed at guaranteeing freedoms, but with the aid and cooperation which, of course, they receive and will continue to receive from us, at least from my Group.
We also believe that we need a common strategy in the Mediterranean, as the resolution states, and that, together with political, social and security aspects, special attention is paid to the cultural and human dimension.
This is why we need to strengthen the interparliamentary dialogue and the dialogue with the representatives of civil society.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we start to examine an issue like this we should remind ourselves of the European Union' s general attitude to its external relations.
The EU has a set of values and principles which it naturally tries to promote in its relations and which it tries to use in all areas of its associations with third countries.
Human rights issues are frequently discussed, as the speakers have noted, within the political dialogue which the Council is conducting with Tunisia within the Association Council and through the Heads of Mission of the Member States in Tunis who have regular meetings with the relevant Tunisian government officials in this area.
However, the Council prefers to use the opportunities for influencing the Tunisian authorities more discreetly, and perhaps more effectively, by maintaining constructive pressure on them through political dialogue and various meetings at different levels.
We cannot ignore, and it would be politically incorrect to so do, the gestures of openness already made by Tunisia, particularly in freeing 600 political prisoners, returning passports to certain members of the opposition and being clearly willing to reduce tensions in the case of the journalist, Taouffik Ben Brick, and accepting his specific claims.
Finally, in the Barcelona Declaration, Tunisia, like the other Mediterranean partner countries, signed up to certain principles involving respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Within the EU-Mediterranean framework and in reinforcing this framework as we are trying to do at the moment in close cooperation with the European Commission, we are also insisting on the importance of actively promoting the rule of law and the good management of public affairs which constitutes a key area in the dialogue between the two sides of the Mediterranean.
To conclude, I must assure you that the Council remains committed to promoting and reinforcing in Tunisia, as in other countries with which the EU maintains relations, respect for human rights, democratic principles and fundamental freedoms, and to establishing a true democracy with an open civil society based on a rule of law.
I want to make it clear that the Commission shares the view of the UN Special Rapporteur who states in his report to the Commission on Human Rights that: "Tunisia still has a long way to go to take full advantage of its favourable economic context and adopt measures designed to strengthen the protection of human rights and, in particular, the right to freedom of opinion and expression".
This is best done by looking at the three main instruments provided by the association agreement linking the European Union to Tunisia.
The first, to which my colleague referred, is political dialogue.
The Union has made a point of addressing the human rights issues in Tunisia in our many contacts with the Tunisian authorities.
The MEDA programme for democracy, on which Parliament has strong and positive views, has financed training, information and awareness-raising projects for NGOs and for public opinion in this field.
I will keep Parliament informed of developments in all these areas.
Others could have referred, for example, to the position of Tunisia on the sharia law.
It is best at the moment to proceed by dialogue but, as the House will understand, I do not equate dialogue with being supine.
That can be expressed firmly but courteously, as Parliament is doing today.
I just want to make it clear to the honourable Member that my commitment to making this policy a success is total.
It is not about creating hub economies which will make Europeans more prosperous: it is about working in partnership with Mediterranean countries in a partnership of values as well as trade, for the good of people to the south of the Mediterranean as well as those of us in Europe.
It is an enormously important part of Europe's endeavours over the next few years; as important, in some ways in projecting stability, as the whole process of enlargement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today' s debate enables us to stand back a little from the events in Tunisia of the last few weeks, and gain some perspective, particularly with regard to what has become known as the Ben Brik affair.
Tunisia is not being treated differently in any way.
This message of hope is founded, in part, upon the economic and social achievements that we have seen Tunisia make.
We must, however, also respect our commitments and our convictions, and I think that we would be doing Tunisians a favour by convincing them that our Parliament will always pay close attention to developments in the political situation and in civil society in their country, regardless of the good economic results that may have been achieved.
We must also persuade all of our Mediterranean partners that the commitments which they have given through taking part in the Barcelona process, specifically in the field of democracy and human rights, are not negotiable.
Finally, then, I would urge all Members to staunchly support the motion for a resolution that we have tabled today, which, I think, provides a balanced picture of Parliament' s views on the situation in Tunisia.
I believe that this is a useful question to ask, because only by understanding as accurately as possible what is happening in Tunisia and the challenges faced by that country, will we be able to find the tone of moderation and effectiveness which we must develop within the framework of cooperation.
It is a country which is, and has been, in the forefront of the association agreements and the agro-Mediterranean policy, and which has signed all the international conventions on human rights but where, nevertheless, time and time again problems arise relating to human rights which are exaggerated by sections of the European media.
I have spent fifteen years of my life without a passport or driving licence.
Only by ensuring that we are not in a situation where the Council is giving less priority to the Mediterranean, the Commission is hindering the implementation of programmes and the European Parliament is simply giving lectures, will we be able to find the tone and effectiveness of a policy which will help the future of Tunisia, in friendship and solidarity, towards a situation which brings both socio-economic growth and full democratisation.
Mr President, the Liberal group obviously endorses the text as tabled in full.
Paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution suggests that we will be entrusting our parliamentary delegation with the task of studying the situation.
Mr President, we have had to wait until the end of this parliamentary term for the truth to finally break out in the European Parliament.
The extremely severe legal restrictions on the right to strike have been made even harsher by the current leadership.
For a strike to be legal in Tunisia, the executive of the GUTW now has to give its approval.
Amongst these, we wish to mention Abdeljalil Bedoui, Ali Romdhane, Abdelmajid Sahraoui, Abdennour Maddahi, Hamed Bennjima, Noureddine Ounissa, Chaker Ben Hassine, and many others.
Ben Ali' s regime is exercising tight control over the whole world of labour.
The report by the National Council for Liberties in Tunisia estimates the number of policemen at 130 000 for a population of 9.5 million inhabitants.
Tunisia is actually the first country in the Maghreb to have signed an agreement with the European Union, and everyone recognises the progress that Tunisia has made in adapting its economy and its social fabric to the modernisation required by its links with the European Union and, unfortunately, by acceleration due to liberalisation through globalisation.
The present Tunisian regime does not tolerate any independent minds.
Mr President, I too should also like to express my great concern at the deteriorating human rights situation in Tunisia, a concern that is actively shared by all friends of that country.
This agreement contains a clause which calls for human rights to be respected, with suspensive effect and provides for political dialogue.
I certainly prefer political dialogue to unilateral sanctions, but, for this very reason, it is our duty to tell our partners that we are extremely concerned about the situation in Tunisia.
There has been a Ben Brik effect, which goes beyond his individual case and in three months, we have seen a whole civil society, which has demonstrated its determination to end the police state, suddenly gain a new dignity.
The first is to continue to refuse to accept the reality of the situation in line with the principle - quite common in this type of regime - of insisting that everything is fine until the final moment, with civil society having to suffer a new wave of repression and to face up to it with courage and determination.
The Tunisian government can also, however, choose the path of dialogue with civil society, in order to decrease tensions and to negotiate a way of pulling Tunisia out of this impasse and to lead it towards democracy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Tunisia must be seen in the wider context of the Mediterranean and the countries of North Africa with which the European Union is interested in maintaining dialogue regarding its peace and stability programmes.
It is therefore to be hoped that the EU-Tunisia Association Council will assume the responsibility of continuously monitoring the human rights situation in Tunisia by means of a joint action carried out together with the equivalent Tunisian representatives, and that it will create a joint system to monitor the issue which can only bring social improvements to the human rights situation in Tunisia.
Mr President, human rights are being infringed.
I saw that they are attempting to boost their economy in order to avoid further migration which could certainly affect relations between the Mediterranean countries and the countries which are now part of the same European Union as well.
No, we are talking, as Commissioner Patten has stressed again and again, about critical dialogue based on the agreements which we have signed with Tunisia.
We are talking about creating a common area of security, stability and peace, and that includes democracy, that includes respect for human rights, that includes freedom of the press.
Tunisia keeps saying that it is a question of economic and social development.
But this totally positive economic and social development in Tunisia is precisely the best basis for developing democracy still further and fighting the fight against extremism on democratic soil.
One last comment: we want to help Tunisia, about that there can be no doubt.
First, to say that, speaking for the Commission, we very much hope to bring forward proposals in the next few months - or weeks, if we can manage it - for revitalising the Barcelona process, a contribution to the debate about how that can be done five years after the original agreement.
Thank you, Commissioner Patten.
I have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 40(5).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Secondly, this agreement is positive because it brings with it economic, social, environmental and also geopolitical advantages for China and the world in general, especially the European Union.
What seems particularly positive to us is the opening up achieved in the field of financial services, telecommunications and insurance, which will offer opportunities, with no doubt whatsoever, to our economic operators, and also the gradual opening up of the energy markets in China which, apart from certain economic benefits, will lead to greater compliance with environmental standards in that country.
Therefore, we also fully support the Commission and Council initiative to relaunch the round, which was frustrated at the outset in Seattle, as soon as possible, turning it into a global round.
The other question is as follows: we have worked very well with the Commission and the Council throughout this process and we intend to continue to do so.
Furthermore, we will all gain in terms of democratic legitimacy with this important agreement, since, I do not need to stress, it is laid down that in important agreements Parliament has a decisive role to play.
Mr President, the conclusion on 19 May of the bilateral agreement on access to the market in goods and services between the European Union and the People' s Republic of China constituted, as we must all recognise, an important step in the process of China' s accession to the World Trade Organisation which, incidentally, has now been operating for 14 years.
Mr Westendorp y Cabeza mentioned the size of the Chinese population and market and the importance which this will have in terms of the internal balance of the WTO.
Only at the end of this process will China' s accession be placed on the agenda of a General Council meeting for approval by the WTO members, assuming that these have, in the meantime, carried out the internal procedures required for this purpose.
At Community level, this issue must still be discussed by the Member States as the process usually followed and known as the ad hoc Ecuador process is proving to be too tacit and, as such, is incompatible with the political and economic weight of China and with the specific importance of this particular case.
The European Union will have to give its clear and explicit assent to China' s accession to the WTO and the Council must decide on the overall accession package which must also be submitted to Parliament for an opinion.
As for cooperation and technical assistance actions, we have seen that, despite the problems noted throughout this negotiating process, China has proven its commitment to the multilateral process and has even prioritised this in certain regional choices.
First, I should like to endorse in the most glowing terms possible the encomium that he delivered to my colleague, Commissioner Lamy, for the way he conducted these negotiations.
I have had some experience of negotiating with China myself and I have to say that I am lost in admiration for Commissioner Lamy's achievement.
I should like, as he did with characteristic generosity, to say that all of us should also pay tribute to his predecessor, Sir Leon Brittan, who helped to get these negotiations up and running, even though they had to travel several more laps than he thought likely at the time.
Second, I entirely agree with what the honourable Member said about the importance of the outcome of these negotiations.
This agreement is very good for China and Europe; it is good for the Asian region and for the world and, as we saw, it almost certainly had a beneficial effect on the vote in the US Congress.
It will be a challenge for China and, in due course, for the WTO.
Commissioner Lamy has already had an opportunity to set out in the plenary of this House in March the view of the Commission that China's WTO accession is a trade agreement of major importance and, therefore, that it is exactly the type of agreement that would be submitted for Parliament's assent, were the Commission proposals for the IGC to be accepted.
On a more political and pragmatic level, I can assure the House that the Commission will work with the European Parliament to ensure that it can make its voice heard.
The House will know that, in exemplary fashion, Commissioner Lamy has held several rounds of discussions with Members of this Parliament during the final phases of the negotiations with China.
The multilateral phase of China's accession that takes place in Geneva has still to be finalised.
Second, I want to come to the extremely important point which the honourable Member raised about technical assistance to help China to implement its WTO obligations.
We have in the Commission five cooperation programmes in China, which total EUR 25 million.
China's WTO accession and the related considerable needs for technical assistance are likely to generate significant interest from other donors, including the United States and Japan, but also from our own Member States and from the WTO secretariat.
Clearly, close coordination is going to be essential in order to avoid overlaps and to develop synergies between different programmes which each donor will implement in accordance with its own procedures.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, China was yet another of our trading partners to realise during negotiations in Beijing that the European Union has specific, independent weight as a major global trading area.
The Commission represented coherent positions on the part of the European Union with the support of the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers and implemented many of them.
Competition and the reciprocal opening of markets, freedom of establishment and in the provision of services, intellectual property rights, environmental protection and partnership for sustainable development are just a few examples.
For the rest, our position is based on the principles of free and fair global trade and is shaped by the European model of a social, ecological market economy, many fundamental points of which are already included in European framework legislation.
But integrating China into world trade also means ensuring that it is in a position to respect and apply the rules of the World Trade Organisation, act as a responsible partner and take on new responsibilities.
On behalf of the PPE Group, therefore, I welcome the successful outcome of negotiations with China and call on the Council to put this result in political order so that the European Parliament is able to adopt this important decision.
I am sure that it is in the minds of all the honourable members who have spoken and I believe that it is my group' s opinion, that we should use this opening and the integration of China into the World Trade Organisation to help it make a quantum leap.
Firstly I would like to join in the warm congratulations to Commissioner Lamy and indeed his distinguished predecessor Sir Leon, now Lord, Brittan.
I have to confess I get the impression that there is a certain degree of institutional territoriality here, particularly in the large Member States, where the trade and industry ministries are very reluctant to see the Commission continue to extend its scope in those new areas in WTO trade negotiations and, consistent with that, also reluctant to see the European Parliament increase its influence.
It is great that we are going to coordinate with the Americans, but look at the numbers: EUR 25 million is absolutely nothing in comparison to the challenge we face!
We have a total budget for China of EUR 80 million.
I hope the fact that we have signed up to this bilateral deal with the Chinese does not leave them thinking that we are going to be any more forgiving on human rights.
It is all the more important that all three institutions should now be particularly robust about the way the Chinese behave in the so-called dialogue on human rights.
In terms of improving the rule of law, in terms of strengthening democracy or in terms of respect for human rights, we have made no progress in ten years, none at all!
I think that the Members who have spoken about human rights are well aware, as we all are, particularly having heard Commissioner Brittan over the last few years, that there has never been any question of linking human rights and democracy to the WTO agreements.
Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate Commissioner Lamy on securing such improved terms and a deal with China.
After such a long history of negotiations clearly all that was needed was the question from our committee to push the matter to a conclusion.
I would have referred to Commissioner Patten knowing well the difficulties of dealing and negotiating with China, but he has already mentioned that.
I welcome this step in the further integration of China into the world economy but we must recall the emphasis that we, in the European Union, place upon other values in addition to trade.
In that context I would like to call, on behalf of my British Conservative colleagues, for European Parliament participation in the half-yearly dialogue on human rights.
If this Parliament were part of that dialogue we might exert additional pressure for improvement in that field.
Mr President, while international big business is busy popping champagne corks in celebration of the agreement on China's proposed accession to the WTO, China's small-scale farmers are already quaking in their shoes.
There are many people in China for whom this agreement does not spell good news.
But while Cargill is so delighted that its profits will rise while Chinese self-sufficiency in agricultural goods falls, the picture is a good deal less optimistic for the people of China themselves.
The Commission is offering technical support to the Chinese in order to help them with the enormous economic restructuring which accession to the WTO will bring.
Mr Lamy has been quoted as saying that the bilateral negotiations between the EU and China yielded 96% of what the EU was demanding.
One of the biggest and politically most difficult of these has been China' s accession to the WTO, and this same problem will again be associated with the implementation of the agreement in practice.
I wish to put forward a proposal that might relieve pressure on the end of today's agenda, namely, the debate previewed for the late payments directive - the report of the conciliation procedure with the Council.
The rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and the chairman of the committee would all support a suggestion that this be turned into a vote without debate.
That would end pressure on the agenda right at the end of this evening.
But we take very good note of this proposal.
Mr President, the size of the Community budget is a general issue which has been addressed periodically, particularly within the wider debate on the future financing of the European Union prior to the negotiations on the EU financial frameworks.
Within the Interinstitutional Agreement reached on 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improving the budgetary procedure, of which the financial perspectives are an integral part, you will remember that amounts were established which represent an annual maximum limit on expenditure for the European Parliament, Council and Commission.
With regard to expenditure arising from enlargement, the aforementioned Agreement specifies that, in the event of enlargement of the EU to include new Member States during the period covered by the financial perspectives, the European Parliament and the Council, deliberating on a Commission proposal, will jointly adopt financial perspectives taking into account the need for expenditure arising from this enlargement.
However, this alteration of the financial perspectives must respect the maximum limits contained in the guidelines on the financial perspectives for an enlarged Union with 21 Member States, as indicated in Annex II to the Interinstitutional Agreement.
I should like to thank the Minister for answering the question which I tabled, but I think that he has not answered the specific issue which I raised, which is this: in the year in which I have been an MEP, I have noticed that, although the number of EU programmes and initiatives is multiplying continuously, implying new, additional spending, no additional resources are being budgeted for them.
On the contrary, resources budgeted for other commitments are usually cut back; this happened, for example, in order to find money for Kosovo and for developing the Balkans, for the earthquakes and for other issues which have arisen.
However, if the situation worsens to the extent that some of the commitments made by the European Union cannot be kept in accordance with the financial perspectives, then this mid-term revision may clearly occur, as specified in the financial perspectives and for the first time by qualified majority voting.
However, given that we are currently in the first year of implementing the financial perspectives, there is no reason at the moment to justify any reassessment of the commitment made in Berlin.
The Committee on Budgets and the European Parliament agreed in the end in Agenda 2000 to reduce the 1.27% proportion of GDP by 2006.
As the author is not present, Question No 2 lapses.
Mr President, negotiations within the OSPAR commission on issues coming under the Community competence are conducted, as you know, by the Commission in consultation with a committee of representatives of the Member States.
The Council would analyse this proposal with due care.
I know that the Portuguese presidency is very familiar with this issue.
As you know, the OSPAR commission met in Sintra two years ago and some progress was made on pollution of the marine environment.
My question pertains particularly to radioactive emissions.
Given that the Council as such is not a member of the OSPAR commission, only the European Commission can adopt a legislative measure in this respect.
In principle this does not come under the Community competence but is the exclusive competence of the national authorities and in particular, as stated by the Member in his own question, of the Greek High Authority for Data Protection.
I thank the President-in-Office, although I noticed that he contradicted himself in his reply.
The problem lies in determining whether or not, at this stage of the process, this reference constitutes an infringement of Community law.
Therefore, at this stage, this issue does not have a Community dimension.
Question No 5 by (H-0450/00): Subject: Turkey disputes the sovereign rights of Greek islands in the Aegean Prompted by the NATO exercise 'Dynamic Mix' , Turkey has put the spotlight back on its long-standing dispute concerning the established regime of Greek sovereignty over islets and island rocks in the Aegean.
Mr President, the Council does not have any information, rumours aside, on any representations made by Turkey to the Greek Government on 10 May 2000.
It should be recalled in this respect, as this is also extremely positive, that Turkish troops participated in the NATO exercise which took place in part on Greek territory.
Turkish troops have never before participated in exercises on Greek territory.
The Council notes that the Greek Defence Minister described the cooperation between Greece and the Turkish armed forces as excellent and added that the exercises were carried out with full respect for all the sovereign rights of Greece.
We must all cooperate, in all bodies and in all areas in which these issues are raised, to ensure that tensions are not heightened in any way and to eliminate the ghosts of the past in this respect.
Minister, I too am personally in favour of closer relations between Greece and Turkey, but subject to certain specific conditions.
It feels that Turkey can proceed unimpeded on its path towards the European Union, violating Greek sovereignty all the while.
Mr Hatzidakis, in my opinion Helsinki represented a moment of great balance in terms of the concerns of those involved, namely Greece, Turkey and also Cyprus as a third party.
For Greece, as far as Turkey is concerned, there is only one issue which needs to be settled and that is the boundaries of the continental shelf in the Aegean.
We should allow some time for this process to develop before becoming involved in any potential conflicts.
I must remind you that the European Union is the largest donor of aid to rehabilitation projects in South Ossetia and is ready to support measures aimed at creating a climate of confidence, particularly by rebuilding the north-south infrastructures which connect Russia to Georgia.
The Council supports all the efforts made by the competent international bodies, particularly the OSCE in South Ossetia and the UN in Abkhazia, with the aim of contributing to acceptable solutions which can return the political and economic relations to normal and ensure the return of the refugees under safe conditions.
Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, with regard to the measures which the European Union can adopt in this area, I can only point to the plan mentioned and the set of initiatives which the EU has introduced on the ground.
You should remember that we have a limited capacity for intervention in certain areas and that, as was said today in other respects, the difficulties in the EU' s external action framework and the financing of this framework limit the EU' s capacity to be present in all conflict situations.
However, given the strategic importance of the area, the European Union has been doing whatever it considers possible in this respect.
I agree that other measures may be possible but there is not currently a framework of financing which would allow us to go further, particularly in terms of acting to reinforce the infrastructures.
At every opportunity and at various levels, the European Union has reminded Egypt of its concern about the human rights situation and about the need for Egypt to respect fundamental freedoms, particularly given its status as a member of the EU-Mediterranean partnership.
The negotiations on the Association Agreement with Egypt were concluded last year and it is envisaged that this will shortly be signed.
Once in force, this Agreement will turn the political dialogue between the European Union and Egypt into an institutional matter, especially in the area of human rights, which will naturally enable greater intervention and more scope for political pressure in respect of anything which may be regarded as non-compliance by Egypt with its obligations under this Agreement.
In this context, we will of course continue to remind Egypt, as we have done prior to the establishment of this legally binding framework, of its responsibilities and, in particular, of the need to respect human rights and to preserve fundamental freedoms.
The President-in-Office said in his reply that the Council will remind the Egyptians of their responsibilities and wait until they have signed the association agreement and can bring an institutionalised political dialogue to bear.
This issue has been addressed in the bilateral political dialogue and has naturally been raised within the normal framework of relations between the European Union and third countries.
In this particular case we believe that the Agreement has its own negotiating context and it would not be right, after the Agreement has been approved by the European Union and agreed by the Council, to make its final signing dependent on the resolution of an issue, however important this may be, which is only one part of the whole picture.
I can only agree with the honourable Member when he says that there are situations in other countries in the southern Mediterranean which seem more serious than this issue.
It is practically impossible for the European Union to constantly monitor all situations in all the countries with which we have a relationship within the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
Within the Common Foreign and Security Policy and particularly bearing in mind the assessment being made, especially in the framework of our political dialogue within the association agreements, we continue trying to highlight our concern about the gravity of various situations.
I also agree that there are much worse situations in other countries within the Barcelona process, some of which perhaps do not occur to us when we are speaking, which must also be duly assessed.
However, the European Union cannot be expected to do the work of the international institutions in this area.
Question No 8 by (H-0457/00): Subject: Significance of Euro-11 Will the Council say on what issues Euro-11 has, since coming into existence, taken decisions that have been of political significance to the European Union and its Member States?
These meetings are held monthly and before the formal meetings of Ecofin which involve all fifteen Member States.
Euro 11 meetings essentially address issues relating to the specific responsibilities which the eleven countries share in matters involving the single currency.
In all cases where decisions must be taken, Ecofin takes these in accordance with the procedures established in the Treaty.
There are currently no elements of policy coordination between the countries in Euro 11 which naturally affect or should affect their behaviour in Ecofin.
However, it makes perfect sense that countries which are part of an effective policy model and which are involved in implementing policies involving, for example, the single currency framework can separately define and coordinate a position.
For a country such as the honourable Member' s perhaps the problem will be solved by being part of the Euro Council.
What cannot be avoided is that the coordination of the policies of the Euro 11 countries, particularly on the single currency, and the effect that these policies have on the overall context of the EU' s economic and financial policy do not appear to be linked to the EU' s own coordination.
I know of several cases in which government sectors of EU countries meeting at Council level have talked separately and coordinated their positions so that these appear linked in the institutional contexts of the Union.
That is true in that case but in the case of Euro 11 this is institutionalised in the Treaty and it is this which is specified.
I do not see any disadvantage in the existence of various levels of coordination, particularly when these are institutionalised in the Treaty itself.
In accordance with the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy, the Member States, having notified the Commission, may exchange all or part of their fishing quotas.
We therefore cannot find any Council document which refers to the exchange of notes between Belgium and the United Kingdom given that, under Community legislation, it is Member States which are responsible for deciding this by mutual agreement and given that this does not require approval by the Council.
Maybe you can slide out of this example and say it is a Member State talking to the Commission and they send them a letter.
I do not feel that this is a negative practice on the part of the Council as we are actually working in line with the provisions of the Treaty.
The Member States are responsible for assessing the specific projects to be financed by the World Bank.
With regard to projects for Tibet financed by the European Union through its cooperation programme, the EU' s position is that these projects must benefit native Tibetans.
If Europe does not stand for human rights then I do not know what it does stand for.
The British Government has not yet withdrawn its support and all I ask the President-in-Office to do is to remind all Member State governments on the Council - including Britain - that they must not endorse or be seen to endorse illegal acts and abuses of human rights and national rights against the people and the nation of Tibet.
The last round which took place in Lisbon on 25 February was preceded by a démarche with the Chinese authorities which included the problem of human rights in Tibet.
No definitive decision has been made within the European Union on tackling the basic issue and this is a point which must be raised openly.
In the case of Egypt, as has already been said, we have the European-Mediterranean programmes and association agreements.
Moreover, a 1999 decision of the Schengen Executive Committee approved a mutual aid project for the exchange of officials to give assistance and advice in carrying out security and control tasks at external borders.
In terms of addressing the deep-rooted reasons for people wanting to escape and emigrate from certain African countries, we can refer to the action plan for Morocco approved in the Council in October 1999.
This action plan is one of a set of five, each containing an exhaustive and coherent approach focused on the existing situation in a country of origin or transit of asylum-seekers which is regarded as being important.
For each country selected, the action plan presents a balanced combination of options which the European Union offers in terms of foreign affairs, development and humanitarian and economic assistance.
In the action plan for Morocco, which specifically covers the situation referred to by the honourable Member, this country is regarded as a country of origin and transit for economic migration to the European countries.
The measures recommended in this action plan include using existing channels and improving information-gathering, distributing correct information on immigration, creating strategies for combating illegal trafficking and promoting measures intended to apply the readmission agreements.
This requires greater coherence in the internal and external policies of the Union which are the responsibility of both the EU and the Member States.
Partnership with third countries also constitutes a key element in the success of this policy.
The EU is aware that, in order to implement the action plan for Morocco, partnership and cooperation with the Moroccan authorities will be needed.
In this context, in June of last year, a mission to Morocco took place before the action plan was finalised in order to establish a dialogue with the Moroccan authorities.
The consolidation of the action plan for Morocco is clearly a long-term strategy but it is through the dialogue now under way in this context and on the Association Council that progress will be made.
As for the possibility of us periodically carrying out a quantitative assessment of these incidents, I believe that the Spanish authorities may be able to provide the necessary information in this respect.
We must all realise that the European Union has a set of policies which it aims to implement and that these policies involve strategic choices.
We must realise that, in their bilateral relations with Morocco, the Spanish authorities are currently responsible for solving part of the problem.
The European Union is generally involved in a series of projects, in the context of its relations with the southern Mediterranean countries, which include projects for development, population settlement and guarantees of improved economic conditions.
Question No 12 by (H-0466/00): Subject: Decision concerning deployment of EU military personnel The decision to strengthen EU emergency forces for crisis management has raised the question of the legal basis for the deployment of EU military personnel.
According to the Swedish government's interpretation of the decision taken at Cologne in 1999, a relevant UN Security Council resolution has to have been adopted.
The need to respect the principles of the UN Charter and the Charter for European Security is clearly recognised, so much so that the report to be presented by the Portuguese Presidency to the Feira European Council next Monday stresses the fact that, in the area of crisis management and conflict prevention, the European Union must establish close cooperation with the United Nations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
Therefore, only in the latter, for which the use of military force is required, is the existence of a UN Security Council resolution considered necessary.
I should first of all like to know whether the Swedish Government has informed its colleagues in the Council as to whether it is planned to use the veto in the event of an EU action, that is to say an EU military action, being taken in the absence of a decision in the UN' s Security Council.
Some are purely humanitarian, for example rescue tasks.
Do you really think that we need to have a UN Security Council resolution in order to carry out a rescue task in a serious humanitarian situation?
As for the other tasks, we only have to comply with the obligations accepted by the European Union in the context of the UN, particularly bearing in mind that some EU countries are members of the UN Security Council.
Therefore, the spirit of the UN Charter will naturally be followed in the type of activity which the European Union may carry out within those Petersberg tasks which do not involve the use of military force.
We expressly accept the need for this Security Council resolution where military forces are to be used in a given context.
The traditionally neutral countries, particularly the EU Member States which are not members of NATO, have managed to safeguard all their concerns in achieving this balance because this issue is clearly very delicate for these countries.
The European code of conduct on arms exports, adopted on 8 June 1998, prohibits exports of arms to countries where there is a risk of the arms being used in an internal conflict.
As you know, the European Union' s position on arms exports is set out in the code of conduct approved in June 1998.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to hide my amazement at your reply.
I fear that the same fate that has befallen our foreign and security policy as a whole, and which has been discussed so many times, will also befall this code of conduct.
The code of conduct was regarded at the time as a very important qualitative step forward in terms of the disparate practices of the Member States which existed at that time.
Question No 14 by (H-0474/00): Subject: Restoring normal relations with Austria In view of the response given earlier in the year by the Council to the recent political developments in Austria and of the need to promote the best overall interests of the European Community, will the Council now state if it is prepared to restore normal relations with Austria at every level?
The Council of Ministers of the European Union does not have to express an opinion on a decision taken by 14 Member States in the context of their bilateral relations with Austria.
During the term of the Portuguese Presidency, there has been no working body of the European Union in which Austria has not had, like this Parliament, the option of full and active participation with regard to the whole of the EU' s operation.
Every country has every right, with regard to the development of the political situation in another country, to adopt an attitude and to draw the due consequences from this.
The responsibility for the position taken by the 14 Member States was freely assumed by these countries.
It was raised the day before yesterday by the Austrian Foreign Minister in Luxembourg and Doctor Wolfgang Schüssel will very probably take the opportunity afforded by his presence in Santa Maria da Feira to raise this issue.
What can also not be disputed is that the other governments are free to be unhappy about the Austrian Government if they consider that this government contains a party which does not respect a set of basic principles which these governments have collectively undertaken to respect and which Austria has also undertaken to respect.
With regard to the issue of using the Community bodies to raise this issue, we are a free Union in that each Member State has the right to raise this issue formally or informally in the specific context of the Union.
I am not sure what will happen in Feira but clearly Doctor Wolfgang Schüssel is totally free to express his opinions and to see the reaction of the other Member States to his words and arguments.
I would like to hear the views of the Portuguese presidency, and maybe other presidencies, when others coming from the extreme right or indeed the extreme left enter government within the Union.
Someone must take an initiative to resolve this serious problem.
With regard to the result of the Austrian elections, I clearly said that we fully respect the result of these elections.
The problem is that the result of this free election, as has happened in the past in other countries, brought a certain party to power.
Nothing leads us to believe that there has been any positive change which may justify a new attitude of the European Union and, in particular, which may create the opportunity for any type of discussion on this matter within the European Union.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 15 to 28 will be replied to in writing.
By letter of 8 June 2000, the Council requested from Parliament its opinion of the proposed Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 974/98 on the introduction of the euro 2000/137(CNS) and a proposed Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1103/97 which lays down various provisions on the introduction of the euro 2000/134(CNS) before the European Council in Feira on 19 June 2000.
The Committee on Economic Affairs has decided to apply the simplified procedure in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure to both texts.
Furthermore, our model of unequal development leads to poverty and indebtedness in these countries.
It is a contradiction to preach the reconstruction of Central America taking account of respect for the environment, according to a model of sustainable development, while we continue to maintain the same economic relations with those countries.
The second issue involves the global objective of our assistance.
The Commission' s proposal is sensible insofar as it centres its attention on two fields: health and education.
This requires a substantial increase in our staff, a measure which this House supports.
The threat of hostility between Nicaragua and Honduras as a result of border disputes would cast doubt upon the good sense of our aid, and we therefore think that both of those countries should be subject to the decisions of the International Court of Justice.
The other is the recent re-emergence in Guatemala of political kidnappings, such as that of the university professor Mayra Angelina Gutiérrez, political killings, such as that of the Community leader, José Amancio Mendoza, or threats against journalists (the case of Gerardi or the Nobel Prize winner, Rigoberta Menchú) which are of concern.
Although it is considerable, we believe that the amount indicated by the Commission, EUR 250 million, is insufficient given the magnitude of the disaster and the slow rate of the area' s recovery.
We are concerned by the items appearing today in the press indicating that the Commission intends to reduce all European Union aid, including that destined for Latin America, because of its commitments in Kosovo.
The European Parliament has already stated that it would not commit itself to any action which would mean cuts in the aid to other parts of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some regions in the world are struck by the hand of fate several times in quick succession.
And then, just a few years ago, these countries were again hard hit, this time by a terrible hurricane, and they are still suffering the consequences.
The Committee on Budgets supports the idea of earmarking EUR 250 million for this region for the period from 1999 to 2004.
Mr President, our committee undoubtedly agrees with Mr Marset Campos' s report.
The Commission, for its part, must set up suitable structures on the ground.
We know that in El Salvador, for example, the erstwhile Calderón government diverted aid of EUR 1 million in order to win votes in the right-wing camp.
The Union must also guarantee these countries access to the markets for their products, which must be assessed from both an ecological and a social point of view, because there is little point in giving out aid, on the one hand, and excluding these countries from our markets, on the other.
The countries most affected, Honduras and Nicaragua, are the poorest in the region.
As the Commission has said, the consequences of Mitch will considerably reduce the results of the efforts towards economic recovery and investment made there during the last decade by the European Union.
In April 1999, the Commission approved a special action plan, provided with EUR 250 million, which this Parliament fully supports in the terms in which it was approved.
The European Parliament - and I believe we should remember this - reacted immediately by calling an extraordinary meeting on 4 November 1998 which was attended by the Commissioners then responsible.
In its resolution of 19 November, the European Parliament expressed the terms in which the European Union would respond to the situation created by Hurricane Mitch.
I remember the date: November 18-19 1998.
The countries of Central America have taken on very painful processes of structural adjustment which have meant great sacrifices for their societies.
It is now time for our institutions, in the face of a disaster of this type, to be a match for our civil society and for the circumstances.
This resolution has the advantage of going beyond emergencies.
The Community action plan is a chance to combine the reconstruction process with an element of change - change which these countries genuinely need - and to invest in a new economic and social development process based on the priorities of health, education and high quality services, which, in these countries, are directly responsible for the quality of life, and, above all, the quality of their democracy.
The resolution explains in great detail that all this is possible provided that two conditions are upheld and satisfied.
To this end, the resolution calls for the European Union to have sole responsibility for planning, execution and monitoring of the aid.
However, the second condition is much more important: we need to increase the Commission' s financial and human resources.
The resolution adopted by the European Parliament in November 1998 was also a step in this direction in that it referred to the cancellation of the foreign debt of the countries in the region, which amounted to USD 17 billion.
Mr President, there is little to add at this point in the debate, especially after the excellent report by Mr Marset, which I agree with completely.
I think it is particularly important to use the know-how of European organisations and organisations in Member States for reconstruction and to involve non-governmental organisations and local experts.
It is paradoxical that Nicaragua and Honduras, which were two of the least developed countries even before Hurricane Mitch, fail to qualify for the same treatment as many, many others, such as the ACP countries, which we treat well, and rightly so.
In the case of sugar, which is an important product for Nicaragua, Nicaragua has no access of any importance to European markets.
The third challenge is that we need to fight the causes of these disasters.
I hope that we shall be giving the Commission a certain amount of room for manoeuvre in the use of these funds because the speed at which programmes are implemented is often much more important than accounts in black and white down to the last penny.
The EUR 250m regional programme for the reconstruction of Central America, spread over four years, will contribute to the reconstruction and the transformation of the four countries most devastated by Hurricane Mitch - Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala.
The Commission is aware that the success of such an ambitious and complex programme also depends on the degree of coordination among the various actors present.
A coordination group is being set up between the Commission and the Member States.
Another important element will be the Stockholm Follow-up Group.
Until now the Commission has always been involved in an informal way in the activities carried out by this group.
A first report of the activities carried out by the Commission has been distributed among the parliamentary Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
The mobilisation of the statutory personnel necessary for decentralised management and implementation of the programme certainly delayed the rapid launch of the programme, as has been emphasised by several speakers.
The first official will arrive in Managua on 17 July and the remaining officials in the following weeks.
The Commission is taking all necessary steps so that the programme can be in place and operational within the following three months.
We cited it as an example in our recent proposals for the overall reform of our external assistance programmes.
These include the European Community contribution to the HIPC debt initiative, and approval of an improved General System of Preferences Scheme for Central America and Council Regulation of 21 December 1998 applying a multiannual scheme of generalised tariff preferences has been extended to 31 December 2001.
In addition, the Commission is taking part in the HIPC debt initiative, contributing some EUR 50m to both Honduras and Nicaragua.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
That the Treaty of Amsterdam moved in this direction was therefore all the more important.
Allow me to highlight the main points which I think are important for future asylum procedures.
Fourthly: I think that the Member States of the EU should be required to draw up a uniform, binding list of countries subject to a visa requirement and safe third countries and countries of origin.
One important point which I should like to address, and which we have made clear several times in the report, is that the burden must be divided between the Member States.
Common principles were indeed seen as more important than individual political objectives.
The right to asylum is enshrined in various treaties but, because of different definitions and interpretations by national courts, the law is applied to differing degrees.
This obviously contradicts the principles and objectives of the EC Treaty, Title 4 of which refers to asylum policy as an important means of establishing an area of peace, security and justice.
Eight specific points are dealt with: Communitisation of the Dublin system, EURODAC, minimum standards for admission, minimum standards for recognising refugees, minimum standards for granting or withdrawing refugee status, complementary, subsidiary protection, temporary protection for displaced persons and, last but not least, a division of the burden.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to highlight two positive things.
The first is the working document presented by the Commission, which was the starting point for the report.
Austria, for example, where I come from, is always near the top of the list when it comes to admitting temporary refugees or asylum seekers.
It is an important point, because asylum seekers are entitled to a fast decision and a fast answer on their future status.
The third point is that which gives legal certainty and which, when implemented, helps to ensure that identical decisions are taken in all Member States.
It attracted a broad consensus but I fear that this consensus will not perhaps hold up if all the amendments proposed by the Greens are included.
Assert yourself in your party.
The initiatives of the European Union on reuniting families, the anti-discrimination package, temporary protection for war refugees and, at long last, the attempt to harmonise asylum law make this very clear.
Mr Pirker, I do not see a problem with this - you can reject them again tomorrow.
I hope that we will be able to persuade the Member States of the merits of our approach.
Clear, well-defined rules governing the matter are also necessary in order to avoid the right to asylum being confused with the problem of immigration.
I used the word 'problem' intentionally, for the very reason that the absence of an adequate immigration policy has meant that our citizens often perceive all forms of immigration as a problem, a burden and even a hazard, instead of as a social and economic resource and a source of cultural enrichment.
In Italy, for example, unregulated or, even worse, illegal immigration is related to organised crime.
There is, without doubt, a great need to clarify the existing differences between the asylum procedure, reception conditions, the interpretation of the definition of a refugee, the links between that asylum procedure and the 'Dublin mechanism' procedures and other forms of protection and, in this respect, this document perfectly focuses the debate.
Secondly, I would like to say that this report has one virtue which I would like to highlight amongst others - although I have been critical on some points - and that is that it very much insists on legal certainty, on judicial safeguards, on the asylum seeker' s right to defence and, in particular, on everything contained in point 4 and, of course, on everything relating to legal assistance, with the possibility of making contact with NGOs and the UNHCR.
Therefore, Mr President, I hope that certain groups, and in particular the PPE Group, will reconsider this amendment, which takes up the amendment of the Group of the Greens precisely.
It takes up an amendment of the Group of the Greens which was not approved in committee and I believe it should receive the support of the House.
As I said, perhaps you are right, but if we are talking about the individual right to asylum, then this also implies that there must be an individual examination in special cases.
That also forms part of the legal framework.
The disappearance of internal borders and the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice require us to make an effort to harmonise our asylum and immigration policies and to reinforce checks at external borders.
This disproportion is bad for the European Union as a whole because it creates inequalities between Member States.
Mr President, having seen over the years very difficult discussions in Parliament relating to this subject, it is indeed a pleasure for me this evening to see such widespread support for this report.
It is a good working document and we have a good basis to start working, so I congratulate the Commission as well.
Reception countries are happily turning a blind eye to the people passing through their countries on the way to third countries.
Cooperation between police forces, where there is widespread information on prostitution amongst young girls in the Member States, has unfortunately to be an intrinsic part of our asylum policy.
What is clear, particularly in my own country at the moment, is that we must challenge the alarming rise in racism and xenophobia within our communities.
It is a deeply disturbing phenomenon in my own country.
The Commission has now received reactions on this working document from several Member States, from numerous NGOs, and with the report of Parliament, will be in a position to fulfil one of the commitments of the scoreboard, which is to present a directive on minimum standards for asylum procedures.
It is my intention to present this proposal for a directive in the autumn of 2000.
I should like to remind the House that the Commission proposed to the Tampere European Council to adopt a single European asylum system.
But the decision of the European Council in Tampere was to endorse an approach based on minimum common standards.
So the directive is, in my opinion, the most relevant instrument to address these minimum standards for asylum procedures which will have to reflect the cornerstones of the policy of the European Union with regard to asylum as was underscored by the European Council in Tampere: an absolute respect for the right to seek asylum, a full and inclusive application of the Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and maintaining the principle of non-refoulement.
The Commission welcomes the approach the European Parliament has taken in many parts of the motion for a resolution.
The Commission endorses the recital calling for asylum policy to be conducted on as factual a basis as possible.
We have to recognise that finding a balanced solution between simplifying the procedures on the one hand and guaranteeing legal certainty and respect for the rights of asylum seekers on the other hand is not an easy task.
The Commission shares the view of the European Parliament that entry of asylum seekers, migration for economic or other reasons and temporary admittance of displaced persons and refugees in the event of a mass influx must be treated as entirely separate matters.
On 24 May 2000 the Commission adopted a directive on minimum standards for giving temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons and on measures promoting a balance of effort between Member States in receiving such persons and bearing the consequences thereof.
I should like to say that this proposal on temporary protection addresses explicitly the question raised by several speakers on burden-sharing as we have adopted an approach on burden-sharing on the proposal we have already submitted to the Council for a European fund for refugees.
So I should like to stress that this proposal cannot be seen as separate from the other proposals that are already on the table and that they take into account the sensitive question of solidarity among Member States.
To achieve the first step, the Commission will not only come up with a proposal for a directive on common standards for fair and efficient asylum procedures, which we are now discussing, but will also bring forward, inter alia and as soon as possible, proposals on the determination of the state responsible for the examination of an application and on common minimum conditions for reception of asylum seekers.
I should like to remind the House that, as I have already said, we have already put forward for consultation by Member States a working document that aims to replace the Dublin Convention by a Community regulation, having in mind the concrete experience and the vulnerabilities and deficiencies that have arisen in the application of the Dublin Convention.
With regard to the second step, the Tampere conclusions invited the Commission to come forward with a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the Union.
It is my intention that by the end of the year 2000 this communication will be brought forward.
The Commission notes - as has been emphasised by several speakers - that the European Parliament has taken a general position on rationalising Community law on asylum matters in this resolution.
The Commission will not only study the resolution very carefully in order to prepare its proposal for a directive on common standards on asylum procedures - that I reiterate will be presented in the autumn of this year - but will also reflect on them whilst preparing the communication it will put forward by the end of this year on a common asylum procedure in the long term.
I sincerely feel encouraged by the fact that this communication has such broad support in the House.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It points out that within an area of freedom, justice and security within the European Union, citizens must be entitled to effective legal protection.
The Commission would also like to launch a discussion on the treatment of victims and would like to see measures taken to improve their plight.
The measures proposed in the Commission communication appear to be geared exclusively towards victims from one Member State in another Member State, or third country victims legally resident in one Member State in another Member State.
However, the package of measures should also take account of Member State victims in third countries and third country citizens illegally resident in a Member State.
Since they are concerned with both civil and criminal procedures, the Treaties provide the European Union with instruments for increasing the protection of crime victims on its territory.
The scoreboard submitted by the Commission for reviewing progress in implementing the area of liberty, security and justice should be modified in such a way as to guarantee and speed up the legislative follow-up to the present directive.
I would also draw attention to the importance of a legal basis for, and harmonisation of, the measures for protecting victims.
The useful experience available in respect of existing measures in certain Member States can play an important role in harmonising measures or drawing up a common package of measures.
Finally, pending the introduction of a harmonised instrument for cross-border protection of victims, the Member States themselves and the candidate countries, in conjunction with NGOs, will need to enhance the protection of victims.
This applies to all the European institutions.
The best way of preventing crime is to disseminate information.
Crime victims ought also to know to what rights and possible forms of aid they are in fact entitled.
The Commission' s proposal involves introducing minimum standards for receiving crime victims with a view to being able to provide them with information and support where necessary.
It is difficult for foreign crime victims to follow the legal proceedings at a distance, which is why special measures are also required to guarantee the legal position of foreign crime victims.
However, it is also essential that we consider the people most affected by crime: its victims.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
It is therefore crucial that we use these powers to improve the position of victims of crime.
We must in particular draw attention to intrusion or possible intrusion by the press.
I am particularly pleased that this report includes support in the language or dialect of the victim of crime because sometimes that is an area that is overlooked.
Ethnic minorities, very often women, children - those who sometimes find the system difficult - will be the ones who are most at risk in this sort of situation.
The PSE Group is pleased to support this report and to congratulate the rapporteur.
I think, for example, of some of the conclusions of the Wergens report, and we would have expected more from the Commission than proposals for greater dialogue and the exchange of best practice.
We need clear measures to help victims with access to assistance, justice and compensation.
However, it must be said that if we feel the Commission could do more, the biggest problem is by far the Member States.
It seems to us incredible that seven Member States have still not ratified the 1983 Convention on compensation for victims of violent crime and that standards of justice are still so low in so many Member States.
Let me give just one brief example from my own constituency.
He does not have access to legal aid in the Netherlands.
Unless we are able as a Union to help in relatively clear and simple situations like this, our citizens will not have confidence in the single market and will not feel part of the European Union.
I hope that we can take up some of the ideas put forward in this report to improve their situation.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Patsy Sörensen, for the care and accuracy of her report.
On the other hand, I would like to focus my attention on the presentation of various amendments to the draft text which include people affected by terrorism as the victims of crime in the EU.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her valuable work.
People have to enjoy true justice without having to pay for it.
The minimum level of legal protection in the Member States of the EU must not be allowed to slip to that which exists in the United States.
The EU and its Member States must also ensure that the victims of crime do not have to suffer twice over for the wrong done them.
EU Member States must develop more effective cooperation among the authorities in post-trial situations, for example, in the areas of plaintiff and witness protection programmes.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission communication on victims of crime in the European Union, since it studies the process of creating common policies, as well as greater cooperation between the Member States at a time when we are all aware, including this Parliament of course, of the need for this type of communitisation.
One is the sensitivity it shows by specifically highlighting the fact that there are certain social groups - women, children, immigrants, homosexuals - who are more vulnerable than the rest of the population, as well as the fact that there are also certain sectors who, ignoring the most basic democratic principles, prefer to use violence to impose their objectives.
From another point of view and bearing in mind the ever increasing importance and influence of the media in our society, special attention should be paid to the way in which the media deal with the reality of these people, which is not always respectful of individual rights, above all when we are talking about minors, whether they be victims or delinquents.
With regard to these people it is also necessary to apply certain measures so that they can rebuild their lives correctly, not only from an economic point of view, but also through psychological, legal, medical and social assistance.
I must finally stress my deep concern about the need to pay due attention to the victims of terrorism, since these are people who suffer from a very serious and specific form of crime which, unfortunately, does not only take place in my country, Spain, and which threatens democratic coexistence and freedom.
Mr President, as the Commission says in the introduction to its communication, we cannot seriously speak of a citizens' Europe without dealing with the rights of victims.
This is a balanced report which has been sensitive to the victims of terrorism, because if there are three groups of victims which must receive our special attention, they are, as the Treaty says, victims of trafficking in human beings, victims of crime against children and victims of terrorism.
It should be noted that the Commission communication differs from this in offering a broader approach to issues of the European level protection of victims of crime.
This broader approach takes the view that the issue of victims also necessitates work on prevention, information, practical help and the status of victims in criminal trials.
That is why it declared that it is in the Union' s interest to adopt minimum standards for the protection of victims of crime, specifically with regard to access to justice for these victims and their right to compensation, including the reimbursement of their legal fees.
This issue must not only be addressed at European level, but the Tampere Council also recommends establishing national programmes to finance both public and non-governmental measures for the assistance and protection of victims.
The Commission agrees fully with the approach for the need to develop victim support networks, particularly language support.
By the same token, we share the rapporteur' s concern at the special attention that needs to be paid to particular categories of victim, such as foreign nationals, minors, and victims of sexual violence, the trade in human beings or terrorist acts.
We are paying close attention to a proposal for a framework decision on the protection of victims in Europe, which is already under consideration by the Council.
We are already establishing contacts with the future Swedish Presidency, which, this autumn, with support from the Grotius programme, will be organising a special seminar specifically on compensation mechanisms.
Similarly, in a very practical move, the Commission has already decided to carry out a study into the feasibility of establishing a European victim aid system in the form of a free multilingual telephone helpline.
Many Members have expressed regret that the Commission' s scoreboard only provides for measures on aid for crime victims from 2004 onwards.
Nevertheless, as you see, the Commission is already committed to working without delay on this issue, which is so important for the people of Europe, and I hope that we will have achieved tangible results even before 2004.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, at 12 noon.
It is important to SMEs, it is important to the public sector, it is probably a far more important instrument for promoting employment than many of the resolutions passed here in this House.
In addition - and this was an important point - the principle of equal treatment between the public and private sectors has been acknowledged.
This does not figure in the directive but, in my experience as an MEP, we often hear complaints when we visit SMEs and large companies alike, that the Commission is often far too late honouring the payment commitments which it has entered into in research promotion or other areas.
I hope that the Commission will be guided by the spirit of this directive and make its own payments on time, because here too, I repeat, this is breach of contract.
What I can say is that the negotiations between the European Parliament and the Council were a most pleasant experience.
Of course, I can say now that it was a pleasant experience because the outcome has been extremely positive for Parliament.
Mr President, I have already received many reactions from within the SME world to the text that we will be adopting tomorrow and, partly on behalf of all these SMEs, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work.
Mr President, as early as in 1993 - at the very outset of the internal market - we, together with Parliament, asked the Commission to submit a proposal to regulate late payments.
I have another question for the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this directive is, without doubt, the most important directive for the small and family-run businesses of Europe.
The stronger the partner, the more power he has to make a business wait.
Now, with the Treaty of Amsterdam, we may have a clearer legal basis, but we must make a great effort to establish effective coordination and harmonisation in all of these areas.
In fact, you will be aware that public companies settle within a certain period, and this time limit means that it will no longer be possible for private companies who deal with the public sector to impose large, excessive burdens on public companies.
Mr President, in one way it is a good thing that the public in the 15 European states does not take too much notice of what we are doing, especially on evenings such as this where you, Mr President, the Commissioner, seven members and roughly the same number of officials must stand by our posts.
There is a proverb in Italian: Non e mai troppo tarde - it is never too late!
But it is too late for many small and medium-sized enterprises, family businesses and young entrepreneurs.
Mr President, I had asked the Commission whether it intended to submit a proposal on conditions for the setting up, and mutual recognition of, debt-collecting agencies in Europe.
