Preparation of the Copenhagen Summit on climate change (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparation of the Copenhagen Summit on climate change.
At that meeting, we agreed on the EU's strong and collective mandate in preparation for the UN climate conference in Copenhagen.
We established, among other things, that by 2050, the EU's emissions need to be reduced by 80-95% compared to 1990 levels.
We also determined that the EU will, in any event, reduce emissions by 20% by 2020, but that we will reduce them by 30% if a sufficiently ambitious agreement is reached in Copenhagen.
In comparing this with other countries' emissions reductions, we will place particular importance on the objective of limiting the temperature increase to two degrees - that must be the yardstick for comparing our emissions reductions with those of other countries.
The destruction of the rainforest must be halved by 2020 and have ceased by 2030.
Now there are just two weeks left before the climate summit in Copenhagen.
We need to reach an ambitious and comprehensive agreement in Copenhagen.
Yesterday, we held an extraordinary meeting of the Environment Council in order to be able, with combined force, to make Copenhagen the milestone in our work on climate change that we want it to be.
In the EU's decision ahead of the Copenhagen conference, the Heads of State or Government have determined that the EU's goal is for the Copenhagen process to lead to a legally binding agreement for the period starting 1 January 2013, based on the Kyoto Protocol and containing all of the essential elements.
An agreement that will result in developing countries committing to take measures to reduce emissions to below what they would have been if no measures were taken, particularly in those countries belonging to the major economies, and developed countries providing immediate financial aid for necessary measures in developing countries, particularly in the poorest countries, during 2010, 2011 and 2012.
It is in Copenhagen that the decision should be taken, and that decision should include everything that is important for the climate.
He has also agreed that it should contain all of the key elements as well as the measures that can be initiated immediately.
An agreement in Copenhagen must cover all of the world's emissions.
I look forward to the continued cooperation with Parliament, particularly through the COP15 group that will be on site in Copenhagen.
With our joint forces, we will together work to bring about a very successful, ambitious and genuine agreement in Copenhagen.
Mr President, we are fast approaching the crucial Copenhagen Summit and there is little time left.
I should like to thank the European Parliament for the resolution on the EU strategy for Copenhagen.
I am also counting wholeheartedly on the support of the members of Parliament in Copenhagen.
Of course, I should also like to stress the importance of our contacts with third country parliaments, with civil society and with companies, in order to make the positions of the European Union known and, in this way, convince other countries to adopt binding declarations on reductions in greenhouse gases.
In order to achieve this objective, action is needed both by developed and developing countries.
In other words, we must go beyond 2째 Celsius.
Furthermore, funding will need to be secured in Copenhagen for fast-start, so that what needs to be done immediately can be done without waiting for the 2010-2013 period.
As Mr Carlgren said, certain countries, such as Brazil and South Korea, have announced that they will be taking measures.
Similar announcements are expected by the time the summit starts from other countries, such as China and India.
It is still extremely important that we secure more commitments on specific measures and action towards an economy based on less intensive carbon dioxide emissions.
Of course, this does not mean that they will not be able to set specific quantitative targets in Copenhagen.
As I said earlier, developing countries will need to reduce their emissions by 15-30% compared with business as usual.
Our fundamental objective in Copenhagen is still to achieve a legally binding agreement.
We also want this agreement to be a global agreement that covers all elements of the Bali action plan, incorporates progress made to date and contains quantitative factors for reductions in emissions and funding.
It has been at the forefront in the European Union and internationally and has helped to encourage our strategic international partners.
This close cooperation will continue in the run-up to Copenhagen and I must say that I am delighted that Parliament will be represented by a strong delegation.
I should also like to commend your efforts to get the European leaders singing from the same song sheet, as it is more important than ever, in these crucial negotiations, that Europe speak with one voice.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I can say that we share your hope that an ambitious agreement will be reached that leads to binding reduction targets not only for the European Union, the United States and Japan, but also for countries such as China, Brazil and India.
Mr President, it is crucial that agreement be reached in Copenhagen on a financial package to help fund the climate projects in developing countries.
Europe must take its fair share of this responsibility.
At the same time, it is essential to conclude agreements to ensure that these funds make an active, effective contribution to reducing climate change, and also agreements on technology transfer and the protection of intellectual property rights.
The climate agreement has the potential to give an important boost to this, and also to us in Europe, to ensure that our social market economy increasingly becomes a sustainable social market economy.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, the European Parliament has been a driving force in the debate on climate protection, and we have also achieved a large percentage of the EU's climate protection package.
The EU has taken on the leadership role in these issues and we want that to remain the case in Copenhagen.
We must therefore stand by our offer of a 30% reduction in CO2 by 2020.
We know that global climate protection is not possible without financing.
In contrast to the Council, Parliament has given specific figures in this regard.
The global framework is around EUR 100 billion, and Europe needs to take on around a third of that.
Parliament has committed itself to this and I hope that the Council and the Commission will be equally specific in two weeks time.
Mrs Wortmann-Kool has already mentioned the kick-start.
We need EUR 5 to 7 billion straight away.
To achieve this, the target of a 30% reduction must be upheld, as Mr Leinen just said, and obviously with the necessary financial resources, estimated at EUR 100 billion for 2020.
Europe's leadership on this crucial issue for the future must result in an agreement being reached, but not an agreement at any price, in other words, not one that falls short of its objectives, that has no financial resources, controls or constraints.
Everyone will answer to the international public and to future generations for the position they adopt in Copenhagen.
The position of we Europeans must be clear, unambiguous and extremely robust.
The agreement needs to contain long-term emission targets, though it is even more important to agree on emission limits for the year 2020.
EU leadership is now crucially important, as before.
The best way we can demonstrate leadership is by committing now to a 30% cut in emissions for 2020 and by making a clear offer of financing to the developing countries.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for being among the politicians emphasising the importance of the European Parliament to the forthcoming summit and to climate policy and climate change in themselves.
I would also like to stress that if the EU cannot come forward as one body with a strong and clear mandate and cannot reach a clear agreement on funding, it will weaken our position in the world enormously.
It would not bother me in the slightest if we lost our number one position because I believe that it is time for the common burden to assume a genuinely global scale.
I share the belief that without a global agreement, all of our efforts will come to nothing.
There is no point here in constantly reiterating the importance of states such as the US, India or China.
Mr President, I completely agree that we must push to find a legally binding agreement in Copenhagen.
The agreement must be strong enough to combat the challenge of climate change and, at the same time, it must be balanced and fair with regard to developing countries.
Industrialised countries must promise a reduction of at least 40% in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and a reduction of between 80% and 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
By 2020, the EU must commit EUR 30 billion a year as climate funding for developing countries, on top of foreign development aid.
Unfortunately, there are people in Europe who are very interested in using other countries' reluctance to take the necessary steps as an excuse for the EU not to fulfil its obligations.
If we succeed in creating a framework at European level that promotes science, innovation and modern, environmentally friendly technologies - green technologies - and renewable energy sources, we Europeans can achieve two objectives.
First of all, we will all be making a positive contribution to reducing climate-damaging CO2 emissions, enabling us to bring an end to our major dependence on fossil fuels.
Mr President, I must say that I really appreciate the broad support that the EU's approach has received from almost everyone in Parliament.
I am certain that Parliament can play a very important part there, too, in reaching out to representatives of other countries.
The EU has shown the way here.
We have, in fact, already got half way towards our 2020 target of 20%.
Otherwise, this extra 10% from the EU would be eaten up by only two years of emissions increases in China, and we will still not have saved the climate.
That is why the global agreement is so important and why Parliament's role is so vital, as this is an important political basis on which to build further.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, after what you said, I did not expect you to give me the floor, but I will take this opportunity to say two words about the main argument that was put forward for the 30% target.
The moral leadership of Europe is important, but it also acts as an example by showing that green business is very important for our competitiveness.
So we have these two ways of pressing other countries to come forward with ambitious commitments and agree in a legally binding agreement.
Secondly, it is cheaper today, much cheaper than when we were discussing our climate and energy package: it is cheaper by about 30-40% now to achieve this target.
Thirdly, it is not just going to give us what Andreas Carlgren said previously, a lever to persuade the others, but also and most important, will be the pressure by example; public opinion around the world will appreciate what the European Union is doing.
Of course we need a binding agreement, for the entire issue of climate protection, but in Europe, too, for our European industry.
We also have industry in other sectors, and we must also think about the competitiveness of that industry beyond Europe.
And that is before the effects of climate change really hit us.
That is why, Minister Carlgren and Commissioner Dimas, I am very, very pleased at the signals that you are sending today.
I think that is something that is lacking in the public debate.
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to get the support of the Heads of Government in Europe.
Finally, I would like to say that it is extremely important that we in Europe take the lead in arguing that this does not mean that living standards must fall - in either the rich world or the poor world.
The situation is fluid.
The European Union rightly states that it is essential to conclude an agreement in Copenhagen; our climate will brook no delay.
In order to meet the two degree target that the European Union has been saying for years it wants to meet, rich countries must reduce their emissions by 40%.
Copenhagen can succeed, Copenhagen must succeed, and the European Union still holds the key to its success. (NL) Ladies and gentlemen, Copenhagen has failed even before the conference has begun.
A deal may be struck, but there will be no legally binding agreement.
The price of going it alone would be very high: it would cost European industry hundreds of billions of euros in the period up to 2020, resulting in the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in Europe.
Industrialised countries are responsible for high CO2 emissions, so they must pay for this and support developing countries.
Ambition is one thing, but taking responsibility is what really matters. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us draw a merciful veil over the unbelievable sum of EUR 30 billion per year until 2020 that the EU would be committing itself to paying out to the emerging countries, basically without any security.
To us Italians, that is reminiscent of the notorious Italian Cassa del Mezzogiorno.
Firstly, we are calling for legally binding and equally ambitious commitments, not just for the other industrialised countries, but also for the emerging economies and, in particular, China, India and Brazil.
Secondly, we are asking that any European allocations from which those countries benefit be made conditional on the use of 'made in the European Union' technology, so that our businesses can be at least partially repaid for the further onerous emissions reduction commitments that the EU is imposing on them, to be borne entirely at their own cost.
Climate change is being used to impose an anti-human utopia as deadly as anything conceived by Stalin or Mao. (DE) Mr President, Albert Einstein once said, 'Make things as simple as possible, but not simpler'.
We should approach the conference with optimism but also realism.
At the same time, we know that the United States, China and the APEC countries, which together are responsible for two thirds of the world's CO2 emissions, take a very critical stance on this issue.
It is now less about holding a numbers race and wanting to have 20% or 30% cuts and more about trying to bring about a global agreement, not solely a European one, and we must attempt to obtain binding targets for everyone which can then be monitored and, above all, complied with.
It is to no one's benefit if Europe is threatened with 'carbon leakage' and businesses move elsewhere, when businesses here in Europe produce twice as energy-efficiently as those in other parts of the world.
It is likewise to no one's benefit for various countries around the world to clear rainforests - 12 500 km2 of rainforest was cleared in Brazil last year.
It is therefore much more important to curb this deforestation than to take part in such a numbers race.
I therefore ask the negotiators to head to Copenhagen with realism, but also great optimism, in mind. (SV) Mr President, I am pleased to see the Swedish minister's commitment.
However, he is still very much alone.
At the same time, we risk undermining the system by opening the way for a large proportion of the emissions reductions to be made in the developing countries through clean development mechanism (CDM) projects.
It is a positive tone, a tone that conveys a belief that an international agreement can really be reached; that is, an agreement containing internationally binding standards.
Mr President, a minimum of 60 Heads of State or Government will be travelling to Copenhagen.
Copenhagen will not succeed unless Europe plays a strong leading role, as we all know.
The World Resources Institute has published statistics showing that China stands at around 70 tonnes per capita, a cumulative figure since 1950, whereas the United States stands at 810 tonnes and the EU-27 stands at 413 tonnes.
That is not acceptable, that is not serious. (PL) Mr President, in the case of Kyoto, we gave developing countries concessions and exclusions which caused the loss of a significant part of our competitiveness.
The proposed resolution places a burden on our national budgets of EUR 30 billion a year for the next 10 years, which will be used to help developing countries.
In the case of Poland, the proposed method of calculating the contribution could mean a cost of even EUR 40 billion over 10 years until 2020.
The doubtful effects of the Kyoto Protocol, the privileged position of developing countries and the rising costs of this policy make us opposed to this resolution.
We are responsible not only for the climate but also for the prosperity of our citizens. (DE) Mr President, in many parts of the world the consequences of climate change are visible.
I look forward to Copenhagen, when the political class is sitting around the table awkwardly failing to mention the giant elephant in the room, which is that the globe has not actually warmed for the past 10 years. (ES) Mr President, I would firstly like to recognise the effort made, and also the enthusiasm shown by both the Commission and the Council and, of course, Parliament over such a long period throughout this programme to combat climate change.
But Copenhagen will just be the beginning, because when we come back from Copenhagen, we in Europe will have to continue our work to cut our emissions.
We have got to keep investing in energy efficiency, in renewables and in low-carbon technology.
I am very pleased that last week we agreed as a European Union that there will be investment in technologies like carbon capture and storage, and that one of those plants will come to my constituency in Yorkshire, at Hatfield.
I do not know whether this will be the last opportunity on the floor of the House to thank you for the work you have done as Commissioner over the last few years, but the Commission has really done a very good job in putting Europe in the lead, and your work has to be commended to this House.
Finally, I hope that this House will vote for a good resolution on climate change, and I hope we will reject the amendments put down by Members of the House on the opposite side who seem to want to water down our commitments.
They want to reduce our targets and they want to offset more of our emissions.
The EU climate package passed in December 2008 was important in showing the seriousness of our commitment to climate change, and what has been agreed in recent months under the Swedish Presidency has also been important - particularly the recast Energy Performance of Buildings Directive, which will slash the carbon footprint of both new and renovated buildings.
However, there is one glaring gap in Europe's plans, and that is investment.
It is a startling fact that the US, despite not having passed legislation, has committed more than USD 100 billion to clean-energy spending and China has pledged USD 200 billion in its economic stimulus plan, whereas the EU commitment is little more than USD 50 billion.
We should bear that in mind and not be too self-congratulatory in the run-up to Copenhagen. (DE) Madam President, I have a specific question for Commissioner Dimas.
On that basis, I do not understand why we are spending so much time discussing reaching a 30% target since, by implementing efficiency measures, renewable energy sources and also the emissions trading scheme and a little bit of carbon offsetting, we can easily achieve 30 or 35%.
Despite what we have heard here, these are not the most important negotiations in the history of mankind, and in fact, the future of mankind does not depend on these negotiations as some of our fellow Members are saying.
The decisions on specific limits in the climate package were not made in a precise and detailed way.
One can only express regret that it has already been settled that, in fact, the effects of this package, the financial effects, will principally concern the poor countries, the new countries of the EU.
The decision to make financing in this matter dependent, not on income per resident, but on the pollution limit, is a decision which hits the economies of the new countries of the EU, including my country, Poland. (PT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a consistent approach to the problem of climate change, which goes beyond simply setting emission reduction targets, requires a realistic explanation of the means by which they can be achieved.
The importance that the European Union attaches to market solutions is indicative of a fundamentally political and ideological choice.
Let me also add that, in order to succeed, we must also act seriously and pursue our objectives in a way that is clear and transparent.
The first point I would like to make is that cutting greenhouse gas emissions is both a European and a global objective.
We must not allow our efforts to combat climate change to create a rivalry between individual low-carbon technologies.
If we want to be successful, we must seriously consider using all the technologies available.
However, how do we explain to our taxpayers that we have undertaken to finance the sustainable development of third countries without requiring from them any commitment whatsoever that would reassure us that they are using these funds for their intended purpose.
To me, this seems to be proof that our decision to persist with political pressure was the right one.
In conclusion, I wish to send out a clear message.
The countdown has really begun to save the Copenhagen Summit and to ensure that the main polluting countries of the planet sign an ambitious agreement and make a commitment to future generations.
This leads me to mention what I consider to be a flaw in our resolution, namely the lack of consideration given to the impact of climate change on people's health.
It is set in 2055 and focuses on a lone survivor of climate catastrophe.
Yet even the most ambitious target the EU is currently proposing - a 30% cut by 2020 - will give us only a 50/50 chance of avoiding the worst of climate change.
Do not let the epitaph for Copenhagen be that this was the Age of Stupid. (PL) Madam President, once again in a matter which is very important for the European Union, we are constantly hearing the magic word 'success'.
Meanwhile, the press in Europe is full of information saying that the Copenhagen Summit will not be a success.
I want to say just one thing, and it is the most important thing - the European Union is responsible, the EU Member States are responsible for what happens in the world, but they are responsible first and foremost for their own nations, states and citizens, the people who set their hope on what we do, the people who also hope that things will develop well for them in the future.
It is clear now that the scientific consensus on man-made global warming is fast eroding: 30 000 sceptical scientists in the Manhattan Declaration; 600 scientists in a US Senate report; even German scientists this year writing to Chancellor Angela Merkel.
This is just enviro-imperialism. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the climate debates, we have seen a variety of views here in Parliament on the causes and impact of climate change.
I do not wish to pursue this, but a number of my fellow Members who have made reference to this are right: there are an increasing number of new voices in the scientific community, and I would want us to debate these new voices with each other in a fair way.
My second point is that Parliament has adopted a clear position for the Copenhagen Summit.
There is also a remit for everyone here in Parliament to look after the wellbeing of the people of the European Union, and to do so in every respect.
In these debates, we must ensure that we do not view one project as the only political project that is significant for us.
Another Member also pointed out that our contribution is 10%.
These are measures that involve changes, but they are also a genuine, decisive stimulus for economic growth through job creation.
The eco-industry now represents more than three million jobs, and environmental technologies are a growing part of a sector with a turnover of more than EUR 200 billion per year.
The socialists in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy therefore want the international negotiations to get back on the path of understanding, so that a genuine global agreement can be reached in Copenhagen. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Madam President, European climate policy should leave its reverie behind and take note of the international realities.
First of all, Kyoto was a failure.
Thirdly, politics must take note of a debate emerging in science.
The same scientists who signed the conclusions of the IPCC panel two years ago today talk of natural influences on the climate - something that the IPCC categorically ruled out two years ago.
The scientific community, via the IPCC, is calling on the European Union and the Member States to commit to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared with 1990 values.
Current commitments by the European Union are just 50% of what IPCC reports are calling for as the absolute minimum commitment.
The IPCC is to climate change what the International Monetary Fund is to the economy.
Moreover, the European Union is insisting on an increase in the target for reducing emissions to 30% in 2020, provided that other developed countries commit to comparable reductions in emissions.
In the clamour of information, where some countries are bidding and competing with each other in declaring ever more ambitious goals, others are announcing grand expectations, and yet others have an entirely passive attitude, and it is easy to lose sight of the main purpose of what is, quite simply, a historical agreement.
This is why educational work is also so important.
We need to work at educating the citizens, and the European Commission should be responsible for this.
Combating climate change must not be treated as a whim of wealthy countries which want to force their point of view on others.
I think that in this matter, the Commission and the Representations must maintain a permanent policy of information and education.
Also needed is a strong policy supporting the search for effective technologies to capture the carbon dioxide produced from coal used as an energy source.
The last thing - the costs of establishing a special fund to support the fight against climate change, should be spread equally across the Member States depending on the level of their wealth. (PT) Madam President, only a few days before Copenhagen, it appears more difficult than ever to come up with a legally binding agreement.
The European Union must continue to lead the negotiations and apply pressure to the other parties.
At the very least, Copenhagen should result in binding political commitments and a schedule that will allow the adoption of a post-Kyoto agreement in June 2010 in Bonn.
The US, Japan, the BRIC countries and many others must take on commitments which are comparable to those of the European Union, since the sole efforts of the EU cannot come close to achieving the objective of limiting the temperature increase to 2째 C.
Funding for the adaptation of developing countries must not be allowed to jeopardise the Millennium Development Goals, particularly in African countries, which are most affected by climate change.
European leaders have great ambitions for the negotiations in Copenhagen.
Following my inclusion in the parliamentary delegation which travelled to Washington in connection with the negotiations in Copenhagen, I learnt that the economic effectiveness of the measures envisaged to combat climate change needs to be discussed.
As soon as all the participants in the negotiations are convinced that the measures for combating climate change will have a beneficial economic effect and that their economies will not be vulnerable, a global strategy will be reached. (FR) Madam President, everyone is hoping and praying today for an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen, but it has to be said that the ambitions of the Copenhagen Summit have, in fact, been watered down over the last few weeks, due in particular to the reservations of the United States and China.
However, we are seeing something of a figures race, a finance race, in our debates.
What I am asking for is for Europe not to be naive but to be a realistic and firm negotiator with those of its partners that have not made significant efforts to reduce their emissions.
Europe must not be naive with regard to China and India.
True, Brazil and Korea have already decided to commit themselves, but while Europe wants to set an example, it cannot do so at any cost, and especially not at the cost of its deindustrialisation.
Secondly, we must equip ourselves with a binding agreement that states that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 30% by 2020, and by 80% by 2050.
In our resolution, it is proposed that the poorest countries be granted EUR 300 billion for the next 20 years.
EUR 500 billion has also been quoted as a figure and, in this case too, we, the European Union, must set an example.
What that means is that climate protection does cost money.
We, in Europe, really are the pioneers when it comes to cutting greenhouse gases in the transport sector.
We also have to fulfil European Union technical requirements in relation to catalytic converters through the tightened-up Euro standards Euro 4 and Euro 5.
If we want to achieve something in maritime transport and aviation, however, it is necessary to re-intensify our negotiations with the 20 Annex I states.
We must push on with our activities in this regard.
I do not know whether the leaders of this multipolar world want to be judged by history for not being capable of achieving a binding agreement, but I do not think that I, as an MEP, along with all the representatives of the people, should be judged by History for not being capable of taking forward in Copenhagen the binding commitment we have with humanity to prevent climate change. (FR) Madam President, firstly I should like to commend the Swedish Presidency's efforts to reach an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen, despite the very strong wind of pessimism prevailing over these forthcoming negotiations.
Personally speaking, I do not believe that it is realistic to admit at this stage that the Copenhagen Summit is destined to fail or that it will not result in a conclusive agreement to be ratified by all the parties.
We must continue to believe in a comprehensive, ambitious and binding global political agreement, paving the way for the conclusion of a legal treaty as soon as possible.
It really is too soon to mention the deadline of the COP16 in December 2010.
He has been indefatigable.
In Copenhagen, we will be able to do all this and I will participate in the summit on behalf of Father Turrini as well. (FR) Madam President, we are all aware - and we have all said as much - of the importance of the Copenhagen negotiations but, while we all hope for an agreement, we cannot accept one at any price.
The European Union, as the only continent that has seen its CO2 emissions fall since 1990, and as the only continent that has made precise, binding and ambitious commitments for the future, cannot assume the burden of the task on its own.
That is why, if other industrialised and emerging countries do not wish to assume their share of the responsibility, they will have to accept the full consequences of this in the form of the introduction of a tax at our borders to protect our industry from the competition of those who decide not to be part of a global agreement.
We Europeans ask for a little more each day from our manufacturers.
As evidence of this, I would cite the climate change package that was signed under the French Presidency.
A sector such as the transport sector, which is one of the biggest emitters of CO2 - even if some modes of transport, such as aeroplanes, emit fewer greenhouse gases - is contributing more and more to the fight against climate change.
According to scientific estimates, the reductions should be close to 40%, something that is not only achievable, but that will also result in us strengthening our competitiveness and creating more green jobs. 2.
What developing countries must do to limit their emissions, and this applies to China and India in particular. 3.
How much short-term financing is to be provided to the developing countries by the rich nations and in what form.
The argument is that the price of carbon dioxide could be kept reasonable - which is to say at a level that would promote measures to reduce emissions - if the cut were 30%.
I would, however, like to remind the Commission that, under the Emissions Trading Directive, the EU's target of 20% for cuts in emissions will only change to 30% if other industrialised countries make 'comparable reduction efforts', and if the advanced developing countries have some obligations.
Achieving a political agreement at Copenhagen will still not be enough.
Nevertheless, a legally binding agreement will not be enough either before all the countries ratify it.
A legal agreement on global climate policy would be precisely worded and deal with hundreds of issues, with headings such as Quantitative Targets for Emission Cuts in the Industrialised Countries for 2020 and Beyond, Specific Emission Targets for the Developing Countries for 2020 and Beyond, Financial Aid for the Developing Countries from the Industrialised Countries, Technology Development and Transfer, and Sinks and their Accounting Rules.
That is why the environmentally responsible policy is making reductions in the EU conditional on the efforts of others.
This agreement must contain operational elements that can be implemented immediately and a schedule which will allow the drawing up of a legally binding agreement during the course of 2010.
The agreement must involve all countries that signed the Convention, and it is vital that any commitments, whether in terms of reducing emissions or in terms of funding, are clearly set out.
For their part, commitments undertaken in national plans should be made known to the international community, thus guaranteeing greater transparency over all processes.
Madam President, I said 'could' because in the final days of the APEC Summit, the United States and China seemed to have decided to change the scope of the Copenhagen meeting.
However, there is still time before the summit, and it is in the interests of all those involved to arrive there with specific objectives and programmes, so that the great expectations of making further progress in combating climate change are not disappointed.
The polluter pays principle must apply to all.
Europe has always taken a leading role and the climate-energy package in the previous legislature is a clear example of this.
We have already said it on many occasions: the United States, China, India, Russia and Brazil must also assume their responsibilities, as countries that are major polluters.
If this does not happen, we will have imposed needless costs on our European businesses and, above all, without contributions by these countries, Copenhagen too risks being a lost opportunity.
We must reach decisions that are even more binding than those taken in Kyoto.
Therefore, we must call on our leaders to create an international organisation like the WTO, which will be in charge of regulating climate change and environmental issues; to create a climate change adjustment fund - in addition, of course, to official development assistance; and to introduce a carbon tax for sea and air travel, which must also be introduced for financial transactions.
By adopting, tomorrow, the motion for a resolution on the European Union's strategy before the Copenhagen Summit, we MEPs must show that we are, firstly, totally determined, and that the summit must culminate in an agreement - one which is precise, certainly, but which is, above all, binding.
Starting in Copenhagen, we must be able to expect more lucidity and more responsibility from the major powers of this world. (HU) The EU's Member States in Central Europe wholeheartedly support the European Union's climate policy objectives.
This is why the new Member States feel that it is very important that they play a reasonable role in this regard in the future as well.
In the global emission reduction agreement, consideration must be given to the new Member States' economic clout and GNA.
It is also very important that these Member States do not lose the tools for implementing their green investments and developing renewable energy sources. (RO) The European Commission and Member States financed a study published recently, which criticises the European Union's climate policies for being limited to reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions without attaching importance to the natural capacity for capturing carbon dioxide.
On the other hand, this study indicates that the intensive method of farming developed by the European Union bears a great deal of responsibility for climate change.
Lastly, to conclude, I should like to thank Mrs Dati for her determination, and if I have understood her correctly ... (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) The European Union has ample moral grounds for taking decisive action in order to achieve a reduction in emissions from the United States and China.
This is based on the fact that the European Union and its 27 Member States have fulfilled the commitments made in the Kyoto Protocol.
The collapse of their heavy industry resulted in a significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, but we paid a social price for this.
On the other hand, it must be possible - which would be reasonable - for quotas that have not been used up to be transferred to subsequent periods, if they could be used for environmental protection purposes. (PL) Madam President, the resolution on the EU strategy for the Copenhagen conference on climate change is a very important and ambitious document, but without a global agreement, the summit will end in failure.
We know that the United States is trying to establish details and the ultimate level of limits on emissions with international negotiators, but there are many indications that they will not manage to reach a final decision before the summit.
The leading role of the European Union is very important, but I have the impression that it is only the EU which is being ambitious.
Also, it is the responsibility of the industrialised countries to establish with developing countries not only targets to be reached, but also the resources to be used to reach them.
The resolution sets out specific instruments and it is important that we have quantified the actions.
Thirdly, funding has been mentioned time and time again here this morning.
The point about funding is simple.
As other colleagues have said, if we could accentuate the positives, both for economies and for citizens, in the climate change debate, there might be more traction - because there are positive sides to this debate.
While the United States and China refuse to lay down common, binding greenhouse gas reduction targets, all that can be adopted in Copenhagen - as the UN's chief climate official tellingly observed - are morally binding resolutions, in other words, toothless ones.
I therefore support a resolution that has been drawn up by the anti-nuclear power delegate of my home region of Upper Austria, which calls on the EU to introduce a levy on nuclear power.
This idea makes sense, because it would mean that trade in emissions certificates would not be weighted in favour of nuclear power. (PL) Madam President, in a few days, world leaders, including representatives of the European Parliament, will meet in Copenhagen to discuss the question of climate change.
Without doubt, a matter of great importance is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but equally important is the protection of European industry.
The goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by the year 2020 in comparison with 1990, without the support of the largest polluters, such as the USA, India and China, seems difficult to achieve.
This is also the case with the provisions in the draft resolution which aim to achieve an 80% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2050.
A 20% reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases by 2020 will allow (...) (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Madam President, the debate here has been very interesting, and it seems that the European Parliament is very committed to support for the climate conference in Copenhagen.
I myself would also like to stress how important forest policy and forests are, as forests are carbon sinks which absorb carbon dioxide.
Here, the matter of income distribution is extremely important, because we cannot make the poor people in Europe pay the bill either. (DE) Madam President, I would like to encourage the head of negotiations for Copenhagen to fight for a successful outcome.
The ambitious targets are good and, ultimately, the efforts that we are making today will also represent a contribution to tomorrow with a view to the consequences and the future damage in the form of migration, damage to coastal areas or also, perhaps, in the form of stable regions becoming more unstable as a result of climate change.
Yet if other States and, in particular, the really major States, do not pull in the same direction, we should only do so on a proportional basis.
Madam President, I would genuinely like to thank Parliament for a long and intensive debate and also for the strong and broad commitment that has become apparent during the debate.
We have reduced them by half of what we need to achieve, whatever happens, by 2020 and by a third if we aim for what we all hope will be the outcome of the Copenhagen agreement, which is to say, a 30% reduction in emissions on the EU's part.
That is why we have been so strongly committed to ensuring that the Copenhagen process leads to this legally binding agreement.
On the contrary, large green investments are also part of the economic changes, in other words, the move towards a 'greener' economy, which will also lead countries, both rich and poor, out of the economic crisis.
Some people wonder why we should invest in the clean development mechanism (CDM), but that is nevertheless precisely what it is all about, namely that the polluter must pay for green investments in developing countries.
I think that is a good thing and it is important, but we must also reform these rules so that the environmental effects are even greater and clearer and so that we can be even more certain that this also reaches those who are poorest.
The concern that there has been must therefore be transformed into even greater commitment to making the agreement a reality.
Finally, I think that it should be said loud and clear that if an agreement in Copenhagen is not sufficient to allow the EU to go up to 30%, in other words, if we get such a watered-down result that the EU, for reasons of propriety, quite simply cannot go up to 30%, then it will have been a failure.
Therefore, it should also be said loud and clear that there is something worse than no agreement and that is a poor agreement.
That is why the EU has set the bar so high.
That is also why Parliament's commitment and that of the whole of the EU is so important.
Madam President, this was a very interesting debate with some exceptional and constructive interventions.
Without doubt, an organisation such as this is needed, so that there is an environmental organisation at international level which will promote environmental issues in the same way as economic or social issues and which will also provide better coordination of international environmental agreements.
I am happy about the performance of the European Union, because the 15 countries which have the collective objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 8% in the period 2008-2012 will achieve their target, but the EU of the 27, with the 10 new countries which have a target and Cyprus and Malta which do not have, will also achieve the target.
I shall quote just one statistic: between 1990 and 2007, the period for which we have statistics, economic growth was 44% and the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions was 5% for the 15 countries and 9% for the 27.
Of course, the forecasts are that, by 2012, we shall have well exceeded the target, which will make it easier to achieve the target of a 30% reduction by 2020.
It should be noted that, in 2008, we also had a significant reduction of 1.6% in greenhouse gases in the European Union, alongside continuing economic growth, and it was only in the last part of 2008 that we were hit by the economic crisis, which also had an impact on the issue of greenhouse gases.
Let us try, in the time we have left, to make use of these means in the most effective way possible.
There is broad consensus on the need for efforts to be made on a global scale in order to achieve the 2째 Celsius target.
There is a general conviction that the basic foundations of a climate agreement for the period after 2012 will and must be laid in Copenhagen.
These foundations are mainly ambitious commitments to reduce emissions on the part of developed countries, including the United States, adequate measures by developed countries to reduce their increase in emissions and financial assistance to developing countries to moderate their emissions and adapt to climate change.
What we shall need to achieve in Copenhagen is a substantial agreement on all elements of the Bali action plan.
All these elements need to be agreed in Copenhagen on a binding basis and immediately afterwards, in the next three to six months at the latest, the legalities will need to be processed, so that we have the binding agreement the European Union has been seeking and which will safeguard the target of limiting the greenhouse effect to 2째 Celsius.
I consider it goes without saying that the members of the European Parliament will assist in efforts made over these days, especially at the crucial meetings in Copenhagen, and I should like to thank you for that and, once again, for all the efforts you have made.
The European Union must continue to play a leading role and to speak with one voice on environmental issues.
Taking decisive steps and changing the global model of energy use - as Portugal and the Azores have already done - is vitally important, along with investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
Flooding from the River Barrow, the second longest river in Ireland, has meant much of Carlow has been under water for over four days!
No matter what happens at the UN climate conference in less than two weeks in Copenhagen, extreme weather conditions, like the flooding in Ireland, will become more frequent.
We must build up our resilience to the effects of climate change.
A political agreement in Copenhagen is crucial, but it needs to be global.
The EU should continue to lead by example in combating climate change.
We must also send a clear signal to emerging industries in Asia.
China and India cannot be exempted of all responsibility when they produce a large percentage of global emissions while our industries are going to great lengths to reduce their emissions.
There are over 6 billion of us, and what was once an extreme phenomenon and went unnoticed is, today, evident.
Therefore, for humanitarian and social reasons, the most important matter is not to combat the highly unlikely causes of climate change, but to combat the results of climate change.
For example, in my country, security of water supply is already an important matter.
Global warming currently poses two major problems to humankind: on the one hand, the need to cut greenhouse gas emissions dramatically and, on the other hand, the need to adapt to the effects of climate change.
Bearing in mind that we are dealing with a global phenomenon and that the EU is responsible for only 10% of the emissions produced by greenhouse gases worldwide, it is important that we reach a mandatory, global legal agreement in Copenhagen in two weeks' time.
In order to adapt to the effects of climate change, we need a funding mechanism, providing exact figures for the sums which need to be invested in green technologies which create new jobs, something which is so necessary during this crisis period.
The aim of the international climate change conference which begins in Copenhagen on 7 December is to establish a post-Kyoto agreement which will make the countries of the world reduce polluting emissions.
However, these efforts must be coordinated with the efforts of all developed or developing countries.
The development of an eco-efficient global economy will generate new investments, create new jobs and raise living standards.
