EC-Russia short-stay visa agreement - EC-Russia readmission agreement (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mrs da Assunção Esteves, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the European Community and the Russian Federation on the facilitation of issuance of short-stay visas - C6-0169/2006 -, and the report by Mrs da Assunção Esteves, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the European Community and the Russian Federation on readmission - C6-0168/2006 -.
The Commission has always looked to the European Parliament as an ally in its promotion of the principles of democracy and the universality of human rights in our relations with partner countries such as Russia.
Since the beginning, the Commission has been and will continue to emphasise to the Russian authorities that our strategic partnership is based on common values which underpin EU-Russia relations as enshrined in the partnership and cooperation agreement and in the four Common Spaces roadmaps.
In the case of asylum applications at the border, the principle of non refoulement has in particular to be fully respected by Member States in accordance with Article 18 of the Agreement.
Now migration policy and movement of people have become strategic priorities for the EU's external relations in general and with Russia in particular.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (LT) I would like to talk about the readmission agreement between the European Union and Russia; although in fact, both agreements - on readmission and on simplification of the issuing procedures of short term visas - are being considered together.
The Commission has committed itself to guaranteeing reciprocity in the implementation of the agreement on visas, equal treatment regarding registration procedures and free movement within Russia.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the right to travel within Europe is an issue of absolutely fundamental importance to our lives.
Only those who already have study places would experience some limited relaxation of visa requirements, and, in such cases, visits could not, in any case, exceed 90 days.
The Commission and the Council have put forward a declaration that is partially in keeping with Parliament's wishes.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the agreements currently being debated are a very important step towards a closer relationship between the European Union and Russia, especially as their adoption will make it significantly easier for people to cross the border.
The new law on migration registration of foreign nationals and stateless persons in the Russian Federation entered into force recently, on 15 January of this year.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, nationals of both the EU countries and Russia are required to have visas to travel.
The reports by the parliamentary committees condemn the situation regarding the rule of law - its absence, in fact - in Russia.
Our report of May 2005 on relations between the European Union and Russia stressed that the European Parliament was repeating its call on Russia to ratify the border agreement with Estonia and to sign and ratify the border agreement with Latvia without delay.
At the moment there is no charge for visas, but the agreement, which is supposed to make things easier for them, will actually impose the hardship of a EUR 35 charge for a visa.
The European Parliament needs to be consulted before the conclusion of the agreement, as laid down in paragraph 3 of that article.
In order to support democracy, 16 years ago the European Union and the United States adopted an approach that treated Russia as a promising young country.
