Explanations of vote The present fisheries agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde sets out the fisheries opportunities for the Community fishing fleets for 2006 to 2011.
We therefore voted in favour of this report.
On the other hand, the cost to shipowners has gone up from EUR 25 to EUR 35 per tonne of tuna caught in seiners and longliners.
Sinn Féin supports the upwards harmonisation of human rights standards in Europe and accordingly supports the principle of creating an Agency for Fundamental Rights.
We do have concerns however about the possible duplication of roles given the established role of the Council of Europe in these matters.
Taxpayers in the European Union have the right to expect parliamentarians to have a clear understanding of the costs of establishing new European agencies.
Although I am in favour of Bulgaria's accession to the Union in principle, I abstained on this report.
I support the idea that Bulgaria should be able to join the EU, but I do not believe at this point in time either that they are really ready for membership or that the Union is ready to receive them.
Ahead of Bulgaria's accession, scheduled for 1 January 2007, the majority in Parliament has adopted a report which, for the umpteenth time, lists the obligations that Bulgaria must meet; it criticises, congratulates, urges, and has the cheek to demand that Bulgaria do what other Member States fail to do.
A majority in this House decided today that Bulgaria can join the EU in 32 days' time.
I voted for the Van Orden Report.
I was pleased Parliament resisted attempts to water down the Bulgarian obligation to close units 3 and 4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Station.
in writing. (DE) The fact that I reject the report on Bulgaria has nothing to do with any refusal on my part to acknowledge that the country belongs to the European community of states or to rejoice in the imminent arrival of new Members of this House.
What it does have to do with is the fact that the report is, in my view, seriously flawed as regards the way in which it discusses nuclear power or its too muted calls to the Commission for the safeguard clauses to be carefully reviewed and, if necessary, applied in good time. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor very briefly in order to say that I voted in favour of the Moscovici report because I believe that Romania should become a full member of the European Union, as it has taken some huge steps in the right direction.
Although I am in favour of Romania's accession to the Union in principle, I abstained on this report.
I support the idea that Romania should be able to join the EU, but I do not believe at this point in time either that they are really ready for membership or that the Union is really ready to receive them.
A majority in this House decided today that Romania can join the EU in 32 days' time.
It appears that postponement, as a result of which Romania was not allowed to join the EU on 1 May 2004 together with the ten other states, is not enough to get that country to comply with the original expectations.
We feel that those in favour underestimate how negatively this enlargement will be experienced in Member States where people will be inconvenienced by it and how unfavourable this can turn out to be for the further admission of newcomers.
On 15 December 2004, we voted in favour of the principle that Romania and Bulgaria can be admitted in future, but today, we have reached the conclusion that admission in 2007 is not justified.
I voted in favour of this report on the accession of Romania.
in writing. (SV) I have chosen to vote against the report because Romania, in particular, cannot be regarded as fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria.
The sensible thing would instead have been to have postponed accession until at least 2008 in order to make sure that the reforms were continuing and reaching an acceptable level.
I must say that, although I am pleased with the report and with the progress made by Romania regarding the accession protocol, I, like so many other Members of this Parliament, am deeply dissatisfied regarding the issue of the moratorium on international adoptions, in which around 1 200 children are embroiled.
In view of the multiple documented instances of both countries' tardiness in complying with the accession criteria, particularly in relation to the combating of corruption and the presence of a functioning system of justice, I think it indefensible that the safeguard clauses for which provision has been made are not automatically being invoked with effect from 1 January 2007 in respect of the economy, the internal market, justice and home affairs.
in writing. (SV) The June List has pointed out on many occasions that it is very important indeed that the EU be enlarged but that this should only happen once the candidate countries are ready for membership, that is to say once they have fulfilled all the accession criteria.
According to the accession treaties, the individual Member States are, however, entitled to introduce transitional rules in this area for a limited period, and that entitlement must be respected.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports this resolution and would like to echo the congratulations and welcome given to both Bulgaria and Romania ahead of accession on 1 January 2007, whilst underlining the importance of adhering to commitments made in the Accession Treaty.
This includes the closure of plants 3 and 4 of Kozloduy Nuclear Power Station before the end of 2006.
I voted against the accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
This is why today, I will once again be voting against the Moscovici and Van Orden reports.
I really do think it cause for shame that the Commission's statement should, as soon as today, be called into question or be made subject to an interpretation that actually does raise the question as to why, if what Mr Busquin said is indeed the case, the Commission made the statement in the first place?
I believe, then, that, far from today being a black day, we have to once more spell out the fact that the Commission's statement can be interpreted to mean only that not only the use of embryos, but also their harvesting - and in particular the destruction that accompanies such harvesting - shall not be supported by means of European funds.
I will therefore vote against amendments, such as Amendment 49 tabled by Kathy Sinnott and others, which endanger embryonic stem cell research.
I welcome this report.
In a vote after discussion on many occasions, a big majority of the Group supported Amendment 319 by Niebler and others, who sought to fix a deadline.
We regret that the European Parliament did not support this amendment, especially because only 19 more votes were needed for the necessary majority.
The EPP-ED accepts that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, Amendment 319 cannot be tabled for the second reading.
In a vote after discussion on many occasions, a big majority of the Group supported Amendment 319 by Niebler and others, who sought to fix a deadline.
We regret that the European Parliament did not support this amendment, especially because only 19 votes more were needed for the necessary majority.
The EPP-ED accepts that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, Amendment 319 cannot be tabled for the second reading.
We welcome the declaration of the Commission on Article 6 and we ask the Commission and the regulatory committee to bear in mind that almost 50% of the European Parliament voted for a more limited approach in this sensitive area.
in writing. - (FR) I have today voted in favour of the Busquin report on the rules for participation in the Seventh Framework Programme on Research and Development.
I believe, however, that we have missed a good opportunity to establish a very clear distinction between fireworks, used in public celebrations or displays, in theatres, in cinema etc., and percussion pistons, which are used in toys, in airbags in vehicles and even in safety belts.
I voted for this report and welcome the moves towards improving the safety of fireworks and their use.
in writing. (SV) We do not share the rapporteur's view that it is important to create a European system of social protection statistics at EU level.
in writing. (DA) In protest against the Euratom treaty, I am voting against all the reports on revising the framework programmes for research and development within the nuclear area.
Instead, the 50th anniversary of the Euratom treaty should be used as an opportunity for a revision designed to ensure that it is only those countries that wish to participate that are party to Article 43 of the Treaty of Nice, relating to enhanced cooperation.
in writing. (SV) We would have voted against Amendments 11, 20 and 21 if they had not been included in the block vote.
The British Socialist delegation (EPLP) voted in favour of the Cavada report and the EP's resolution on the progress made in the EU towards the area of freedom, security and justice (AFSJ) (Articles 2 and 39 of the EU Treaty) because we support any actions to improve the transparency and effectiveness of the EU institutions and their capacity to deliver for our citizens in the field of Justice and Home Affairs.
Whilst we welcome the EP's demand on the importance of launching a wide debate on how to improve our effectiveness in this field, both procedurally and in practice, we nevertheless recognise and respect the significance for Member States in Council of agreeing how best to take this agenda forward.
This debate should involve national parliaments and the European Parliament as well as the Member States in Council and the Commission.
in writing. (SV) We regret the fact that it has not been possible for the Constitution to enter into force and that, because of this, there is no codecision making in the very significant and far-reaching area of justice and home affairs.
I believe that it would be desirable for SIS II to be up and running as soon as possible and I feel that the Commission should notify Parliament of any delays that occur and the reasons behind those delays.
in writing. (SV) The global fight against HIV/AIDS is a very pressing issue, requiring a comprehensive international commitment.
We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the resolution as a whole and of those amendments advocating reproductive health care.
The states in which there is a health system must orientate themselves towards the creation of permanent public infrastructures and services at all stages, with suitable scientific personnel and primary health care as the main objective.
They can also be supported by international financing, with management responsibilities vested in international health organisations, and cooperation and assistance can be established at scientific and practical level globally between nations.
I voted in favour of this Resolution on the fight against AIDS.
It is relentless in its global spread, infecting over 450 people every hour, totalling more than 4 million people per year.
In 2005, 40 million people were living with HIV, approximately 95% of them in developing countries, placing an impossible burden on the health system and economy in general.
in writing. - (FR) AIDS is back with a vengeance.
It was for this reason that I co-signed the draft resolution on AIDS.
Thankfully, the death rate due to other infectious diseases should, meanwhile, decrease. - (LT) In voting today, I endorsed the most important provisions of the Report on the situation of disabled people in the enlarged European Union: the European Action Plan 2006-2007.
It is very important that work should also be available to people with mental disability or people with multiple disabilities, in accordance with their capacities.
in writing. - (EL) The ΕU is deliberately concealing the class-based causes of the problems of people with disabilities.
They must step up their fight against the policy of capital.
Disabled people have the right to be in a position where they can make the same individual choices and have the same control in their everyday life as non-disabled people.
The main consequence of these physical barriers is higher levels of unemployment among these workers.
I am therefore in favour of specific actions at both EU and national level aimed at targeting support to services encouraging the integration into society, education, vocational training and the labour market of people with disabilities.
Against this backdrop, I support this report, as I am in favour for example of promoting access for the disabled to the Internet, and in particular to the websites of public institutions.
Hence our vote against the report.
in writing. - (FR) What purpose is served by Mrs del Castillo Vera's report?
Some of these are very useful, such as promoting small and medium-sized enterprises or streamlining bureaucracy, but are never put into practice in Community legislation.
in writing. (PT) I supported this excellent report, which offers a way for the EU to deal successfully with competition on the world market.
The EU can derive benefits in tackling international competition from fostering a culture of innovation and research.
