Environmental quality standards in the field of water policy (debate) The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by Anne Laperrouze, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending Directives 82/176/EEC, 83/513/EEC, 84/156/EEC, 84/491/EEC, 86/280/EEC and 2000/60/EC (11486/3/2007 - C6-0055/2008 -.
For example, the transitional areas of exceedance - redefined as mixing zones - are no longer simply zones that are established but now serve as a tool for underlining a problem, and it follows that it is up to the Member States to describe the corrective measures.
The compromise clearly stipulates that on the basis of scientific data the Commission will have 24 months to pronounce on the final classification and to propose the relevant limit values.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are a discussing one of the most crucial challenges of environmental policy: the protection of our water resources for our own benefit and that of future generations.
As you will remember, in the Water Framework Directive, the main legislative instrument for EU policy on the protection of water, allowance was made for further legislation being necessary on two issues: EU quality standards for groundwater and EU quality standards for priority substances in surface water.
The Groundwater Directive was approved at the end of 2006 by means of the conciliation procedure.
Today the European Parliament is to decide at second reading on the proposed directive on environmental quality standards for priority substances in surface water.
The directive lays down harmonised quality standards for the 33 listed substances, so that the basic concept of good water quality is expressed in fixed numerical values based on the best available scientific data and knowledge.
The Commission is determined to keep a close eye on the enforcement of this directive and the Water Framework Directive.
In addition to emission controls under the directives on urban waste-water treatment, pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources, and integrated pollution prevention and control (directives that were already in force when the Water Framework Directive was approved in 2000), more than 30 Community legislative instruments have in the meantime been enacted or proposed by the Commission.
The proposed directive - and I will not go over all the ground that Mrs Laperrouze has covered, but I have to add some of my own comments - a daughter directive to the Water Framework Directive - ensures the final piece of legislation for good-quality water for different Member States.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me in my turn thank Mrs Laperrouze and all the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the Slovenian Presidency, for the work they have done.
This is the last daughter directive under the framework directive on water, and it was very important for us to reach a compromise that represents genuine progress in terms of our ambition to combat pollution, and in particular the chemical pollution of water.
Mme Laperrouze has listed all the points on which we have made progress.
Of course, as ever with compromises, we would have preferred to achieve more, but I believe we have secured a good basis.
We will ensure that Parliament remains vigilant, and I thank the Commissioner for pointing out that alongside the provisions in the compromise on which we will be voting, the Commission wanted to provide information on the implementation of the framework directive on water and, if necessary and if any delays build up in the Member States or any doubts need to be raised, to present complementary measures to ensure that we do indeed achieve environmentally acceptable water in 2015, in line with our vote in 2000.
The laws we have put in place are clear in this instance.
Mr President, I should also like to thank Mrs Laperrouze for her friendly, obliging cooperation.
The weakness of the present report is that there is no real political will to scrutinise any more substances.
We have ended up with a number of substances that are in all likelihood extremely hazardous, yet the Commission balks at finally banning them.
I would also like to speak once again of the thousands of tonnes of outdated pesticides that are systematically poisoning our water and have already reached depths of 1 000 metres.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) The intention of this directive was to lay down environmental quality standards for a number of hazardous chemicals and thereby protect watercourses from chemicals and other harmful substances.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze, for all her work in the negotiations with the Council.
It may be that our goal could be achieved more quickly but, if we compare Europe with other parts of the world, we can claim to have attained a very high standard, and that standard must be maintained and further improved.
It was not possible to achieve any more. (NL) Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze, for her work, which has led to a satisfactory agreement at second reading.
The European Parliament has successfully pressed for a number of improvements.
I also support the question that Mr Blokland put to Commissioner Dimas on discharge points and drinking water collection points in mixed zones.
It is very regrettable that the momentum imparted by the European Parliament at first reading to the protection of our water resources has been dissipated by the doubling of the list of hazardous substances subject to control and the obligation imposed on EU Member States to reduce their pollutant emissions.
Our demand, then, is that no pesticides that feature on the list of priority hazardous substances should be authorised.
Amendment 26 points out the Commission's obligation to present a detailed report on the situation regarding pollution originating from third countries, one year after the date of entry into force of the Directive.
The directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy is now the last major daughter instrument to the Water Framework Directive.
The list of priority hazardous substances must be constantly reviewed and checked without delay.
The Commission's failure to act prompted us in Parliament to take action and propose a second list - a list containing substances that require checking on the basis of the latest findings.
Article 7 of the Water Framework Directive has already laid down the obligations for drinking water, and this compromise does not alter the relevant procedures and provisions.
I should like to point out that Member States must report their compliance with Article 15 of the Water Framework Directive and the measures they are taking to reduce the spread of mixing zones, as well as the international coordination on defining mixing zones.
To conclude, the Commission is in the happy position of expressing full support for the compromise package in order to achieve an agreement on this directive at second reading.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contribution to this debate.
At first reading we had proposed 33 + 28 substances in total, i.e. 61 analysed substances.
At second reading, we have a total of 33 + 13, i.e. 46, but we must point out that these are hazardous substances of particular concern that should no longer occur in river waters today.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 17 June 2008.
