Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Mr President, the new role of Parliament after the Treaty of Lisbon will be very important, and I hope that Parliament will seize the opportunities it is given to the best of its ability.
As a member of an ethnic minority traditionally present in the European Union, I am particularly pleased that the rights of ethnic minorities are mentioned as individual rights for the first time in Article 2.
I think it is very important that we recognise, when it comes to the Lisbon Treaty, that it has not been ratified yet, and we should not behave as if it has been ratified.
It is a disgrace that a country that gave us Winston Churchill has sent these people to this Parliament to put their own narrow interests before the interests of the British people and the interests of Europe.
He threw Winston Churchill at me and said it was a disgrace for the party of Churchill to be sending to Strasbourg people like me.
I know that she is to leave Parliament and that this was her last report for us in the European Parliament, at least for a while.
It is very important that the audiovisual component of the MEDIA Mundus programme is extended to make it accessible for third countries as well, including the African states.
The citizens of Moldova are expecting from the European Union exactly what the citizens of Eastern Europe were expecting from the West before 1989. (LT) I voted for the resolution on the situation in Moldova, because on 5 April I was one of the international observers who monitored the parliamentary elections in that country.
We all witnessed the unrest which occurred after the elections in Moldova, but one month on from the elections, I think that it is particularly important to emphasise once more that relations between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova must continue to be developed and that we want this as we strive for greater European stability, security and well-being, and as we strive for new dividing lines.
However, the European Union's cooperation with Moldova must go hand in hand with a genuine and clear obligation on the part of Moldova's governing institutions to strive for democracy and to honour human rights. (LT) I am really delighted with the result of the vote on the resolution on the report about the global human rights situation in 2008.
I therefore congratulate Parliament on adopting this document, an important document on the global human rights situation last year, which underlines the most important problems - capital punishment, torture, brutal, inhumane behaviour, the situation of human rights defenders, the situation of women's and children's rights and many other matters. - (DE) Mr President, I am very grateful to this House for rejecting the scandalous attack on the Pope by the Liberals.
I leave this place today, hopefully to go back to my Member State Parliament, the House of Commons, to represent people in Woodford Halse, Daventry, Long Buckby, Guilsborough, Brixworth, Earls Barton and elsewhere across the constituency known as Daventry.
Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on the Brok report: firstly, as a tribute to the work that Mr Brok has done in this institution; secondly, to show my support for the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, but, more importantly, to urge my Government, when the Lisbon Treaty is ratified and when we have an extra seat coming to the United Kingdom, to allocate that seat to the people of Gibraltar.
in writing. - British Conservative MEPs fully support a policy of equal opportunity and non-discrimination of women in all areas of public and commercial life.
Parliament voted today on a report on its new role and responsibilities in implementing the Treaty of Lisbon.
We have chosen to vote in favour of this report because the European Parliament needs to prepare itself to be able to implement the changes that will occur in connection with its work if the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force.
This report presents a detailed analysis of the new powers of the European Parliament in light of the Treaty of Lisbon, particularly the new codecision powers, new budgetary powers, new consent procedure, new powers of scrutiny, new rights to be informed and new rights of citizens.
The same people who, ignoring what has been said (like the Portuguese Socialist Party and the Portuguese Social Democratic Party), have denied their peoples a debate and popular consultation by means of a referendum on the proposed Treaty of Lisbon, and who only respect the popular will when it is in line with their own, are now asking the people in each EU Member State to place their trust in them and vote for them in the imminent elections to the European Parliament ...
The Treaty of Lisbon, which is 96 per cent identical to the draft Constitutional Treaty, was rejected in the referendum in Ireland.
I have voted against the draft report.
For this reason, and many others, I am pleased that British Conservatives will be part of a new political group in the next parliament, dedicated to reforming the EU and challenging the prevailing orthodoxy of ever-closer union which has proved so unpopular and caused so much damage in my region of North-East England.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which is 96 per cent identical to the draft Constitutional Treaty, was rejected in the referendum in Ireland.
in writing. - UK Conservatives have voted against the asylum package as, while we believe in cooperation in this area, we do not believe in a communitarised approach to asylum and immigration policy.
That means not only standardising minimum reception conditions among all the Member States but also providing support for asylum seekers to settle in huge numbers.
in writing. - The establishment of this office is yet another step towards a common EU asylum and immigration policy, which is a policy I totally reject.
Most unacceptable of all, though, is the Lambert report, which creates a European 'support' office that will be able to distribute asylum seekers among the Member States as it pleases.
I voted for the Zwiefka report as I believe it is very important to establish a procedure allowing Member States to negotiate international agreements on matters falling within the exclusive competence of the Community, in cases in which the Community has decided not to exercise its competence.
I feel that it is very important that this regulation be negotiated as quickly as possible, as it is in the interests not only of Portuguese citizens but also of all citizens in the rest of Europe.
The relationships that have developed between the audiovisual industries of the EU Member States and those of third countries must continue and must be strengthened in the interest not only of professionals but also of consumers.
The audiovisual cooperation programme MEDIA Mundus, as adopted today by the European Parliament, and which I support, comes under this objective.
in writing. - I voted against the Costa report on airport slots, in order to highlight the complete lack of consultation with airport authorities, the lack of debate with MEPs and the rushed nature of the legislation.
Given the close ties that Portugal has with certain countries, particularly the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, and the high number of Portuguese migrants in various countries, it is very important, in terms of family law, that Portugal be able to speed up recognition of the rights of Portuguese citizens in these countries by concluding or revising bilateral agreements.
Although I have cited the example of Portugal, I feel it is equally important for all EU citizens that this regulation be negotiated as quickly as possible.
In exceptional cases, however, the EU may authorise the Member State to enter into bilateral agreements: if the Community has no interest in agreements with the third country, if the individual Member State has a particular interest in the agreement and the agreement does not negatively impact Community law.
I have therefore voted against the report.
The dramatic events of 5, 7 and 8 April on the streets of Chişinău after the elections show that society, and especially young people, wants change and speedy unification with the European Union.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the situation in the Republic of Moldova.
As a member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I support the fact that the European Union continues to give the Republic of Moldova all the support it requires to enable it to fulfil its European destiny, in line with the aspirations of its people.
I believe that Romania, as a European Union Member State neighbouring the Republic of Moldova, must contribute, under the terms and on the basis of an agreement promoting cooperation, good neighbourliness and mutual respect, to the economic and social development of this country.
Although I recognise the strategic importance of this region to the EU, I believe that continued engagement on the EU's part must be matched by advances in human rights and democratisation in Central Asia.
in writing. - This report on the Annual Report on Human Rights 2008 evaluates the state of human rights actions around the world and calls for improvements in some key areas.
This report also includes the issue of women's rights and shows that there is a gap which must be filled in the development of the EU's specific actions and policies in favour of women's human rights.
You only have to look at the contents of the resolution on the situation in Palestine to see the extent to which it is an unacceptable exercise in hypocrisy and cynicism by a majority in Parliament with regard to human rights (in the world).
The resolution does not have a single word of condemnation for Israel's cruel aggression towards the Palestinian people, which nothing can justify.
Once again we say: you can count on us to defend human rights, but do not count on us for exercises in hypocrisy.
I voted for adoption of the Obiols i Germà report on Human Rights in the World 2008 and the European Union's policy on the matter.
I voted in favour because the scandalous amendment attacking Pope Benedict XVI had been rejected.
The Catholic Church and many other confessions are our allies in the fight to ensure respect for human dignity.
It is a pity that at the end of this term some MEPs have become entangled in such an embarrassing affair.
The EU must not conduct a common foreign policy because such a development risks taking away from people their opportunity to hold their elected politicians accountable for their actions in their relations with foreign countries.
I recognise the importance of the resolution's aim of improving the human rights situation in a number of vulnerable countries.
in writing. - I take issue with amendment 2, which criticized the Roman Catholic Church and its leader Pope Benedict for his views on the use of condoms, but wisely the House rejected this amendment.
in writing. - I am the strongest supporter of genuine human rights and therefore have no difficulty with many aspects of this report.
The idea that individual Member States should surrender their national prerogative on matters of human rights to the European Union, whether in the forum of the United Nations or elsewhere, is totally unacceptable.
Articles 84 and 96 of the report deal with the human rights situation in Cuba.
As a mark of support, a solidarity march for the Women in White and their husbands was held in Bratislava on 28 April 2009.
Of the 75 activists imprisoned six years ago, whose cause has been backed by organisations including the EU, 54 remain behind bars.
I feel I have to mention Amendment 2, which sharply criticises Pope Benedict XVI.
in writing. - UK Conservatives believe that, while cross-border cooperation in criminal justice is important, the report seeks to create a common justice area at an EU level, which would significantly compromise the traditions of those countries which base their legal system on common law.
in writing. - Criminal justice is rightly the responsibility of EU Member States.
We have chosen to vote in favour of this report because the European Parliament needs to prepare itself to be able to implement the changes that will occur in connection with its work if the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force.
I voted for the report on the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon on the development of the institutional balance of the European Union.
The possible entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon by the end of 2009 calls for a political agreement between the Council and the European Parliament in order to ensure that the procedure for the choice of the next President of the Commission and for the nomination of the future Commission will, in any case, respect the substance of the new powers that the Treaty of Lisbon assigns to the European Parliament on this issue.
Instead of burying the Lisbon Treaty once and for all, the EP is again adopting a resolution which glorifies the anti-democratic institutional balance of the European Union proposed in the resolution, concealing the fact that, among many other examples, this: transfers sovereign powers from the Portuguese people to the EU's supranational institutions, dominated by the major powers, an example of which is the management of the marine biological resources in our Exclusive Economic Zone; extends the application of the majority rule in decision-making, which will reinforce the domination of the major powers and prevent Portugal from vetoing decisions that go against the national interest; increases the removal of authority from the national democratic institutions (the only ones which directly result from the democratic will of the people), an example of which is the transfer of powers from the national parliaments, which are losing the power to make decisions in fundamental areas and which are becoming a kind of advisory body without the right to veto Community decisions that go against national interests.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which is 96 per cent identical to the draft Constitutional Treaty, was rejected in the referendum in Ireland.
It is worth noting that in paragraph 4 of Mr Dehaene's report it is stated (quote): 'Welcomes the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon stipulates that the European Council may by unanimity, and with the consent of the European Parliament, provided there is no opposition by a national parliament, extend qualified majority decision-making and the ordinary legislative procedure to areas in which they do not yet apply'.
Parliament voted today on a report on the development of the relations between the European Parliament and national parliaments under the Treaty of Lisbon.
We have chosen to vote in favour of this report because the European Parliament needs to prepare itself to be able to implement the changes that will occur in connection with its work if the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force.
The EP is hiding the fact that, with regard to the supposed enhancement of the role of the national parliaments in the decision-making process, what is actually happening with the Treaty of Lisbon is that these parliaments are losing much more than they are (falsely) gaining, bearing in mind the extensive transfer of powers to the institutions of the European Union.
The Treaty of Lisbon, which is 96 per cent identical to the draft Constitutional Treaty, was rejected by the referendum in Ireland.
This Convention has been heavily criticised for having been entirely undemocratic and controlled from the top by its chairman Giscard d'Estaing.
We have chosen to vote in favour of this report because the European Parliament needs to prepare itself to be able to implement the changes that will occur in connection with its work if the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force.
I voted for the report on the implementation of the citizens' initiative.
What is more, following the Irish rejection of this federalist, neoliberal and militaristic draft Treaty, they are doing everything they can to force another referendum to be held in that country (as many times as necessary until the Irish people say 'yes').
The Treaty of Lisbon, which is 96 per cent identical to the draft Constitutional Treaty, was rejected by the referendum in Ireland.
