Madam President, I should like first of all to express my support for those who were affected by the recent forest fires.
This summer, the Community made an important contribution towards putting out the many difficult forest fires which broke out in various Member States.
This pilot programme substantially reinforced the Community Mechanism for Civil Protection and, by extension, the facility to assist countries hit by natural disasters.
Huge efforts have been made in this direction to create an independent intervention force to fight forest fires and, as I said, the support of the European Parliament was a decisive factor.
It allowed us to secure funds to charter fire-fighting aircraft and, for the first time this summer, over the period from 1 June to 30 September, we set up and commissioned an airborne fire-fighting force under the supervision of the European Commission, the EU forest fire tactical reserve, whose aircraft were involved in fire-fighting operations in various countries.
I consider that there is now an urgent need to create an independent capacity to deal with natural disasters at Community level.
Also, there are arguments that the existence of a European fire-fighting force would give a false sense of security to many national authorities, which might neglect the necessary investment required in human resources, in fire-fighting resources and, more importantly, in the prevention of fires and other natural disasters.
Apart from these reactions, there are a number of practical problems, problems of coordination, especially on the question of forest fires.
In any event, all these issues will be analysed in a report submitted by the European Commission for debate by the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament on the operation of the pilot programme this summer.
Everyone knows how important intervention was both in the case of the tsunami and during hurricane Katrina.
Madam President, every year, 400 000 hectares of forest are destroyed in southern Europe.
For 30 to 40 years at least, we shall live, whatever we do from the point of view of reducing greenhouse gases, with a worsening climate which, especially in the south of Europe, where forests are vulnerable, will be a negative experience.
The decision proposed by the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is based on these findings and illustrates, among other things, the urgent need for an effective European rapid response force, as mentioned by Commissioner Dimas and proposed in the Barnier report.
It illustrates the need for flexible and immediate mobilisation of the resources of the European Solidarity Fund, the need to deal with forest fires in southern Europe as a priority under the EU action plan currently being processed in order to adapt to climate change, and the need for the Commission proposal on a European policy to deal with natural disasters to be submitted as quickly as possible.
For my country, and especially for the citizens affected, it is important that this decision be approved by the European Parliament.
For at least six years, we have been talking about a common European civil protection force.
I would also like to say that I wanted to begin my speech by remembering the four firemen who died in June in Horta de Sant Joan, Tarragona, and paying my respects to their families and colleagues.
It is therefore important that we focus more on prevention, protection and on prompt risk management, at European level, through coordinated cooperation.
Within this framework, we must safeguard the application of a sustainable common European forest policy and ensure that funds from the Cohesion Fund, the Regional Development Fund and the Solidarity Fund which are earmarked for risk prevention and management and for the restoration of affected areas are, in fact, used in a rational and sustainable manner.
Within this framework, we are tabling a resolution today before the European Parliament, in the hope that we shall make headway, in terms of joint action and cooperation by the Member States, towards real prevention and management of natural disasters and more effective use of European Union funds for this purpose.
Climate change can be used to explain the disasters which have occurred in southern Europe to a degree.
However, there are also shortcomings in national policies and in the policy of the European Union, inasmuch as climate change has not been properly integrated into the environmental strategy.
I should also like to add that I am delighted to see that all the MEPs from the Greek parties and the Spanish party have responded to our call for a joint presence in the European Parliament and joint efforts to plan a European strategy to deal with natural disasters.
So you were quite right to propose that we plan this strategy to prevent and deal with natural disasters.
The Commissioner for the Environment urgently needs to develop and support this unit in his recommendation on this matter, both to the Commission and to the Council.
With climate change as the beginning and fires and floods as the result, the Commission should place particular emphasis at the Copenhagen conference on preparing a strategy to prevent and deal with natural disasters, determine the budget needed to cover the prevention and avoidance of natural disasters and therefore strengthen this exemplary EU forest fire tactical reserve unit.
We expect to see the European strategy to prevent and deal with natural disasters, as a top priority, very high up on the agenda for the Copenhagen conference. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what took place in Greece this summer should never be allowed to repeat itself in Europe again.
In such cases, it is also interesting to do something yourself and if this is seen as desirable, I can offer to carry out a pilot project with our Greek friends on the establishment of a voluntary fire brigade in a selected region or municipality.
I presented this report on 9 May 2006.
One day we can expect a tsunami in the Mediterranean such as the one at the start of the 20th century that totally destroyed the city of Messina.
I believe that we must go further.
If there are not 27 of us to make up this civil protection force, let us start with 12 or 15 of us.
To be fair, the European civil protection mechanism is working better, and several Member States have made great efforts and invested heavily in fire prevention and rapid response fire fighting.
The Barnier document and others submitted by Parliament have already been mentioned here.
On 23 July, in Corsica, the heat was exceptional: 44 degrees, very dry air and a very strong sirocco wind.
Let us hope that the large groups, and Mr Barnier's Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in particular, will agree to help us secure the adoption of this amendment. (EL) Madam President, the fires are a deeply political problem which appears in a very acute form in countries such as Portugal, Spain, France, Italy and Greece, with painful consequences for both the people and the environment.
The first tragic consequences of this policy were seen in Evia on 12 September 2009 - just a few days ago - with the catastrophic floods which swept through fire-ravaged Evia.
It is important that the management of this instrument be as flexible as possible, so that it can address problems that change from one day to the next.
Irrespective of the responsibilities that may exist in some Member States or in some autonomous regions, it is certain that Parliament must clearly call on the Commission to act swiftly and make available all the resources at its disposal, which are not insignificant.
However, this challenge for the Commission needs to be met if the Commissioner truly wants to prevent the southern part of the Union, which does indeed exist, from continuing to burn. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in this first plenary sitting of the legislature, we have to deal with this sad and now customary issue: natural disasters and, in particular, fires.
Prevention, responsiveness and resources: in short, everything needs to be done to ensure that southern Europe will no longer inevitably be like a cat on hot bricks. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, yet again this year, southern Europe was impossibly hard hit by destructive fires, and fires of similar proportions also broke out in the USA and in other countries in the developed and developing world.
A European policy on the protection of forests, on the restoration of burned land, on the forestation of areas, within the framework of European assistance in combating climate change, is absolutely necessary, as is coordinated European action to prevent and fight fires, restore forests and establish new forest areas.
We must therefore be the ones who set an example, by ensuring there is absolute protection for forests under threat, for our forests under threat in Europe, which are the Mediterranean forests. (DE) Madam President, the scale of the forest fires actually exceeds the capabilities of the smaller Member States, especially in those regions particularly affected by drought.
More than 400 000 hectares of forest and field went up in smoke, causing considerable material damage, irreparable damage to biodiversity, and the tragic loss of human lives.
I welcome the existing initiatives and, in particular, the European Forest Fire Information System - the pilot project.
I can, of course, provide Europe with this example, which may be of use. (FI) Mr President, the past year has been one of the most tragic for forest fires.
Environmental researchers have discovered that forest fires in the EU, Australia and California are mainly explained by socio-economic factors.
Most of this financing should go to the prevention of fires and floods in southern Europe.
The European Union Solidarity Fund is principally a source of emergency aid, and I hope that the various Member States will be prepared to invest in a long-term forest policy, fire prevention and protection from floods. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, a fire is always a tragedy, a tragedy for people, a tragedy for the environment, an economic and social tragedy.
However, there needs to be coordination between the different Community instruments: the Structural Funds, the Solidarity Fund - which clearly needs to be reformed - and their flexibility, and also instruments such as Aid Plus and, of course, the rapid response mechanism that we have already discussed.
We need a European policy on forests that seeks both to raise their profile and to prevent fires.
With regard to this prevention policy, I have here a question that is also a suggestion: why not include forest fire prevention measures in the EU's economic recovery plan, the plan to revive the European economy?
That is what this resolution requests, and that is why we shall be supporting it wholeheartedly tomorrow. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as accurate as the resolution entitled 'Natural disasters', tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), is, I would nonetheless like to draw attention to some points that have been addressed this evening but which are not addressed in the resolution, and which are the subject of my proposed amendments.
Lastly, I would like to say that it is a good idea to set up this independent intervention force and the associated Solidarity Fund.
I think more of us should speak about issues of concern in other Member States that we know of, so that there is a sense in which there is greater solidarity among Members of this House regarding the concerns of their citizens.
I would, for example, like other people to take up concerns that might arise in Ireland for my citizens.
Much more must be done by management and, lastly, the Solidarity Funds should be released to those who need them. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner Dimas, this is the first time I have been an MEP - I was elected on 7 June - but from the debate, it is clear that this matter comes back every September after the wave of devastating fires that particularly affect southern Europe: Italy, France, Greece and Spain.
In Greece, the fires devastated an area of approximately 21 200 hectares, destroying around 2 million trees and at least 150 houses.
I also believe that we need in the future a sustainable forestry policy, as well as a strategy for preventing disasters of this kind.
Mr President, I should like to thank the honourable members of Parliament for their extremely constructive contributions to this evening's debate and for the excellent ideas they have proposed.
This has also been confirmed by the fires this summer, which reminded us that the Community needs to improve not only its capacity to respond to natural disasters, but also its ability to prevent them, as numerous speakers emphasised this evening.
I believe that the new Parliament will not delay its response, which we expect to receive in February.
In fact, I have proposed that we should not simply wait for 2013 to start this action, but should start it at once, in 2010.
I hope that the European Council will agree, either on 17 September or in October, that money should be provided to start works immediately, so that these countries can see that the European Union and the developed countries really mean what they propose and what they say.
The Community mechanism for rural development and the European Regional Development Fund offer the facility to support national prevention measures.
As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, I have heard - and it is right - that it needs greater flexibility.
The Commission undertakes to strengthen the Community contribution to prevention, readiness, response and restoration of disasters, in order to protect citizens and the environment.
May I thank Parliament once again for its active support for the need to improve disaster management for the benefit of all European citizens.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 16 September.
Europe needs to show solidarity in the face of such natural disasters.
It is the Member States who are responsible for precautionary preparations for disasters and for drawing up emergency management plans and the EU must not meddle in this important competence on the part of the individual Member States.
Firstly, by organising the means of intervention better: it is Mr Barnier's idea to have a European civil protection force capable of intervening in support of the national forces.
In order to contain a fire, large-scale, fast intervention is required: European solidarity has to be more effective.
