Together for Health: A Strategic Approach for the EU 2008-2013 (debate) The next item is the report by Alojz Peterle, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the White Paper entitled 'Together for Health: A Strategic Approach for the EU 2008-2013'.
rapporteur. - (SL) This report concerns everyone - the sick and the healthy.
Health is one of the key social and political issues on which the future of the European Union hangs.
Health systems and their financing are coming under increasing pressure.
They are also concerned about equality of healthcare, which is considerable among the Member States, as also within the countries themselves.
This strategy is a product of the commitment by the Member States and the Union to respect the common values and principles of health policy when ensuring the conditions for realising citizens' rights and responsibilities in their personal healthcare throughout their life, in their active involvement in decision-making and the adjustment of healthcare to patients' needs, in reducing inequalities in healthcare among different social groups, Member States and the regions within them, in understanding the investment in healthcare as a condition of economic development, and in the consistent inclusion of health in policies at all levels.
It is clear that the health sector really needs a long-term strategic and comprehensive approach, which will require all the main actors in the Member States and at European Union level to work in cooperation.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am taking this debate on behalf of my colleague, Commissioner Vassiliou.
The Commission welcomes this report, and fully agrees with the key issues it raises, in particular the need to address health inequalities, to focus on promoting health by encouraging healthy lifestyles and to help prevent diseases.
Health inequalities between different regions in the EU and between different socioeconomic groups are a growing concern, and the Commission plans to bring forward action later next year to help bridge the health gap across the EU.
The Commission also fully agrees with Parliament about the need to step up our efforts to prevent diseases.
But we need to do more to help health systems fight cancer.
Finally, the Commission endorses the views expressed about the need for health and social policies to work closely together.
Mainstreaming health concerns in other policies is indeed a key principle of our strategy, and we are currently exploring synergies on a wide range of issues between these two policy areas.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, health, alongside our freedom, is the most important thing for the majority of us.
However, health services and the way in which they are organised, their quality and their funding are the complete responsibility of the EU Member States.
I would like to call on the President and on each one of us, on this occasion when we are debating this important document, to consider the possibility of establishing a European Parliament Committee on Health during the next parliamentary term.
Hence my appeal to the Commission that in future it should integrate public health issues into all EU policy areas and in that regard it should not forget gender mainstreaming in an enhanced healthcare policy.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, we are currently discussing this White Paper on health for 2008-2013, and health is of course a fundamental right for us all.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, my political group supports the Commission's white paper on the health strategy.
In my work as shadow rapporteur on this report, I have detected a real sense that there are too many different working groups and work streams, expert groups and task forces, many of which have been set up as presidencies' pet projects, or because of pressures from members of this House or from other interest groups.
I would urge colleagues to vote for my Amendment 2 calling for the Commission to launch a review of current work streams.
I would like to ask the Commission to respond in particular to my Amendments 1 and 6 regarding exposure to substances toxic for reproduction.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, everybody agrees that health is one of the most precious values for our citizens, yet, as we all know, under Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty, health falls exclusively within the competence of the Member States.
My position is that the time has come for an urgent change to Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty and this can only be achieved by a concerted effort by the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
Healthcare systems are also cause for concern, as they often prove inadequate.
In this context, I would remind the House that the Polish poet Alexander Fredra advised his readers not to neglect their well-being, because to do so would endanger not only their health but their very lives.
We should concentrate on disease prevention through the promotion of healthy lifestyles and the provision of optimum treatment, as well as on investment in new technologies and research.
It is also necessary to invest in prevention and public education programmes.
It amounts to a Union healthcare strategy that stands out against other health systems, and could indeed serve as an example for the latter.
I am also glad to learn that certain countries have already taken action with a view to developing a common standpoint and incorporating the strategy into their national health plans.
Action of this nature has also been taken in Poland.
Accordingly, I believe that the strategic plan should be considered in conjunction with methods of financing public healthcare in the Member States.
This White Paper proposed by the Commission is a first step in setting clear and beneficial objectives in the field of health, but it is unfortunate that it does not respond to the challenges of quality healthcare and equal access.
This could have very serious consequences on the territorial distribution of health personnel and aggravate what are already very precarious situations in certain Member States.
I naturally support the amendments tabled by my colleagues concerning health in the workplace.
This is a crucial topic because work-related health problems are becoming more and more common. (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw attention to three issues in this debate.
It therefore requires increased financial support within the framework of the common agricultural system. (PL) Mr President, many important issues relating to health and healthcare are raised in the document under discussion.
EU action can be valuable in creating pan-European networks of expertise which permit exchange of best practice in fields such as e-health, nanotechnology, rare disease treatments or centres of excellence.
Unfortunately, our children's chances of getting this kind of help in the future are being jeopardised because we allow doctors to prescribe antibiotics when they are not needed and even sell antibiotics without a prescription.
A system has suddenly been introduced there as a result of which doctors are moving away from socially deprived and poor areas, where medical care is most needed, to areas where people are healthiest and most wealthy.
I believe that the EU should collect statistics and information so that voters, and also those who take decisions on health care, can be given clear advice on what measures lead to greater social justice in health and which do not. (RO) To respond the major challenges that the health sector is facing in the European Union, we need action plans which should include promoting a better state of health , public education and disease prevention programmes, especially for those diseases related to food, obesity, alcohol and drug consumption and smoking.
The saying 'all the medicine in the world cannot replace exercise, but exercise can replace all the medicine in the world' is timeless.
That way the new Member States are supporting and strengthening the health services of their richer neighbours.
However, a solidarity and compensation fund is necessary for the abatement of the consequences of this loss of specialists. (PL) Mr President, matters relating to health fall within the competence of individual Member States.
The provision of certain healthcare services in most of the new Member States is low.
The Commission has consulted the social partners on the possible revision of the 2004 directive in this area and is currently commissioning a study to be concluded in early 2010 on the options for amending this directive.
EU legislation on health and safety at work, specifically the 1998 directive on all chemical agents, already covers protection at work against all chemicals, including those with a toxic effect on reproduction.
The ECDC work plan for 2008 includes antimicrobial resistance among its priority actions.
The first Awareness Day will take place on 18 November 2008.
If these amendments are approved, we will have an unbalanced picture, because other categories of the population will not be treated with such attention.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) Health is something that has a cost but has no price.
Investment in health is the most effective and efficient investment there can be for a society tailored to people's needs.
This investment is a joint responsibility on the part of individuals who must adopt healthy lifestyles by behaving responsibly, healthcare staff who must abide by their code of professional ethics, and national and regional governments, which must pay particular attention to the sustainability of health systems.
in writing. - (RO) It is encouraging to see that the European Parliament adopted the Resolution concerning the European Commission's White Paper "Together for Health: A Strategic Approach for the EU 2008-2013”=.
As a representative of a country whose medical system is of very poor quality, which is reflected in the population's worrying state of health, I would like to stress the importance of putting words into practice but also the need to show greater solidarity at European Union level in order to offer all citizens decent medical care services.
A quarter of Romanian children have health issues.
in writing. - (HU) Allergy is the endemic disease of our time.
in writing. - I would like to draw attention to the worrying tendency in Europe, where more and more young people suffer from mental problems.
No school can replace a caring family where parents see their responsibility in teaching their children the basics of social and ethical values.
It is important to include all actors in society to achieve the set goals.
in writing. - (RO) I salute the fact that the Peterle Report approaches and emphasises the urgent need to take active measures to recruit and retain health professionals.
Therefore, not only did we cross the level considered to be a code red threshold, but we also reached double that percentage.
From the beginning of the year up until 1 September 2008, 957 persons asked the Romanian Physicians' College (CMR) for moral integrity certificates which will allow them to work abroad.
in writing. - (HU) First, I would like to say how happy I am that we have recently seen more and more reports and strategies on the importance of health.
On 7 October, the Committee on Budgets adopted a research project I proposed, 'Comprehensive Research on Health, the Environment and Climate Change - Improvement in Inside and Outside Air Quality'.
in writing. - (PL) Health is one of the greatest blessings a human being can enjoy in life.
In addition, the healthcare systems of certain EU Member States need to undergo radical reform in order to eliminate tremendous inequalities.
In addition, I should like to emphasise the need to respect the competences of the Member States in the area of healthcare and freedom of choice of medical services.
in writing. - (DE) In the interests of health protection, we must face up to the challenges identified.
Life expectancy in the 'old' Member States is on average 10 years higher than in the new Member States.
in writing. - (RO) Health is one of the most important values in a human's life.
The differences between the new and the old EU Member States in the survival rates for cancer patients are so large that we can speak of an "iron curtain in the health sector”.
