Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 15 March.
As you know, since 15 March, there have unfortunately been two further additions to the intolerable list of Spanish people whose lives have been lost in these attacks.
During the night of 17 March, Santos Santamaría, who was a member of the Mossos d' Esquadra, the Catalan regional police force, was killed in a car bomb explosion in Rosas.
On 20 March, Froilàn Elespe Inciarte, a Socialist party municipal councillor in Lasarte, was shot twice in the head and killed.
Madam President, I should briefly like to explain our request.
Steps have since been taken against the priests in question and the relevant details have been disclosed.
Accordingly, my group proposes not to include this topic in the urgent and topical debate.
In this light, we cannot just dismiss this subject as marginal.
Mr Lannoye, I share your feelings especially because, as you know, I thought that I could react extremely swiftly in exactly the way that you describe.
I would therefore ask you to include this in the urgent and topical debate on Thursday, or to submit a statement tomorrow, since the Interparliamentary Meeting will continue until 7 April at the latest.
Thank you, Mr van Velzen.
Madam President, I wish to express our indignation at two recent events in the Balkans.
The first is the arrest of the former President of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, and the other is the imminent agreement between Bulgaria and NATO on free passage for NATO forces.
The Americans, NATO and the European Union spent USD 100 million ousting President Milosevic.
However, if you want to give Serb and Yugoslav democratic powers a chance, allow them to bravely take on their responsibility and see things through to the end. (Loud applause) Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to the Council' s decision of 19 March, in which, instead of the promised regulation on openness that should have come into force on 1 May, a set of internal provisions is adopted, infringing the Treaty rules on adoption of the Rules of Procedure, which as we know requires a simple majority.
Mr Bonde, as you said, a legal opinion was issued on this matter and it will be looked into this week at the Conference of Presidents.
I am a member of a party in office myself, but I know that the opposition sometimes has very interesting things to say as well.
The Commission has notified this communication within the context of the wider action plan for financial services drawn up in application of the decisions by the European Council in Lisbon on the unification of the European financial and capital markets.
Unifying these markets will help to complete the single market. Ôhe last European Council in Stockholm revisited this issue, calling for the action plan to be fully applied by 2005 and for all interested parties to make every effort to achieve a single stock market by the end of 2003.
The Commission communication is not a legislative text.
With these thoughts in mind, the Socialist Group firmly supports the completion of the single market and the unification of the financial markets in Europe.
The fact that, under the original directive, the investment company no longer needed to file 15 applications and obtain 15 licences, but only needed one licence in order to establish anywhere in Europe was, without doubt, a step forward, but it lost much of its impetus because each company had to deal with 15 different legislative regimes on the ground.
It cannot, of course, insist that the stock exchanges merge, but what we can do, and what I suggest to you, is that contracting parties should have the right to choose the clearing and settlement system which they prefer, even if it is different from that of the stock exchange on which the transaction was conducted.
Today, the regulated markets are no longer infrastructure-type organisations; they have become commercial companies, while numerous large, highly computerised stock exchange companies have metamorphosed from intermediaries on the market into internal share markets.
The limits within which European stock exchanges are fed from workers' pension funds cannot but be much stricter than in the days when stock exchanges were simply casinos for the rich.
There was not a single amendment made to my report, which I am very happy about.
Article 11 of the investment services directive needs to be revised to remove the legal uncertainty that prevails nowadays in the European investment markets as well as overlapping and conflicting rules.
We must ensure that all investors have the opportunity to participate in the internal investment services market, safe in the knowledge that European legislation will provide the appropriate freedoms and, if required, adequate protection.
My report proposes that any clarification of Article 11 will work best if the country-of-origin principle is applied to all investment services provided across borders.
If these two directives do not work on the same basis, the position of customers purchasing investment services electronically will be different from that of consumers who purchase their services through traditional channels.
Any interpretation of Article 11 of the directive on investment services must in any case be consistent with Articles 3.4 and 3.5 of the electronic commerce directive.
The host country may thus only restrict the free movement of services to protect investors on a case by case basis and in compliance with a special procedure and a list of specific conditions.
The current ISD already states that the right to market services in the internal market can only be restricted for reasons connected with the general good.
Madam President, I welcome and support both the reports we are discussing today.
We have an increased administrative and bureaucratic burden, which still leaves different firms facing over 15 different legal systems and rule systems.
These conduct-of-business and advertising rules have been used to protect markets rather than consumers and the Commission should clamp down strongly on that.
We should have a country-of-origin approach underlying this directive.
I do not see why we cannot trust consumers to pick a product from other Members of the European Union and to be protected by the financial services authorities of those other Members of the European Union.
It is vital to ensure that we are consistent with the e-commerce directive, and a country-of-origin approach will be consistent with the e-commerce directive if we adopt it in the ISD.
I would like to see the Commission make full use of its enforcement powers to make sure the current version of the ISD is enforced properly by every single Member State and indeed that the next version of the ISD is also properly enforced.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I am pleased for both rapporteurs that their reports have met with such broad approval, not only in the Committee but also here in Parliament.
Two further points, which have also already been mentioned, are of concern to me here.
In order to use this opportunity and remove the existing obstacles to its introduction, we urgently need to move over to the country-of-origin principle.
My second concern is that there should be genuine competition between stock exchanges and trading platforms.
It is well-known that the investment services directive is the bedrock of the EU legislative framework in the field of securities markets.
The Commission welcomes the timely and coherent responses of the European Parliament to the two communications on the investment services directive.
The Kauppi report cogently addresses the principal hurdle to be overcome, which is the overlapping and conflicting national rules for conduct of business.
The approach outlined in the communication in Article 11 has been constrained by the inherent ambiguity of the provision and the absence of relevant jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice.
Despite this, the communication sends a clear message, that the cross-border provision of investment services to professional investors should already be subject to home country conduct-of-business rules alone.
The definition of professional investor put forward by the Commission on the basis of a consensus reached between national supervisors and FESCO represents a useful starting point.
I now come to a few points which are specific to the report prepared by Mr Katiforis.
The Katiforis report cautions against sweeping changes at this time.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The sixth amendment of the cosmetics directive, for which I also had the honour of being rapporteur some years ago, clearly provides, for example, that in a number of stages an absolute final date should be set for animal testing for cosmetics, a date after which no more animal testing should take place.
This test and marketing ban - in effect a sales ban - from the sixth amendment has been converted by the Commission into a straight ban on testing in the territory of the European Union.
Whether the Commission's trade argument would carry weight at all is all the more questionable because recently, a few months ago, the United States itself decided in its Dog and Cat Fur Act to adopt laws which are based solely on animal protection and on the moral sensitivities of the population.
I am not forcing anybody to spread an unsafe product on their skin or on their children's skin or even to brush their teeth with an unsafe toothpaste.
Some time later - five years in my amendment, perhaps even later - there should be a total sales ban.
That is why I am proposing to this House, with the support of the Committee, that we develop a symbol and that the Commission prescribe a clear label to go with it for products with a durability of over 30 months.
In my opinion, these are all proposals which improve the sixth amendment - that is why we are here after all - and which afford a better level of protection to consumers, but also keep them better informed and give them the right to choose.
After all, we also need to go into the second reading with something to play for.
The Committee' s opinion focuses on the examination of the ban on animal experiments in testing cosmetics specifically from these points of view.
To speed up the introduction of alternative methods, our Committee is suggesting that a ban on animal experiments in the testing of end products and cosmetic ingredients should come into force according to a faster schedule than that which the Commission is proposing.
Regarding the marketing ban on products proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, according to information received by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, it may be that a marketing ban, a sales ban, on cosmetic products that have been tested using animals is in conflict with WTO regulations.
Our Committee also defends the consumer' s right to information through the proper labelling of products that have not been tried out on animals.
I will say that, as shadow rapporteur, I have been able to note a clear majority opinion, in all the groups of this Parliament, in favour of banning both sales and marketing and experimentation.
I believe that this is an opinion which should at least be taken into account and which we should try to incorporate into the text, since we must not forget that the aim of the legislator must be to establish a balance between two values: the safety of consumers and the protection of animals.
In the quest for this balance we will have to take into account not only economic, socio-cultural and animal protection factors, but also scientific and legal factors.
However, I believe that the time limits indicated by the rapporteur should be more flexible, bearing in mind that in the last debate in Parliament, if I am not mistaken, the Commission said that the necessary alternative methods could be developed in approximately ten years time.
Our group therefore wishes to support Amendment No 21 which proposes that Parliament reject the Commission' s proposal in its entirety.
The aim must be to impose a ban in the EU area on tests using animals and the marketing of products that have been tested on animals.
The rapporteur has also hopefully discovered a way of influencing policy in the Council for the implementation of swift measures by calling for an immediate ban on the sales of products tested by using animals.
The Committee has addressed some spurious issues put up by the industry, such as that of the possible health benefits from new products, which they said could be reclassified as pharmaceuticals.
The proposal from the Commission is not only fundamentally flawed but it is also extremely disappointing.
There is no reason why animal protection cannot be a legitimate reason for adopting trade restrictive measures.
Cosmetics containing any of 26 fragrances above a certain threshold are to be labelled with a warning which says 'could cause an allergic reaction' .
We would have liked to see a complete ban on these fragrances, but unfortunately we did not get support within the Committee for that.
This should, however, not stop us from forging ahead.
Mr President, the amendment to the directive on cosmetic products has provoked intense debate on the issue of animal testing.
The text seems to have abandoned the idea of a marketing ban on new cosmetics tested on animals and prefers to confine itself to a ban on testing cosmetics on animals within the European Union.
In the current situation, however, there is a lack of sufficiently reliable alternative methods.
However, Commissioner, when, as I point out in an amendment supported by over 50 Members of Parliament, it is a matter of new cosmetics containing new ingredients which have never been tested in the past in order to establish their toxicological profile in laboratory animals, then, as a scientist, I am convinced that it is essential to carry out an initial set of experiments on animals before cosmetics are used by human beings and before they are placed on the market.
Finally, it would appear absurd, moreover, both in scientific terms but also in terms of existing international agreements, to prevent the marketing in Europe of those very cosmetics which are the safest because they have been tested on animals in the past.
For all these reasons, dear Commissioner, I support your report, the Commission's report, which is not a hit-and-miss report but a report based on the recommendations of an international scientific committee.
It is simply not good enough to say, as this glossy publication does, that you cannot set these timetables because that would be the equivalent of announcing the date for a cure for cancer.
As other Members have said, there have been enough postponements: from 1998 to 2000, and then to 2002.
We would have liked, as a group, to have seen the report further strengthened by the adoption of a ban on the use of allergenic fragrances, particularly in baby products.
I am quite certain, however, that this will also make a great impression on you and that it will also be clear to you that a very large proportion of the European population backs this request.
Everything which is already on the market now, which you can see in any airport, from Elizabeth Arden to Ellen Betrix, all of this can continue to be sold and marketed.
Without doubt much of the responsible sector of the cosmetics industry has taken considerable strides in moving towards fewer tests on animals, but public opinion is well-grounded and it is good that it has been reflected, not just in the past, but strongly reiterated and strengthened in the Roth-Behrendt report.
This report is well worked out in its detail.
Mr President, the key and emotive issue regarding this debate and this directive is how to protect the health of children and adults while ensuring the phasing out of animal testing within a reasonable timescale.
The Scientific Committee on Cosmetics sets guidelines on the sort of tests that should be carried out and these include animal tests.
The key is to get the test and any alternatives to existing tests into Annex 5 of the dangerous substances directive.
It would be horrendous if a child were to suffer or even die because an inadequately tested product was allowed on the market; and we have to remember that items such as toothpaste and medicated shampoos are classified as cosmetics.
The rapporteur has wrestled, as only Dagmar Roth-Behrendt can, to find an alternative; and if her alternative is to ban the marketing of any products that have been tested on animals, then that is fine; but on its own that could bring an end to research and improvements, including improvements to the health of children and adults, if no alternative is available.
We must stop manufacturers and retailers claiming their products are not tested on animals when one or more of the ingredients have been so tested.
This is what I have done since entering this Parliament, in respect of foodstuffs but also cosmetics.
Your Amendment No 42, Mr Nisticò, which concerns finished products, is already covered in the existing legislation.
I am simply convinced that with the ingredients which are available and have been tested we are already able, even today, to produce any toothpaste in the world and also, for me, any kind of lipstick, of which I am so fond.
He said very clearly: in that case perhaps we need to re-examine the delimitation between cosmetics and pharmaceuticals if this new, fantastically important suncream protects us all from skin cancer.
Finally, colleagues, I should like to thank you for your very fair and constructive cooperation in the run up to our discussions in the Committee, during the vote in the Committee and also here in Parliament today.
In the future there must be no tests on animals for products and their constituents which have already been investigated once and for which reliable results are available.
In certain cases it is quite simply necessary to carry out tests on animals, in particular where acute skin and eye intolerances are concerned.
That is why we are in favour of tightening up on the use of allergy-causing substances.
I have therefore worked in constant and close cooperation with my colleagues David Byrne and Pascal Lamy, responsible for health and consumer protection and trade issues respectively.
We share the concerns of the European Parliament on the use of substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction.
The Commission has proposed new measures on these products in its White Paper on the new chemical policy which is now in public consultation.
This will represent a positive improvement to the current labelling requirements allowing consumers who are sensitive to certain ingredients to avoid products which contain them.
An additional primary objective, however, is to provide European citizens with the highest possible level of safety in all products which they use.
This proposal has the advantage of achieving these objectives by providing legally and practically enforceable measures without giving rise to possible trade disputes.
The Commission can, in principle, accept Amendments Nos 1 (first part), 2, 4, 5, 7 (second part), 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 (second and third parts), 15 (second part with the exception of the suggested consultation of the European Parliament), 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23 (second part), 26, 29 (second part), 30, 31 (second part with the same remark as before), 32, 33 (second part), 34 (second and third parts), 38 (second part), 41 and 49 (second part).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Moreover, with regard to the PVC industry voluntary commitment, I honestly believe that this is an important step.
There are many other points in my report that I would like to mention, but I will limit myself to two: the disposal of the hazardous substances cadmium, lead and phthalates, in the first place, and then the multifaceted strategy for PVC disposal.
Mr President, I would like to end by thanking all the Members who have contributed to the improvement of my report by tabling amendments in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
It is nevertheless justified, as problems start to appear at the stage when responsibility for the product has moved away from industry itself towards society.
A majority in the Committee voted in favour of an opinion in which concern for the environment and for health is linked to a strategy of voluntary commitments on the part of industry.
A number of Member States have already taken measures regarding specific aspects of the life cycle of PVC.
After all, once waste has been incinerated, lead additives from PVC account for approximately 10% of the unwanted high lead content in residues of waste plants, which necessitates a more stringent policy in this respect.
An important aspect in this connection is the high chlorine content.
The problems that exist with disposal have been mentioned here.
Some people are trying to make out that this material is public enemy number one.
The precautionary principle requires us to do this.
Recycling cannot solve the problem as potential recycling rates under ecological criteria are projected to reach only 5% by 2020.
We think this is a very good starting point, but it should not end there.
I believe that the Sacconi report can make very valuable contributions to such an initiative on the part of the Commission.
Hazardous stabilisers in the form of heavy metals such as lead and cadmium must be banned as soon as possible.
It would therefore be consistent to specify a deadline for cadmium, just as the report does in the case of lead.
That is why it is appropriate to mention the substitution principle in this context too.
I am calling on the Commission, under the auspices of the European directive, to carry out a broader study of the possible public health consequences of PVC products consigned to landfill dumps in Europe.
The Commission must centralise the information concerning the effects of PVC in our society so that appropriate measures can be taken at national and European level to reduce any possible public health consequences from its use.
PVC is a very important material in our society.
In this connection, we should start with the simplest task, namely to focus on PVC which is easy to collect in large quantities.
However, what causes me real concern is Paragraph 31 of the resolution, which more or less concludes that PVC should be dumped.
Industry already voluntarily refrains from using cadmium in PVC products today.
A general ban on PVC products would be nothing short of fatal for 530,000 employees in the PVC sector throughout Europe, 170,000 in Germany alone.
The introduction of a PVC levy, the separation of hard and soft PVC and a ban on PVC in the building sector would be a particular burden on small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe.
PVC as a material needs to undergo a thorough assessment of its entire life-cycle.
We need to improve this aspect of the Green Paper a little more and ensure that the PVC strategy is also implemented in the applicant countries as soon as possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we need to constantly remind ourselves that the problems presented by PVC are unique.
This means that these manufacturers could just as easily use other materials.
Mr President, we are surrounded by chemicals in our everyday lives.
PVC has received a lot of attention and despite the fact that it has been around for over 40 years with no apparent health risks, the spectre of the risk of PVC has been raised.
Mr President, I welcome this report as a very important first step in what is going to be a very important debate.
We all know that there is widespread concern about PVC within our society.
I should like to say to Mr Sacconi that he has tried to put a few things straight and he has succeeded in doing so in parts, but not everywhere.
The fact that this requires us to solve problems is something that is also true in any other sector and with any other material.
The entire body of legislation on the use of PVC - the incineration directive, the landfill directive - provides legislative foundations on which we can build when we want to use and dispose of this particular material.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Green Paper before us has, in my opinion, served its purpose.
All of the stakeholders - the Commission, Parliament, the companies and associations - have held in-depth discussions in the last few months about the advantages and disadvantages of PVC as a material.
Urgent efforts should therefore be made to find substitutes for these two toxic substances.
The draft opinion presented to the European Parliament covers all the essential matters and will be an important guide when the Commission prepares its communication proposing a Commission strategy on PVC.
In its assessment, the Commission will mainly concentrate on the use of certain PVC additives, lead, cadmium and phthalates, as well as the treatment of PVC waste in accordance with the commitment the Commission made in its proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles.
This safety mechanism and other methods are to be examined more closely in a communication on voluntary agreements that the Commission is at present drafting.
The second pillar, the supplementary occupational pension, will certainly play an increasingly important role in the Member States of the European Union.
In this context it should be noted that the Commission has not yet submitted a proposal for a directive to Parliament which covers the whole package necessary for an occupational pension, as it promised it would last year, but only one part of it.
That is why for us in the European Parliament it is terribly important that we also receive answers from you, before we complete our discussions, on how tax coordination is to be guaranteed in this sector.
I agree with Mrs Randzio-Plath on her first question.
The proposal for a pension fund directive is a first important step in the direction of cross-border membership of pension funds.
As the explanatory memorandum to the proposed directive sets out, for cross-border membership it should be possible for companies and employees to obtain tax relief on contributions paid to funds in other Member States.
It effectively closes off the pension markets of many Member States.
I shall be very happy to discuss those with you and how the communication should and could be implemented after its adoption by the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we are having this debate today, because there is of course a need to clarify a number of points in connection with the report on occupational retirement provision, the second pillar.
Further Commission initiatives will have to follow, which we will address in our report very clearly and in ever greater detail, because we will not have transferable pensions and mobility within the EU until the Member States agree on common taxation principles.
We know that setting the tax rate is part of income tax and thus falls within the purview of the Member States.
Mr President, my group's attitude towards the Commission's attempts in this area is rather different from that of the previous speaker.
Indeed, if we were to criticise the Commission, we would criticise it rather from the other side; we would hope that the Commission would take a rather more robustly liberal attitude, for example in the proposals which it has made for a directive on occupational pension funds, to remove the possibility of certain Member States deciding to continue to implement quantitative restrictions for which there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever of any superior performance.
The Commission should generally adopt the guiding principle that it should at least be capable of putting forward some evidence in favour of its proposals, rather than merely going for something which appears to be no better than the average practice in those Member States where the prudent person principle is adopted.
The financial services action plan is a considerable task consisting of 42 measures.
The Lamfalussy report deals with ways in which that can be speeded up, but we are now running into manpower problems.
It is not the first time that I say this here tonight, but it is one of the reasons why we have not been as quick as we had wanted to.
Mr Karas said that the directive or the communication could have included more aspects.
Mr Karas says that this is ein Schritt, it is just one step in the right direction and of course he is right, as I said in my opening remarks.
The Council may give unanimous approval to a much smaller and insignificant directive but that is not what Parliament or the Commission wants.
