Certain new rules were called for in view of the market opening for 25 countries that is planned for May 2009.
Preventing this form of establishment means preventing social and fiscal dumping, which was also a subject in itself in the road package.
The ultimate aim is to regulate services in third countries and, in the medium term, the cabotage market should be opened.
I should also like a clear answer from the Commission as to whether countries that have already opened their cabotage markets pursuant to Article 306 of the Treaty will be prevented from continuing to do so under this regulation.
I would like to thank you for offering me the opportunity to address you ahead of tomorrow's vote on the road transport package.
The package is important because of the need for a clear and harmonised approach on the current system of cabotage instead of different approaches in the various Member States and also access to the market for transport operators.
With the help and support of the rapporteurs the Presidency has achieved a successful result concerning this important collection of legal regulations.
The compromise also assumes that Member States will use appropriate safety mechanisms for preventing violations caused by cabotage on the road haulage market.
If used in a way that complements international transport, cabotage also contributes towards a better use of capacity and a reduction in unladen journeys, meaning a reduction in the number of heavy goods vehicles on the road - and you will be aware of how many road accidents involve large vehicles.
This regulation will clarify the rules on cabotage, which will be applicable - and I refer here particularly to Mr Grosch's comment - in a uniform and non-bureaucratic fashion throughout the EU, without affecting existing cooperation between Member States under Article 306 of the Treaty.
The Commission has made a statement to this effect, which will be sent to the Parliament Secretariat for inclusion in the reports of this debate.
I should also like to thank the Council and the Commission for supporting us in the end on the reintroduction of the 12-day rule for buses and coaches.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank both rapporteurs for their work on this difficult dossier.
It is anything but workable, Mr Simpson.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
Commissioner, I would certainly like to thank both rapporteurs and all those others who have been involved in finding a compromise, but I would like to say that there are both positive and negative aspects to what we have accomplished.
I would like to make a similar point about international coach transport too.
The proposals contained in the European Parliament reports move in an even more reactionary direction.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Had I predicted around 1980 that the end for the cabotage restrictions would still not be in sight by 2009, there is no doubt that my audience would have had a good laugh at my expense.
I am pleased to see that the 12-day rule has been retained in the proposals, but not that this has been done at the expense of ending cabotage restrictions.
I refuse to put my name to a proposal that is detrimental to the environment, puts the haulage sector at a disadvantage and is very disrespectful of the workings of the European internal market. (NL) I should like to start by saying that the good news in the proposal we are now discussing is that the 12-day rule for bus transport has been abolished.
The content of this proposal is both wrong and unenforceable.
However, we know only too well today that, on issues such as cabotage, social conditions in the various countries are such that, were it to be systematised, we could, as things stand, see a number of workers from countries with high levels of pay ejected, ousted from the market by countries with low levels of pay.
The Council disagrees, but I think this is one concession too many.
Winston Churchill said if you have 10 000 regulations you destroy all respect for the law.
In 35 years, that is more law than England has made since King Richard III in 1485.
With regard to road transport, there are two important points I should like to make.
It is indeed logical that everything should be thrown open, but the time is not yet right, in my view.
Meanwhile, it should be possible for a number of countries, or groups of countries, such as the Benelux countries, for example, to agree with each other that things stay the same so that open cabotage remains possible.
London taxis are also known for their quality.
The Presidency therefore believes that, precisely for this reason, an adjustment is required in existing Community legal regulations.
It is clear that by 2013 at the latest the Commission will assess the situation on the market again with a view to further liberalisation.
Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank you again for your cooperation, and the Council for its work, and express my thanks once more in this House to the Commission staff of the Directorate General that I have the honour to lead, because without their valuable contribution it would not have been possible to reach a compromise that I believe to be positive for all EU citizens.
I am the listening ear on behalf of everyone in our group who is involved in this subject.
Another very important aspect is that Article 306 applies here - including, quite clearly, to the Benelux countries, Mr Sterckx, which means that your request is superfluous and we no longer need to support it.
Following the remarks I have heard here, I think that this compromise is actually even better than I had thought, for the simple reason - and this I address particularly to my fellow Members from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and my fellow Member from the Dutch Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) - that creating a transitional arrangement does not mean that we wish to throttle the internal market - if I may use that expression - or businesses.
I would like to remind you that in June 2007 the European Commission proposed amending the regulation on access to the road transport business.
The proposals for the amendment have come about from the experience gained following the application of European Commission Directive 96/26.
Here we are now roughly two years later, having a final vote on this document which has a direct impact on approximately 800 000 European enterprises and around 4.5 million jobs.
