Parliament has maintained its own quasi-obligatory register of lobbyists from as long ago as 1996, as well as a very precise code of conduct.
Paragraph 21 also talks about the requirement of financial disclosure, which would be an entirely new element.
Black lists are really not appropriate in a democracy.
According to the Treaties, the churches are partners for our institutions, but they are not lobbyists.
The Commission considers that it is important to know who the interest representatives are, what interests they represent and against what financial background.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. - (DE) Mr President, without transparency, there can be no European democracy.
As for the second core element which is being undermined, there are people in Parliament who assume that lawyers should not be regarded as lobbyists, even if they are not defending people in court, but instead are trying to pull strings to influence legislation in Europe.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, this House should welcome all initiatives which increase the transparency of the EU institutions, which is why I support the proposals before us today.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, firstly, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I must say that I support the report we are debating this morning and will very likely adopt later on in plenary.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the power of the European Parliament under the Lisbon Treaty will put pressure on the aim of greater openness in legislative work.
In our opinion the problem with transparency is finding out whom we are dealing with, what they are doing and who is paying them: that is, the issue of financial disclosure.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, of course lobbyists should not be made a scapegoat.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, Parliament's working group on reform has been in Washington to study the US Congress.
Let us take the debate and the decision-making process on the much-discussed and contentious topic of the REACH draft legislation, which aims to improve safe use of chemicals, as an example: if citizens hear that out of 132 proposed amendments, 32 were identical and were accompanied by written recommendations from the chemical industry associations, if citizens hear this, they will of course steadily lose faith in Europe, and they will have the feeling that European policy-making is simply there to do the multinationals' bidding.
After this twofold tribute to Alexander Stubb, a 'but' is necessary.
It is good to have rules on lobbying, but in Parliament, we already have good rules, and I am not entirely sure that this attempt to achieve a combined arrangement is really a wise move.
Then there are the exceptions: in particular, two exceptions are proposed in two of the amendments which certainly do not promote transparency.
We are at the forefront of openness and transparency on this, and we do resent unwarranted attacks on our position by groups who are trying to portray themselves in public opinion as being the champions of all this, ahead of everybody else, when they are not. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that there needs to be a compulsory register, a register accompanied by a code of conduct for lobbyists, but it should apply to all the institutions and above all, if I may say so, to the Commission.
I shall therefore vote in favour of the Friedrich report. (FR) Mr President, in order to clear up certain misunderstandings and correct the populist statements made by some Members here and in the press, I wish to point out, too, in my capacity as a Quaestor, that the European Parliament has had rules to govern our relations with lobbyists for 12 years.
The definition which we have provided in the report is very broad.
The answer is with very strict rules, regulating even sums of money, or in a general compulsory framework.
I must say, I feel I should thank many of the lobbyists, for they have proved to be a source of considerable expertise in our day-to-day work.
If we currently have 5 000 lobbyists registered with Parliament - all of whom we can recognise by their badges and who are accredited or certified, as it were - that works out at an average of six lobbyists for every Member.
Our voters should know who is in the seats of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy when we are discussing REACH or the telecommunications package; they should know who is tabling amendments; they should know who is preparing many of the reports of this Parliament, which they can find out through this Parliament's webpage, and they should know, through a register, who is spending hundreds of hours in the corridors of Parliament.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption of this report, which, in my view, will enable us to improve significantly the relations between interest representatives and the EU institutions.
In short, I would like to welcome this report which is a good first step in the move for greater transparency.
