I wanted to raise this point yesterday, but you did not authorise me to intervene.
The delay should not be too long because the Court has already announced a deadline of 6 June for the parties to present their arguments and it seems that the Court is speeding up its proceedings and may well reach a judgment before the summer.
If the Council goes ahead and signs all the same, then I think we should start a different procedure.
I wanted to draw your attention to that. &#160;&#160; Although the House was somewhat divided on the issue, the majority was consistent in the different votes that have been held on it over the last two-part-sessions.
We cannot therefore regard all those questions that have yet to receive an answer as having lapsed.
It is coming to a close, and I am informed by the services that this has been the precedent we have always followed.
We should set a new precedent for the future in this regard, and I shall do so.(2) &#160;&#160; The next item is the presentation of the new Members of the enlarged European Commission. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;Cox, ladies and gentlemen, today is a solemn occasion for me because it is my last chance to address you, as in just over a month the European electorate will be renewing this Parliament’s democratic mandate.
This debate, however, has always been frank, open and constructive.
Over the last few weeks you have met the Commissioners one by one during the exchanges of views you have had with them.
They are going to have – indeed they already have – a greater responsibility, because they are even more visibly the face of the European Union, to their fellow countrymen and women: theirs is a crucial role at a time when our new fellow citizens are becoming familiar with the Union and its workings.
The conditions are right for the forthcoming European Council in June to get things moving again and to bring the Intergovernmental Conference to a conclusion.
The Commission will collaborate with the Presidency in every possible way in order to achieve an agreement on the Constitution.
As you know, we have gone beyond thinking simply in accounting terms and have given the exercise a political basis, because we have to organise the political project of an enlarged Europe in line with the resources needed to carry it through.
The political project we propose is supported on three pillars: sustainable development, European citizenship and Europe’s role in the world.
As for the third pillar, Europe in the world, we propose that Europe should take its model for managing relations between countries out into the world.
After years of remarkable but intangible achievements, Europe now has in its common currency an exceptional instrument for political and economic unity, and I mean both political and economic unity.
The practical and symbolic significance of all this is even greater than we might have anticipated.
It is a new reality that we have to come to terms with, and we can only cope with it if we remain united in defending our interests and our values.
The debate on the future of Europe involved all the main players; it took place in the full light of day; and it produced a coherent text on which the Intergovernmental Conference has been able to work effectively.
Ladies and gentlemen, these years spent serving the European cause have wrought profound changes in me too.
Europe needs determination, vision and courage, and I shall be throwing all the enthusiasm and strength I can muster into the fight. &#160;&#160; President Prodi, we thank you for the leadership you have given and we also thank you for the European conviction that has been total and consistent throughout your period in office. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, new members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today is a solemn occasion, but it is also the day on which our work begins.
I wish the new Commissioners good luck and success in their work, and would like to assure them that our group will give them every conceivable support.
We welcome Péter Balázs, Joe Borg, Ján Figel', Dalia Grybauskaitė Danuta Hübner, Siim Kallas, Sandra Kalniete, Markos Kyprianou, Janez Potočnik and Pavel Telička.
From the Member States that belonged to the European Union even before 1 May, we give an equally warm welcome to Jacques Barrot and Joaquín Almunia, as well, of course, to Commissioner Dimas, with whom this plenary has already had dealings.
What is most important, though, is something else, namely the European social model, which we want to make a reality.
As the President of the Commission has said, our competitors are in America, in China, and now in India.
In these areas, too, we in Europe must be pioneers, but, above all where external economic policy is concerned, we must ensure that we are not alone in implementing Kyoto and adopting stringent laws on chemicals.
External economic policy, too, must become a means whereby we defend our European social model, for example where public services are concerned.
If your arguments with us are characterised by frankness and honesty, then we will support you for the sake of Europe as a whole, in which, of course, we all have a very great political interest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Group I congratulate the President of the Commission on assembling a talented team of new Commissioners from the ten new Member States, France and Spain.
We welcome the political balance that is found among the ten, as well as the presence of three women.
The European Union needs a strong, legitimate and accountable Commission, capable of providing political vision and leadership.
Once in every five years this Parliament is the Union's personnel officer.
It is inevitable that the work of this Commission will bind that of the next, just as the work of this Parliament will not be undone on 14 June.
The new Commission will begin its term with one thing in its favour.
This continuity can and should be an asset.
Indeed, to insist on anything else – especially just to pay party political dues – is risible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, new Commissioners, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I should first like to extend heartfelt greetings to the Commissioners of the ten new Member States and to welcome them warmly into the institutions of our greater Europe.
The Iraq crisis revealed this in sharp relief when political Europe once again shot itself in the foot through political calculations or strategies adopted in certain cabinet offices.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, I should like to thank you most sincerely for recalling the major policy guidelines, which, as you said, Parliament had a share in deciding, and which it often encouraged.
The social environment and the economy are intrinsically linked and our proposals must be geared towards them.
Today, you have given the unified Europe new faces.
The more democratic our European institutions, the greater will be the respect for our Union on the international scene. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the newly elected vice-president of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I have the honour of presenting our position.
Now, 59 years later, there is true healing, and Europe is free.
Past experience has taught us that it is impossible for one Commissioner to be responsible for the budget and budgetary control at the same time.
That leads to a conflict of interest in the fight against fraud.
We all know that the Commissioners are appointed by the individual countries but in agreement with the President of the Commission.
In the simplest terms, I would say that the background they depart from is their own country, while the purpose they arrive at is our common interest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is now exactly 20 years since I was lucky enough to get speaking time on my first day in Parliament.
I would like, on this my last occasion, to make a plea on behalf of the Commissioners from small countries: small may be beautiful, but small can also be highly competent, colourful and efficient.
I would like to express, in this my final moment in Parliament, my deep appreciation to Parliament, the Commission and all the institutions, and also to my country for having given me the privilege of having a ringside seat at some of the most momentous political occasions of the last hundred years.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that valedictory statement, Mrs Banotti.
I could not have insisted on the speaking time rule on that occasion! &#160;&#160; Mr President, ten new countries and ten new Commissioners.
I am pronouncing this verdict openly.
Mr Prodi, the ten, or rather twelve, new players will strengthen the fine team that you lead.
If this team also cooperates closely with the European Parliament, it will be even more successful and that is something we must not forget. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a supporter of enlargement to the whole of Europe, I was deeply disappointed by the statement from President Prodi which gave the green light for eventual Turkish and Balkan countries' membership but excluded Ukraine permanently.
It is a very clear-cut strategy: we hope to be able to conclude negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania in 2007; Croatia has started its fast-track move towards the Union; as regards Turkey we have already set the timetable, as I pointed out this morning: in October the Commission’s report, and in December the decision, the frame of reference and the Copenhagen rights; then for the other countries we make a start straight away on what is suggestively termed the ring of friends, that is to say ‘sharing everything but the institutions’.
This in no way means leaving these countries out in the cold; it means beginning a period of close cooperation, giving Europe some soft security, which is vital for us, giving these countries a chance to develop, and giving all of us together a chance to cooperate, both to the east and around the Mediterranean.
We are starting to carry out this policy conscientiously and in earnest, but we must not keep the continent constantly wondering what our horizons or frames of reference are.
We have set these together; they will guide us on our way, help us make progress and will in no way jeopardise our future.
I am sure this is the path that we all want to take together. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, you will receive Parliament's confidence, including mine.
Over the past few days, I have seen a huge number of men, and few women, at the highest echelons in this House.
I can honestly say that, for the first time in the history of the European institutions, we have conducted a thorough, in-depth reform of our working methods, and here I really must thank Commissioner Kinnock.
The other two issues you raised are exceptionally important, and I should like to link them together.
There are wise politicians who are sensitive to the needs of the people and these reports and discussions reflect the concerns of the citizens most in need. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Prodi, you said that euroscepticism has been defeated and is a lost cause.
Euroscepticism does not concern Europe as such, but the European Union.
The traditional Europe of Christian rules will survive, but if the European Union continues to develop in the direction of a single federal state, it will disintegrate. &#160;&#160; . – We have to be extremely clear about this, because we very often confuse it with the tension or discontent that all European citizens feel and that all institutions, beginning with the institutions in their own countries, may have towards the European institutions.
I am aware of the fact that it is our duty to develop closer relations with our citizens, to act transparently and to make ourselves understood, but when we look at situations more closely we see that people very often have a tougher, less open and more negative attitude towards politics in their own countries than they have towards the European Union.
We very often mistake a crisis in modern democracy for a specific crisis in relation to our European institutions.
We have to work on improving the situation, but we must not confuse a passing crisis – the growing pains of democratic systems – with a specific crisis of our institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I would like to warmly welcome the new Commissioners.
I would like to ask you whether you are ready and prepared to take a firm stand on behalf of the Commission to abolish all restrictions on the labour market.
It would be a very important and positive message for the new Member States. &#160;&#160; . – Yes, because I believe that this measure is not only wrong but also pointless, absolutely pointless.
I would like to take the opportunity offered by your maiden speech to underline the fact that our first contact with these Commissioners has confirmed what you have said: we have ten first-rate Commissioners, and that is a really comforting fact.
I should like to ask you, perhaps you Mr Prodi, whether you would not consider perhaps supporting the establishment of an institute for resolving this problem, since this question has now become a matter for Europe and the resolution of the Roma problem is not just a question of financial resources.
That entails a task not only for the Commissioner who has equal opportunities in his or her remit, but also for all Commissioners in their respective areas.
In developing all other policies, I am absolutely certain that the European Commission will continue to seek to give prominence to the critical question of encouraging and supporting women as the majority gender in the population of the world as, indeed, in our continent and Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for giving the floor to this very fleeting Member of Parliament.
I joined the House on 19 April and I will leave on 19 July, with two months of interruption.
I have had meetings with several Commissioners, first with Commissioner Marcelino Oreja, then with Mrs Viviane Reding and recently with Commissioner Vitorino.
Communication is very important and I believe that the European institutions must have a genuine communication policy.
I would like to ask President Prodi whether he believes that the last method he used, taking the communication of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and giving it directly to the Presidency, is the most appropriate, and whether he believes that now, with a much expanded College of Commissioners, the communication policy – always in accordance with the guidelines established by the European Parliament – should be led by the Commission in a more direct fashion, with a view to creating a genuine European spirit. &#160;&#160; . – I will reply very briefly because I also have to reply on the Basel&#160;II issue, which was raised a moment ago.
They are also concerned about the level of commitment to development cooperation which they might expect from the new countries coming into the Union.
Secondly, my question relates to the prospect for the Relex family of directorates under the new Commission.
The idea nevertheless persists in many quarters outside the EU that the EU is incapable of accomplishing enlargement at the same time as attending to other matters.
I believe that this shows that this Commission feels extremely committed to the aim of combating poverty. &#160;&#160; – Permit me firstly to also congratulate the new Commissioners, but I have a specific question for Mr Prodi.
On other continents there are shared responsibilities and complex situations, but Africa is a specific task for us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to thank the outgoing Prodi Commission.
I would also like to welcome and congratulate the incoming Commission.
I give you the example of the Council of Europe, an organisation that is especially close to me.
Second, it must also be remembered that 22 countries remain outside the European Union.
I hope that the climate of cooperation that existed at the last meeting with Russia will continue to prevail when, in a few days, in just a couple of weeks, we have the bilateral summit with that country in Moscow.
This can also include commemorations of particular personalities, which must, however, be decided in the context of this true mutual collaboration. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 25 years ago I was working here illegally, doing manual labour.
Now I am here as a Member of the European Parliament.
It shares our cultural heritage.
If you travel to Lvov or Chernovtsy, you will feel as if you were in Vienna, Budapest or Bratislava.
The Commission is inclined to keep these transitional periods that have been adopted by many countries as short as possible; indeed, for the Commission, it would have been much better if they had not been adopted.
The circle of friends policy, the policy of sharing everything but the institutions with our neighbours, has been thought out with Ukraine very much in mind, and we have established extremely close relations with it in recent years.
I can assure you, Mr&#160;Gadzinowski, that the Commission will stand alongside Poland in every inter-regional cooperation initiative imaginable in relation to Ukraine, precisely because we believe that the bond between Ukraine and the Union is a very close one, not only economically but also culturally, as well as in the emotional roots that connect us to that country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by wishing the new Commissioners well and I hope they will do their best in the difficult tasks facing them in the coming months.
However, I propose that one of them takes on a new task that concerns the stateless nation issue inside the European Union.
We know that 14% of the Members from the new Member States here now are women.
As I have been so brief, may I greet and thank the interpreters, whom perhaps we are meeting today for the last time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, health is a much treasured gift and one of the most important concerns of every citizen of the European Union.
The Commission will lead the debate in conjunction with the health ministers of the Member States of the 25 EU countries.
The contact between those two points is important and Parliament will be aware of the establishment, during this Commission, of the European Centre for Disease Control located in Sweden.
This is likely to continue throughout the life of the next Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in welcoming the new Commissioners, I should like to ask the whole Commission to redouble its efforts to promote good relations with, and good governance in, the countries of Central Asia and the Caucusus.
We need stability among our near and next-door neighbours to be a key priority for the new Commission and the new Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his intensive and hard work on the enlargement of the European Union.
I would like to ask Commissioner Barnier's successor whether he is prepared to draw up or create a new and effective cohesion strategy. &#160;&#160; . – In relation to the first question on the Caucasus, I must say that I fully share the concern that has been expressed.
This strategy has a very important aim, which is to create solidarity with the new countries without abandoning the regions in the old Member States that are still having problems adapting to the average European income.
The turnout during the hearings was generally very low.
The chairmen of the other committees share my view on this.
As first vice-chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like to give this piece of advice to the forthcoming Parliament.
I trust, Mr President, that your visit has proven interesting and informative and will enhance our relations in the future.
The sheer scale of our extraordinary – if I may call it – exit velocity in recent months, involving the adoption of over 80 reports in our last several part-sessions, bears testament to the general upscaling of Parliament's work in the course of its fifth mandate.
The key message of this mandate is that the European Parliament has shown itself to be a mature and reliable legislative partner for the Council and the Commission.
During the last 5 years, 403 codecision procedures and 86 sets of conciliation negotiations have been successfully concluded.
The legislative legacy of this Parliament from 1999 to 2004 is one that will improve the quality of life of our peoples and lay down the conditions for improved prosperity.
For example, in budget terms, the figures show clearly – and let this message be understood by the Council regarding the Constitutional Treaty – that this Parliament has been prudent in terms of discretionary expenditure of the Community budget, more prudent indeed than the other arm of the budget authority – the Council.
In summary, our Parliament has been an efficient lawmaker, a prudent budget-maker, the European Union's platform for executive accountability and an effective tribune for the peoples of Europe.
Inside Parliament I have had 90 meetings of the Conference of Presidents, covering 669 agenda items.
Outside Parliament in Strasbourg and Brussels I have made, on your behalf, 203 visits.
I have addressed this plenary over and above the normal duties of the chair on 24 occasions and I have made 130 major speeches outside this House on your behalf.
The work of the Vice-Presidents and the Bureau, the group leaders and the Conference of Presidents, the advance budgeting for pre-integration, all this meant that our work this week with our new Parliament of a Europe of 25 has proceeded without a hitch.
I am proud of that fact.
This did not happen by accident: it was part of a strategic political and administrative plan.
We brought the Europe of values.
Against expectations, the Convention formula, proposed by this Parliament and by our Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was adopted and, against many expectations, it proved to be an unqualified success.
The next Parliament would do well to invest yet more resources into communications, into selling our story – a story of which we can be proud.
However – and this is my strongest belief – there is no public relations or information campaign substitute for real politics based on conviction, passion and reason.
We are an indispensable link in an unbroken chain of democratic accountability between our constituents, regions, States and the European ideal.
As you know, from the outset this Parliament played a central role in ensuring that Assembly from day one will be an effective instrument of democratic dialogue and where pluralism is visible and real.
On reform, the last topic that I gave you promises on almost two and a half years ago, internally the Bureau has accomplished important work under the title of "Raising the Game" in terms of new internal structures, putting a new focus for the next mandate on assisting Members by providing legal and procedural advice on a scale and of a quality not available before.
An arrangement whereby Members of the same parliament have 25 different legal and financial regimes in my view is neither desirable nor tenable in the long term.
On the issue of expenses, important progress has been made by Parliament in reforming our rules and regulations to ensure greater transparency and accountability.
In that time policy and very many aspects of day-to-day life in our Member States through the Union has been Europeanised.
I thank the European Parliament and again I do not have enough words of thanks or praise for Julian Priestley, Harald Rømer, and wonderful leadership, professional leadership of a quality transnational world class public service.
Allow me to finish on a much more personal note.
Serving as a Member of the European Parliament for 15 years, as a Vice-President and President of the ELDR Group for more than seven years, as President of this House for almost two and a half years, has been the great experience of my life.
I want to thank the people of Munster for their consistent support over the years.
I thank my own supporters and my family, some of whom are here today.
You will always be numbered among the great Presidents of the European Parliament and you were lucky that your Presidency fell in a successful time, at a time when the constitution was being debated and when ten new Member States joined the European Union.
You have proven an outstanding President of our House, raising our profile, ensuring that our voice is heard in the Council and beyond.
I am proud that the first Liberal President of this House in 22 years should be one of its most successful.
You have shown that there are no small groups, only men and women with a devotion to duty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a Member and a President, you have set an example in the way in which you have acted on Parliament’s behalf.
Three times Parliament has rejected the Agreement between Europe and the United States on PNR data.
I do not wish to indulge in what some would consider an example of our mutual admiration society, which would strike me as somewhat excessive, but at the moment when you have decided to leave this House – to which you have brought a great deal, both as a Member and as its President, although we have disagreed on a number of points, which is part and parcel of a democratic chamber – I wish to bear witness to the high regard in which you are held within our group and to express our recognition for the way in which you have dealt with people who represent a minority in this House.
As for your political life, that is in the hands of others. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, towards the end of your speech you thanked the Group Presidents, but I should also like to remind you of the existence of the Non-attached Members – even though you are well aware of them.
Unfortunately the problems of my group – problems, let us say, of organisation in this Parliament – have not been resolved, although I am not holding it against you personally, Mr&#160;President, of course.
We had never before had an election campaign in the history of Parliament, says he who is now celebrating 25 years of being an MEP.
I hope that, as your final act, you can see to it that the Bureau makes some decisions concerning the reimbursement of travel expenses of which we need not be ashamed in the presence of our voters. &#160;&#160; The next item is the verification of the credentials of the new Members of the European Parliament.(1) &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it really is an honour and a pleasure for me to report on the confirmation of the mandate of 162 Members appointed by the ten new Member States as from 1&#160;May&#160;2004 and six Members elected in place of others who had previously stepped down.
In order to include the new Members, who belong to our Parliament as of 1&#160;May since the accession countries are now legally full members of the European Union, we carried out the vote in the Committee on Budgetary Control last Monday, 3&#160;May.
The result of the voting, in the form of nine reports – and I want to make this clear now and I will explain it in a moment – is before this House.
I would like to make it very clear that we have a great responsibility in voting now on the reports of the Committee on Budgetary Control since the members of the European Court of Auditors are appointed for six years.
They will, therefore, belong to the European Court of Auditors for six years, and so the Committee on Budgetary Control was also very conscientious and carried out a very careful investigation.
In the translations of the reports in a whole range of languages an incorrect verdict of the Committee on Budgetary Control was printed, which has now been corrected.
Since this is my last appearance in this Parliament, I would like to thank everyone in this House, including you, Mr&#160;President, for such fantastic cooperation and for an incredibly exciting time and I would like to wish all of you as individuals the very best for the future.
Predictably, the Council did not manage to reach agreement on genetically modified maize BT-11, and, in line with the procedures in force, it is the Commission alone that will decide.
We cannot, however, accept any procedure whereby Finland, after the departure of Erkki Liikanen, would be accorded a status inferior to that of other countries that have already changed their Commissioner.
This is an extremely perverse process, in which the Commission overrides the States, with their tacit approval, as regards a question that is crucial for public health and for the environment in our countries.
It is essential that we reform this process if we are to rediscover a Europe that conforms to the wishes of the European public. &#160;&#160; Parliament has completed its agenda.
