The problem is the unchecked rise in the price of oil, the increasing demand from a number of countries with rapidly growing economies, regional disturbances in oil-producing countries, as well as the fact that renewable sources of energy or natural gas will cover a mere fraction of Europe's energy needs.
The trafficking in children does exist.
The trafficking in children has atrocious consequences.
We are demanding that the European Commission take decisions that will enable the shipyard industry in Poland to be salvaged and developed. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your support for a review of Commission Regulation (EC) No 318/2007, or for the return to the original material from 2005, because of requests by breeding organisations trading in exotic birds in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and the Czech Republic.
Stamboliiski's lessons in statesmanship sound particularly relevant today, 85 years after his tragic death, when Bulgaria is a member of the European Union.
In my constituency local, small-trawler owners are paying a fuel bill of over EUR 2 000 per day.
I hope, Mr President, that this problem can be remedied, and that a remedy can also be found for the technological discrimination I encountered when I tabled a written question on 2 June in an open format - the ODF format - different from the Microsoft format which is currently in use.
We call on the workers to step up their struggle for real wage increases, pensions, social welfare benefits, and the abolition of VAT on common consumer goods, services of general interest and fuel, in a bid to reduce the prices of public utilities. (HU) On 15 May, a piece of legislation was created in the USA which is a milestone in the crisis surrounding illegal logging, which can be experienced worldwide.
The future of the European Union depends on the way children's rights are observed, and during their education we must have in mind an approach that forbids any form of violence. (PT) Eurofound recently reported that 25% of redundancies in Portugal between 2003 and 2006 stemmed from company relocations.
The 27 Member States are now building a new social Europe which will bring prosperity to all citizens of the European Union.
