Our committee has given a commitment to process this legislative proposal as rapidly and as diligently as possible, whilst adhering to the legislative procedures that have been laid down, according to which the vote will take place on 13 February in the Strasbourg part-session, as has already been scheduled on the agenda.
I wish to take this opportunity, Mr President - because lately these last minute rushes have become a regular occurrence - to say that the Commission and the Council are given considerable notice, a whole year' s notice, of Parliament' s timetable, which should give them - and us too - sufficient time to work on processing these proposals.
These included the ban on meat and bone meal and the testing of all animals over 30 months destined for the food chain.
The opinion of the Scientific Steering Committee on a number of BSE-related questions from the Commission was published on 17 January.
However Member States are prepared to accept virtually any measure to ensure that beef is now safe.
Equally, not all Member States implemented a ban on the feeding of meat and bone meal to ruminants in a satisfactory manner.
The processed meat industry has also called for this ban.
This is in keeping with the opinion of the Scientific Steering Committee.
A strict implementation of the Scientific Committee recommendations would require removal of vertebral column in animals aged over twelve months, as is currently the case in France.
The UK and Portugal are already required to provide such a report under the restriction measures on their exports of beef.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I know, Commissioner Byrne, that serious action is being taken in a bid to make preventive consumer protection a permanent feature of EU policy.
However, may I also state for the record that Parliament called back in November for all animals over 18 months old to be tested and, Commissioner, I see a danger here.
We risk destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs in Europe, which is why the Commission must also see if, as in France for example, we can spread the financial burden equally and fairly between everyone in the form of a surcharge, a meat tax or by charging value added tax on agricultural products, so that a reasonable solution can be found to the problem of disposal.
I have nothing against that, but I would like to move a wee bit faster here, because now is our chance: we are surrounded in the Member States by jittery meat markets and, as a result, we have got jittery agricultural ministers, jittery finance ministers - everyone has got the jitters.
We cannot differentiate between animal fats or gelatine on the basis, for example, of whether or not they reach the human food chain or whether or not they are used in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
Until such time as the Member States introduce comprehensive testing, and we know how slipshod testing can be, until such time as everything is tested comprehensively, including - and I agree with Mr Böge here - the animals taken from the market, then we shall never have a complete picture; until such time as there is comprehensive testing, we shall not know if Finland, Germany, Austria or Italy are BSE-free.
I believe that there are too few veterinarians in all the Member States, too few food inspectors, too few on-site inspections.
Mr President, the case we are now considering deserves to feature in a guide to what not to do in politics in terms of managing public affairs.
On the other hand, however, Agenda 2000 does not implement measures for the development of large-scale livestock breeding either.
It is to say the least disappointing, that some Member States were prepared to conceal the real incidence of BSE in their national herds and equally unwilling to implement the control measures proposed by the Commission and agreed by this Parliament.
What has come to the fore in recent months is a by now familiar subject, namely the monitoring by Member States of the application of Community measures.
Therefore, Commissioner, Parliament will constantly be urging you to action, but you can also count on our support in this uphill task.
For this reason, it is becoming a matter of urgency to reopen talks within the WTO and to rethink the Blair House agreements.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, here we are gathered once again to talk about BSE.
We must not let ourselves be engulfed in this wave of panic, because we bear political responsibility.
We must grasp this opportunity to redefine a European agricultural policy, without playing to the galleries in the manner of José Bové, but by developing a policy that fulfils the expectations of consumers and our farmers, to whom we are bound by a strong sense of solidarity.
Let us demonstrate the resolve to take these steps without delay in the general interests of the people of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, within the space of a few weeks the BSE phenomenon has developed dramatically and is now a virtually universal problem in Europe.
Let me also emphasise the need to establish greater solidarity between the various sectors within the CAP in each Member State, particularly by applying the cross-sector rules enshrined in Agenda 2000.
Is it sterilised enough at 133 degrees?
The second problem is the brain.
We still have a situation in which the brain from animals under 12 months old can be used.
I must correct him here: Parliament's resolution states that all animals which enter the food chain must be tested, starting at 18 months.
We want more credible answers.
Mr President, I would certainly like to emphasise the fact that there is a need - and this has been repeated on several occasions - to restore consumer confidence with regard to operators in the sector.
I did not hear Commissioner Byrne update us on that point in the statement he just made.
In particular, we demand measures designed to ensure maximum safety, even if they are a heavy burden on the Community budget.
Commissioner, I speak to you not as a neutral referee but as a representative of the executive institution of the European Union.
I am concerned, and this morning's speeches confirm this feeling of unease because the BSE problem, despite your explanations and the interventions you have mentioned - which are obviously a response to an economic crisis - represents a structural crisis to which we have yet to provide a response.
The very people and the very Member States who were shrugging off your warnings two years ago, who were denying you a qualified majority, as you said just a few months ago, are now clamouring for compensation and support as the beef market collapses and we face the prospect of millions of animals in store, unsellable, undisposable of over the next two years.
And if today the beef market is sound in Britain and beef consumption is rising, it is only because people have seen how draconian the measures need to be.
We see reports that some countries which claimed a year ago to be BSE-free, now anticipate up 500 cases in the course of the next year.
Mr President, Commissioner, the BSE crisis has simply highlighted and revealed to public opinion in Europe the fragility and lack of rigour in the way Member States' comply with and observe European rules on potentially dangerous materials used in the manufacture of animal feedingstuffs.
It is totally wrong for Member States now to blame the Commission when you were pointing out as long as a couple of years ago the problems that were going to occur.
What Member States have done by trying to make out which beef is the safest in Europe, is to destroy European beef.
I would urge, and I know Commissioner Byrne agrees with this, to have one policy throughout Europe.
If we do not, the European press will take each Member State in turn, they will look at the safety measures that are in those states and they will compare and then people' s confidence in beef in general will collapse.
Firstly, the Commission eventually adopted the Agriculture Committee' s proposal to use the scope that was left in the agricultural budget of EUR 970 million after all.
I should add straight away that this scope appeared to be a little bigger than it actually is now, given also the present state of the euro, which has already absorbed 250 million of that amount.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is basically an animal health problem that has assumed the proportions of a huge crisis because it has affected food safety, even though medical specialists say that it is not highly infectious.
We must acknowledge that it was a mistake to wait until 27 March 1996 to adopt emergency measures, starting with the ban on animals and meat meal from the United Kingdom and to give in to pressure by then derogating this decision two years later, on 16 March 1998.
Clear and practical rules are essential because there are fifteen countries, each with its own problems and in some countries - in my own, to be precise - in which responsibilities for control in this field lie with the seventeen autonomous governments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I should like to thank the Commission for the information which it has given us on the fight against BSE and to tell Commissioner Byrne that my impression is that he has the situation in hand and that his proposals are clear and decisive.
A few speakers have already referred to tests.
We will be repeating the same things in ten years' time because there have been considerable delays in conducting scientific research into prions.
We have known about prions for 15 years Commissioner Byrne, but after 15 years we do not know which molecular mechanisms are responsible for neurodegeneration, we do not know if they pass through the placenta barrier, we do not know if they pass into milk, we do not have rapid tests... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Nisticò, your question is not a point of order.
I would like to say by way of a preliminary reply to what has been said, that those who spoke on the question of consumer confidence are putting their finger on an issue that is of particular importance, in addition to the issues that we are addressing today relating to public health.
Mr Whitehead rightly observed that in the UK the level of consumer confidence is high.
That feeling has to be achieved in the rest of Europe, but it will take time because consumers do not have that sequence of events in their minds in the rest of the European Union and we all know why: because a number of Member States who declared themselves to be free of BSE within a very short space of time after making the declaration had to then admit that there was BSE in that Member State.
Testing at 30 months remains the norm, but will be kept under review.
The statistical sample is not big enough, but when it is we will draw those conclusions.
In relation third countries, I can say that the SRM decision that we made some time ago applies to third countries and to imports from third countries from 1 April next.
I have written to all third countries, alerted them to the Community measures and also advised them of the dangers of meat and bone meal.
The removal of the vertebral column has been a requirement from 1 October.
We do not have enough time to go into detail in relation to this but I repeat what I said earlier that this is an issue that we will have to give very careful consideration to.
This has been done on the basis of a random survey and this will help to revise the extent of the disease and give us more information.
The specific issue of the number of inspections will be addressed in the report that I am requesting Member States to furnish me with.
You will remember that I wrote to Member States on 4 January including an annex asking for detailed information.
In this context I should say that Franz Fischler and I have established a joint committee with our services to look into this very issue and to see to what extent adjustments need to be made so that we can achieve a situation whereby food is produced by more natural methods.
I am not fully convinced that has been fully addressed in the past and after my discussions with Franz Fischler we are now going to look at this more carefully.
Reports of the implementation measures will also oblige Member States to be very careful.
There was considerable discussion in the Council last Monday on this issue.
There are many complex issues which have to be addressed but I do not want to delay bringing forward the appropriate proposal for the pressure cooking of ruminant fat in the meantime.
I should say in the context of the Blair House Agreement, my colleague, Franz Fischler is well aware of the demands of farmers to renegotiate the Blair House Agreement.
Any increase in budget must now be agreed unanimously by all Member States.
That is a matter for each individual Member States.
I detected a mood in the Council last Monday that ministers accepted the proposition that we have to abandon unilateral measures in individual Member States and go forward with the measures that address the problem on a Europe-wide basis.
As I said earlier in this response, this is something that is being considered, was addressed by the Council last Monday and is being addressed in the context of further advice.
So we extend the definition of SRM to include mechanically recovered meat which then has to be disposed of in the way that the law requires.
Mr President, allow me to make a comment to Mr Byrne.
The debate on the statement by the Commission is closed.
Food safety must take priority in all our decisions because consumers have a right to safe, risk-free food.
Substances with a hormonal or thyrostatic action and beta-agonists as growth promoters in beef production have long-term effects and may therefore have repercussions on human health.
Compliance with the hormone ban must also be strictly controlled within the European Union.
It is therefore important that the provisional ban on the five other identified hormones, namely testosterone, progesterone, trenbolone acetate, zeranol and melengestrol acetate, should apply until the Community finds more complete scientific information from any source - particularly by means of a research programme of its own in this field - which could shed light on the gaps in the present state of knowledge on these substances and enable the EU to take a sufficiently well-founded decision to continue or lift the ban.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we now know that the use of certain substances in livestock can have very dangerous effects on the human organism.
Recent studies have shown that oestradiol 17â is carcinogenic.
It is therefore imperative that the use of this substance should be strictly prohibited in any livestock intended for human consumption and that all imports of meat from non-EU countries should be monitored.
Mr President, first of all I wish to thank the rapporteur Mr Olsson for his report and also the committees who gave their opinion on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 96/22 on the prohibition of the use of hormones in stock-farming.
This assembly is well aware that the current ban on use of hormones for growth promotion was challenged at the World Trade Organisation and that the final ruling in 1998 criticised the risk assessment on hormones used in food-producing animals presented by the European Community.
As you are aware, the Commission initiated a complementary risk assessment on these hormones in the light of the clarifications regarding risk assessment provided by the appellate body of the WTO.
This opinion was reviewed and confirmed in May 2000.
Secondly, the Commission proposed to maintain provisionally the current prohibition on the five other hormones until more complete scientific information is made available.
I would ask Parliament to reconsider its view on this issue, because I believe that it is of considerable importance that the question of comitology be seriously addressed in this issue.
It is also a major concern to me that so many people today will vote on an issue which is of considerable importance to consumer without knowing that they are putting in place a procedure which would put at risk consumer health by delaying the procedure under which I can, on the basis of clear scientific advice, put something into an annex which will protect consumer health.
Nor Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 14 which reject the introduction of the regulatory committee procedure for updating the lists of provisionally and definitively banned substances and which re-introduce the codecision procedure.
Amendment No 1 focuses on a well-founded decision on maintaining the ban.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 11 which insist on the need to introduce effective monitoring systems to protect health.
For instance meat imports are already controlled, notably according to the directive on controls and residues, Council Directive 96/23.
Finally, the Commission proposed that the provisions in the directive concerning oestradiol would not apply to animals treated for technical or therapeutical purposes before 1 July.
On the other hand the Commission can accept Amendment No 8 as well as in principle the part of Amendment No 10 dealing with scientific data because they introduce useful clarifications to the text.
In summary, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 as far as the point of comitology is concerned, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
On the other hand it can accept Amendment No 8 and in principle the part of Amendment No 10 dealing with scientific data.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
It is not, however, simply a question of considering issues such as books, electronic publishing, printing on demand and other such matters.
It makes no sense to adopt divergent or even perhaps contradictory measures for policies on electronic publishing and books, copyright or e-learning.
Finally we propose that a European Year of the Book and Literacy should be designated and that, every year, 23 April should be declared European Reading Day.
A revolution has taken place which makes books even more interesting, even richer, even more indispensable to each and every one of us.
We proposed 23 April, as it is Shakespeare' s birthday and the anniversary of Cervantes' death.
Thanks to Community support, the number of libraries in Greece will double between now and the year 2006, rising from 526 to 1170.
Over the same period, EUR 38 million will be devoted to the development of archives, libraries and reading under the operational programme on culture in Portugal, more than half of which will be financed from the European Regional Development Fund.
Madam President, I refuse to accept that there must inevitably be a technology gap between generations, between social strata, between those who are 'switched on' and those who are not, between those whose life and work will derive maximum benefit from digital technology and those for whom such technology will remain an object of fear and a threat to their place in society.
There is no doubt in my mind that this is the area in which the Commission has its most important role to play, and I was determined that the proposal for the implementation of the Culture 2000 programme in the year 2001 should provide for specific support for the realisation of several projects involving cooperation between authors and publishers.
Access to the Internet, to multimedia resources, will be made available in many public centres, including centres in disadvantaged areas, by the end of 2001 and to all school pupils by the end of 2002.
Thank you, Mrs Reding.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place very shortly.
Paragraph b) would include the entire first part up to 'Plan Colombia' and, in the second paragraph, the remainder of the text.
We can avoid the vote on Amendment No 1 by holding a split vote on the original text of paragraph b).
With regard to Amendment No 2 by the Group of the European People' s Party and the Group of the Party of European Socialists, if I understand correctly, the following would happen: we would initially hold a split vote on the original text, from "Whereas 'Plan Colombia' " up to "social partners" .
In other words, we will first hold a spit vote on the original text and then vote on Amendment No 2 as an appendix to the paragraph.
Mr President, I was the shadow rapporteur for the PSE on this.
As the notes in front of you say there was a mistake by the services and in fact the wording that was put in by both the PPE and ourselves was not reflected in what was printed.
Jarzembowski report (A5-0013/2001) Mr President, I voted in favour of amending the directive on the development of the Community's railways.
It goes without saying that we are solidly behind these workers and their unions in their condemnation of these abominations.
I would like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction at the decision, also adopted in Turin, to reopen the Mount Blanc road tunnel after the summer.
I feel that, in setting limits on the number of lorries which can use the tunnel, the French and Italian authorities have exercised good sense.
Wieland report (A5-0012/2001) Mr President, I voted for the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications for nurses, pharmacists, doctors, midwives, veterinary surgeons, etc.
McNally report (A5-0006/2001) Mr President, I voted for the report concerning the energy efficiency labelling programme for office computers.
I hope that cooperation will be intensified in future to bring about also a direct action to improve the standards of living of the elderly in these countries.
Despite this, the Commission and rapporteur have discovered a legal basis in Articles 133 and 308.
The Commission should represent the EU Member States at WTO level.
Muscardini report (A5-0008/2001) Mr President, I voted in favour of the strategy presented by the Council concerning relations with Mediterranean countries.
However, if I may dwell on the importance of the Mediterranean to the European Union, it was high time that the European Council adopted a common strategy for that region.
The outcome of Mrs Muscardini' s work has fully justified all those who, from the outset, supported her appointment as rapporteur, as there was only one vote in the Committee against her report and no abstentions.
I, or rather we, therefore owe my friend and colleague, Cristiana Muscardini, our heartiest congratulations.
Naïr report (A5-0009/2001) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Barcelona Process and I would like to see it accelerated by this document.
First of all, let me emphasise that the aim set forth in the Commission communication "Reinvigoration of the Barcelona Process" was twofold: to draw up a balance sheet of the Barcelona Process and to formulate recommendations in preparation for the ministerial conference in Marseilles in November 2000.
For my part, I suggest that we start by intervening in a more proactive manner in the political arena.
The new international situation undoubtedly presents an opportunity that we must grasp.
The European Union has a role to play in the Middle East peace process.
This means recognising that Israel and all the other States in the region have a right to security and that the Palestinian people have a legitimate right to live in a viable and internationally recognised State of their own.
The European Union must also invest more financial and human resources and promote interregional cooperation and the involvement of civil society.
Lastly, while the rapporteur recognises the Palestinians' right to their own state, he makes no mention of their legitimate demands, namely the release of all political prisoners and the right of return for refugees.
Resolution on Plan Colombia (B5-0087/2001) We have voted in favour of the Plan Colombia resolution in order to denounce the plan which was put in place by the United States and which, on the pretext of combating traffic in drugs, is resulting in the forced displacement of local populations, mostly peasant farmers, in order to boost the profits of the major landowners.
We are against US military intervention in Colombia, just as we are against British intervention in Sierra Leone and French intervention, whether direct or indirect, in Rwanda, the Congo or Zaire.
By proposing a resolution designed to bolster the peace process in Colombia, the Committee on Development and Cooperation has dissociated itself from the murderous intent of Plan Colombia.
We are being deprived because we have no explanation of how he voted on the Plan Colombia.
If I have chosen to vote in favour of this report and its recommendations but not in favour of paragraph 5 concerning a common Public Prosecutor' s Office for the EU, it is because we in Denmark have been afflicted in recent years by a large number of foreign criminals whom our old-fashioned judicial system and unduly lenient legislation are in no position to stop.
But we opposed paragraph 5 calling for a (European) "Public Prosecutor' s office with jurisdiction over the Member States' territory as a whole" , implying that the European-level prosecutor would substitute for national prosecuting authorities.
We accepted paragraph 11 (b) as meaning an alignment of national definitions of serious offences so that criminals cannot escape justice by exploiting loopholes, but we are clear this does not mean the harmonisation of all national justice systems.
We accepted paragraph 8 since we support a sensible rationalisation of working languages for essential cross-border cooperation between professionals such as judges and prosecutors on matters like extradition warrants.
There are no means to enforce respect for agreed judicial assistance measures, as there would be if the area fell within Community competence. . (DE) The European Parliament calls in this motion for a resolution for the Treaty on European Union to be revised in order to give the European Court of Justice powers to investigate if Member States are honouring their commitments under European legislation in this area.
Finally, I should like to point out to the rapporteur and the Members of the House that the first two main concerns listed in the explanatory statement as regards the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg no longer apply since the law passed on 8 August last year.
Paragraph 7 expresses the wish to find a legal framework for the problems which are bound to arise on this new market.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the document on electronic publishing, which I read with great interest, considering the reasons I could give for voting for the motion.
I welcome the emphasis the document puts on linguistic and cultural diversity and the important contribution of the written word to the development of culture in the different European regions.
E-publishing is especially important for books with a limited market, academic books and books in lesser-used languages are in this category.
