Gas supplies by Russia to Ukraine and the EU (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on gas supplies by Russia to Ukraine and the EU.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, the Council would like to thank the European Parliament for placing this item on the agenda of its first part-session this year.
The European Union is undoubtedly facing a major gas supply disruption as a result of the dispute between the Russians and the Ukrainians and between the Gazprom and Naftogaz organisations.
The Council and the Commission were aware of the potential problem.
I would like to stress in particular the difficult situation of countries like Bulgaria or Slovakia.
Contacts, therefore, took place at the highest level prior to 1 January 2009 in order to avert the disruption of supply.
Both prior to and after 1 January 2009, the presidency and the Commission - working very closely with Andris Piebalgs - received assurances from both actors that gas deliveries to the EU would not be affected.
As you know, the Czech presidency, together with the Commission and with the aid of some Member States, has been in contact with both the Ukrainians and the Russian gas companies and travelled several times in order to meet with both sides.
Rather, we have emphasised to both parties the gravity of the situation, stressing the fact that the credibility and dependability of Russia as a supplying country and of Ukraine as a transit country are both clearly damaged.
On 1 January 2009, Russia announced it had stopped deliveries of gas to Ukraine, whilst keeping deliveries to the EU at full level.
That same day, the Czech presidency and the Commission issued a statement calling on both sides to look for a prompt solution and honour their contractual obligations towards EU consumers.
They also visited the dispatching centre and then the next day they travelled to Berlin to meet the Gazprom representative on 6 January 2009.
After several trips by Prime Minister Topolánek to Kiev and Moscow and difficult negotiations with President Yushchenko and Prime Minister Tymoshenko and also Prime Minister Putin in Moscow, the agreement was eventually signed on 12 January and created a legal basis for the deployment of the monitors, and asked for the resumption of Russian gas supplies to the EU.
A further meeting of the Gas Coordination Group on Monday 19 January now looks likely.
The Energy Council, the TTE, will revisit the issue at its scheduled 19 February meeting through the conclusions it will adopt on the Commission's Communication on the Second Strategic Energy Review.
The failure to respect the agreement of 12 January by either Russia or the Ukraine would, in the view of the presidency and the Commission, be unacceptable.
However, neither we nor the Commission intend to intervene in the negotiations on the contractual conditions between the two commercial subjects.
Secondly, solidarity presupposes interconnections of European energy networks, as well as improvements in energy infrastructure.
Finally, in order to boost energy security the EU should strengthen the transparency mechanism and so on.
I think the Community is prepared for the situation both politically and technically.
If we do not have results, it will inevitably have political consequences in our relations with both countries.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, we are currently living through one of the most severe energy crises in European history, comparable with the oil crises that we had in the 1970s and 1980s.
We were able to mobilise a team composed of Commission officials and industry experts in 24 hours and they were already in Russia and Ukraine last Saturday to enable the flow of gas to resume as soon as the protocol was signed.
But I believe that we have provided answers for security of supply in the Second Strategic Energy Review, in the work Parliament and the Council have done on the energy and climate change package.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, this major disruption in supply is a dramatic one for European citizens, European industries and European jobs and it comes on top of the economic crisis.
I have two questions for the President-in-Office and the Commission.
The talks we have held with the representatives of Gazprom and Naftogaz - Russia and Ukraine, in other words - have confirmed our impression that both sides are behaving irresponsibly.
We have also known for at least two months that agreement was not reached by the deadline of 1 November that was laid down at the beginning of October.
I must add, Commissioner, that we have perhaps spent a little too much time discussing liberalisation and markets - particularly in the gas sector, as you are well aware.
The same is true of the gas reserves, of course.
It is absolutely unacceptable for many countries to have few or no gas reserves or even refuse to notify the Commission of such reserves.
The clear lesson from this crisis is that the Nabucco pipeline needs to become a true alternative, and must therefore be given financial support.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the gas crisis in Europe is a permanent one and much more profound than the European political elites would present it.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I too wish to start by saying that the Czech Republic has had a very tough start to its Council Presidency and that, in connection with this new gas crisis, it could not have done any more in recent weeks to put right the lack of clarification in matters of European external energy policy that there has been in previous years.
Over and above this debate about Russian gas, Europeans collectively must answer the question as to what relationship they actually want to have with Russia in future.
This is much more than a trade dispute, and I think that the Czech Presidency has steered us through it well over these last few days.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioners, President-in-Office of the Council, the Commission has taken on the role of mediator in the dispute over gas between Russia and Ukraine and done its best to start deliveries.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I quote from a speech made on this subject by my colleague, Godfrey Bloom, on 25 October 2006: 'The thought, the idea or the concept that the United Kingdom's energy supplies could possibly be controlled by some sort of arrangement with a gangster like Putin is absolutely ludicrous.
It is the price of our uncritical support for the orange segment in the Ukrainian political spectrum, and for trying to manage policy on Eastern Europe from Brussels.
It is not difficult to figure out the Russia agenda in all this, but I was particularly struck by the idea floated in the press that Gazprom urgently needs to make a deal based on higher gas prices, linked to last year's oil price high, before those gas prices come down following the oil price fall.
Looking at the Nord Stream and Nabucco pipeline projects in a more favourable light seems logical.
Much of what we already discussed in 2006 has eventually failed to have any effect.
This agreement was underlined by a formal agreement between Gazprom and the Ukrainan Naftogaz.
This type of blackmail is possible because Gazprom has a monopolistic hold over Ukraine.
This means that unlike petroleum, there is no free market for gas in Europe.
This situation has to be changed through diversification of gas suppliers, and by building a transmission network within the European Union and among neighbouring countries so that, as with oil, there is a true pan-European gas market, which will curb the potential for monopolistic pricing blackmail. (PL) Mr President, this gas crisis shows how important it is for the European Union to speak in one voice on the matter of gas supplies, particularly gas supplies from Russia, which is not a reliable partner and supplier.
I call for the implementation of all the demands contained in the report of 8 July last year, which stated that the European Union should be genuinely and truly integrated. (PL) Mr President, several politicians have spoken in the debate on gas on one side or the other of the conflict.
The situation is also evidence of the European Union's deficient energy policy.
We have reached a situation where the only alternative has been to make Central Europe dependent on the East, the situation of poor Slovakia being a case in point. - (SK) In connection with the Ukrainian-Russian conflict involving gas supplies I would like, as an MEP representing the citizens of the Slovak Republic, to draw the European Union's attention to the fact that this conflict of interests affects not only the two parties that are blaming one another for the mess, but also a third party whose citizens are becoming the victims, as there is still no prospect of Russian gas being delivered through Ukraine.
I would also like to emphasise that as a result of our dependence on Russian gas and the impossibility of reopening the V1 nuclear power plant at Jaslovské Bohunice, the energy security of the Slovak Republic is increasingly under threat.
I am also in favour of the notion of a work group set up under Article 175 that would report back to this Parliament, in May, for example.
The Russian and Ukrainian delegations should also be present.
Gas is flowing, however, through other transit countries.
One possibility would also be to set up a syndicate to administer the flow of gas through Ukraine: that would be a quick and urgent measure.
The mediation in the gas war between Russia and Ukraine will give the EU a good opportunity to demand that both parties follow rules that are compatible with a common energy market within the Union.
We must take advantage of this opportunity. (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to look at this problem in a broader political context.
In reality, the so-called Russo-Ukrainian gas war is one of the stages in the fight for influence in Europe.
Both Ukraine and Georgia are states that we should gladly have on our side, but Russia wants to renew its former influence over them.
This type of political technology also has enough resources to influence processes in countries in which it has an interest, and, unlike us, it plans and forecasts events.
The general opinion is that Bulgaria was the country most affected by the gas crisis.
This source is the Kozloduy nuclear power plant.
There is a Europe-Russia dispute having as its object the geopolitical status of Ukraine, a European Union-Ukraine dispute having as its object the European perspectives of Ukraine, a European Union-Russia dispute having as its object the Russian monopoly on the gas supply and a European Union-Ukraine dispute having as its object the Ukrainian monopoly on gas transit.
Gas must continue to flow and in the short term it is, to my mind, especially important that all diplomatic paths be negotiated.
We managed to lower temperatures in Europe and bring in a winter that has affected the entire continent.
At the moment, citizens in 18 Member States are being held hostage in the political dispute between Ukraine and Russia.
I use the term 'political dispute' because we all witnessed how Gazprom and the energy supplies from Russia are being used as a political weapon to exert pressure on a sovereign state.
Yes, Ukraine does bear some guilt and so, I appeal to both the Council and the European Commission to tell our friends in Ukraine in no uncertain terms that unless both the opposition and government adopt a united stand on the key issues affecting their development, they will not be able to cope with this pressure which is being exerted on them and us respectively.
Just as we have a consensus in our countries on key issues, they too must have a consensus on key issues.
Secondly, Gazprom must pay our countries penalties because at the moment Bulgaria, which is the most seriously affected country in Europe and is totally dependent on the gas energy supplies in Russia, must claim its rights and must claim them against the supplier, which is Russia in this case.
We must clearly say 'yes' to nuclear energy in Europe, 'yes' to alternative energy sources, 'yes' to the different pipelines which make us less dependent on a single supplier, 'yes' to bigger storage facilities and 'yes' to more links between Member States so that we can avoid a similar type of crisis.
For Bulgaria, the EU country most affected by this, it is especially important for the principle of Pacta sunt servanda to be observed and for the gas supplies to be restored immediately.
Now more than ever, the European Union needs to put into practice the old motto of solidarity proclaimed by the Musketeers: 'All for one and one for all' and provide financial aid to countries that have suffered, like Bulgaria, for vitally important projects which will provide it with energy security.
It is high time to demonstrate the strength and unity of our union by adopting a long-term energy strategy. (LT) It is clear that this gas supply crisis is a political problem, not a commercial dispute.
Both Gazprom and the Naftogaz company are carrying out the principal task in this conflict - trying to prove to all of us and society how impossible transit is in a technical, technological and economic sense.
It seems to me that they are aiming to buy time in these negotiations and I believe that only political measures will help solve the political problem until the technical questions surrounding transit are resolved.
We must put our own European interests first and without delay. (PL) Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, Russia's behaviour in shutting off the gas to customers in the European Union is intolerable from the viewpoint of the contractual undertakings signed by Russia.
Premier Putin's decision to halt supplies before the TV cameras is not only in breach of signed contracts, but also shows that Gazprom is not a business operating under market principles, but a firm carrying out the Kremlin's political behest.
This debate should send out a clear signal to Russia and Ukraine to immediately reinstate gas supplies.
This is why the European economic recovery plan must take into account through financial support the current needs for building an alternative energy infrastructure, especially for the most dependent countries, like Bulgaria.
We call on the European Parliament to adopt a clear position supporting coordinated actions taken by all the institutions aimed at resolving this gas crisis and preventing a recurrence of such a crisis in the future. (SL) The transport of Russian gas across Ukraine is not just a bilateral issue or a commercial dispute.
Let us intensify our diplomatic efforts.
As regards gas, I would like to mention two priority areas, in particular: the use of liquefied gas and the Nabucco pipeline project.
The Nabucco project must be given precedence over the North Stream and South Stream projects, not only at a European level, but also at the level of each Member State.
I would also like to ask what additional action the Commission has taken in order to prevent these kinds of difficulties recurring in 2010, and to give us some indication of when gas is likely to start flowing into the Union again. (HU) Madam President, now that gas delivery is expected to resume as a result of the initially hesitant but ultimately coordinated, decisive intervention by the European Union and in spite of various technical and other supposed problems, we can breathe a sigh of relief, but we cannot rest on our laurels.
In addition, the gas crisis has once again demonstrated our dependency and vulnerability.
The Nabucco pipeline represents a long-term solution, while development of the networks connecting the new Member States could already begin today, using the EUR 5 billion designated for the purpose in the economic stimulus programme.
Secondly, we should turn our attention much more to liquefied gas (LNG), seeing as it is much more flexible and leaves us far less vulnerable.
I believe that for the good of its economy and of its people, Russia should pay attention to the market and to its image as a trustworthy partner.
I believe that the Russians will ultimately discover this truth, and Europe will consider Russia and become a good mediator. - (SK) Gazprom and Naftagas are gambling with the trust of European consumers.
However, I cannot agree with the political tone expressed by the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Vondra in his introductory remarks.
There is of course a good reason why the Commission's action plan on energy efficiency has an international element to it and recognises the importance of encouraging energy efficiency improvements in countries outside Europe, not least countries supplying and transiting energy to Europe.
That is important above and beyond the immediate political side to this crisis. (HU) Madam President, I suggest that we speak clearly.
The European Union has not learned from its experience in the 2006 gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine, and failed badly in the present crisis.
This energy supply crisis, the most serious to date, may be the final wake-up call for Member States, and we must take steps to reduce our energy dependency.
I trust that it is now clear to everyone that the conflict that has erupted between Russia and Ukraine is not merely a private bilateral legal dispute, if only because it affects hundreds of millions of citizens of the European Union.
I thank him for explaining the gravity of the situation, but when is the Council going to learn that until the EU speaks with one voice on energy issues, in particular in relation to Russia and the Ukraine, we are going to be in a weak position?
You must answer the European citizens as to why they are now sitting in the cold.
But I think this summary of how we have been acting since the early morning of 1 January was worthwhile.
Speaking with one voice is exactly what we are trying to do in this adventure.
I think we are quite successful in doing that for the time being.
Yes, you are right that there are countries which are better equipped, even in that particular region, for that kind of emergency situation.
It is a political problem because people are freezing so it is a politically difficult situation.
Of course I agree with those, like Jacek Saryusz-Wolski or István Szent-Iványi, who argue that this is a kind of cynical game and, in fact, at the heart of this is the fight about who is going to control the infrastructure in the country in question.
But then we should be aware of the fact that Bulgaria and Slovakia are in a terrible situation, because suddenly there is a country that wants to exploit this difficult situation and to put those countries into conflict with Ukraine.
I think this is important on both sides.
From the foreign policy point of view, there are many consequences and we started to look into these consequences in 2006 when we had the first wake-up call.
Concerning the bilateral relationships - EU-Russia or EU-Ukraine - I think it is clear that the energy supply and transit aspects of the new agreements currently being negotiated have taken on a new importance and will be there.
We have already been working with many Arab countries on initiatives to get gas, via Turkey, hopefully to a Nabucco pipeline.
That means that diversification of pipelines, sources and, of course, of different energy - as has been said here - will be the way to go in the future.
We should revisit some of our stereotypes, because if 2006 could be called a wake-up call, this is a real shock.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Thursday 15 January 2009).
It is obvious that we must speed up the process of creating a common European energy policy, based inclusively on a common external approach.
We must expedite the process of diversifying supply sources and transit routes for natural gas.
I think that the Energy Commissioner must submit a report detailing the actions which have been taken or, more precisely, which have NOT been taken by the Commission to support the Nabucco project during the last year.
in writing. - (PL) In today's debate much has been said about gas supplies and the links, interconnections and dependency of the European economies.
At present, 11 of the 27 EU countries have been affected as a result of supplies being cut off.
However, the dependency on Russian gas is a common security problem, bearing in mind that the energy weapon can be used at any time, especially against Russia's former satellite states.
in writing. - Another wake-up call.
The construction of the Nabucco project should be speeded up and the money for this project should be enhanced by involving the EIB in its funding.
Nowadays, almost half of the EU's energy is dependent on imports, with the forecasts indicating to us that imports will account for 70% of the natural gas supply and 100% of the oil supply by 2030.
I think that before examining the non-compliance with international treaties and agreements and the fact that the supplier which receives the largest share of its revenue from gas exports treats Europeans, who are paying reliably for this gas, with indifference and disinterest, we must look at solutions for the EU's energy security. , in writing. - (HU) The European Union has not learned from its experiences in the 2006 gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine.
in writing. - (PL) It appears that the present crisis in the supply of gas to Ukraine and to Europe has far greater ramifications than previous crises which were the result of the same problem of Russia's monopolistic position in gas supplies to the EU.
We do not even need to know the real reasons behind Russia's behaviour to draw our conclusions.
The truth is important, but it will not deliver gas.
It is yet another turning point, and should be the last one that exposes the lack of governance of 27 countries.
This is what the people of Europe expect, even in those countries not directly affected by the gas blockade, and which are less reliant on supplies from Gazprom.
The mechanism of solidarity, sketched out in the 2004 directive, is wholly unsuited to today's challenges.
We need to secure ourselves against a future crisis by increasing our gas storage capability.
But the debate is very important, albeit inadequate.
I would like to thank all fellow Members from various political groups and Member States for their expressions of support for Bulgaria and the other countries which suffered from the crisis.
As a result of this crisis, Bulgaria has turned from being an energy centre in the Balkans into a gas crisis capital.
These measures must include nuclear energy and a quest for new sources of natural gas.
We need a new action mechanism and set of tools.
The current crisis has highlighted once again that the main problem is dependency on the energy resources located in the Russian Federation and the use of this situation by the Russian Federation in a manner which lies outside standard international procedures.
The declarations made by the President of the European Commission and the President of the Council during the time of the crisis in Georgia referring to a change in the EU's relationship with Russia need to be put into practice.
Thanks to this war over gas provision, energy matters have risen to the forefront, especially the realisation of the need for a common energy policy.
In this sense, a common policy must arise from the capital cities of the Member States, not from the corridors of power in Brussels, as one would anticipate.
The current situation clearly shows how dependent Europe is not only on the source of the resources, but also on the transit countries.
It also shows how unjust the criticisms have been about the alternative pipelines, such as the Nord Stream and South Stream pipelines.
Unfortunately, it highlights too how helpless the European Union is in providing assistance to its Member States which were most affected and in guaranteeing its citizens' security.
Our basic task now is to restore gas supplies.
The EU also needs to utilise its entire political resources to persuade Russia and Ukraine to free the 18 Member States which they are holding hostage.
The third and most important measure in a long-term plan is the construction of the alternative gas pipelines, especially Nabucco, investment in connecting up the Member States' gas supply networks and the building of storage facilities to ensure larger reserves.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the matter of the crisis in gas supplies to the EU, in Ukraine and in the Balkans should be viewed primarily as an element in the struggle for political and economic influence in the former Soviet republics.
The country that is being fought over now is Ukraine.
The present conflict also shows that this kind of geopolitical influence is more important to Russia than good relations with the EU.
The issue of Ukraine and the European Union being supplied gas by Russia must be resolved as quickly as possible.
The European Union needs an energy security policy, as well as a diversification of its resources and solidarity in the energy sector in order to prevent such crises which affect its citizens.
In Bulgaria, the supply of gas to industry has been reduced or interrupted as this country is 90% dependent on gas from Russia.
This crisis must be resolved as soon as possible because it is affecting both Europe's citizens and its industry.
