I also wish to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for their efforts.
Most measures drawn up at EU level were not geared towards protecting the marine environment as such and they therefore have a limited impact.
It has been demonstrated that measures adopted at international level are very difficult to implement or promote because they are not binding.
A dynamic marine economy can flourish only where there is a healthy marine environment.
The purpose of this Marine Strategy Directive is to achieve 'good environmental status' in the EU marine environment by 2021, in other words to restore the environmental health of our seas over the next 15 years.
In the first phase, the Member States will be tasked with developing a marine strategy for the seas in each of their regions, and proposing practical solutions to address the specific needs of those seas.
Cooperation is of vital importance between Member States and with the third countries with which Member States share saltwater bodies.
The marine environment is clearly the foundation of our marine economy.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all, as rapporteur, to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs from the various groups and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for supporting a joint piece of work aimed at enhancing the Commission proposal.
The quality of the marine ecosystem plays a fundamental role in the planet's global environment and, in particular, plays a very important role in regulating the climate.
We are also at a time when we can see new threats looming, which the directive must anticipate.
As the Commissioner has rightly said, for some time we have needed a strong, integrated EU policy on marine protection.
The time limits and schedules for achieving good environmental status have been tightened up, from 2021 to 2017.
Preparation timetables are tighter, as are programmes of measures.
More emphasis is given to cooperation by Member States in the same marine region in monitoring programmes, etc.
Provision has been made, for administrative expenses alone, for approximately EUR 90 million per annum for the first two years and for EUR 70 million per annum thereafter.
We must come to an agreement with them; they must be persuaded that, first of all, they need to protect the environment, but that is not all; all of us involved in transport, tourism, industry, health, nutrition, agriculture and, above all, fisheries, must sit at the same table, so that we can agree and proceed.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FI) Mr President, first I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, and at the same time I want to thank the Commission, which has embarked on this important project.
The Baltic Sea is seriously ill.
There are toxic algae in the sea, and that can cause various diseases in children if they go and swim in the sea in warm weather.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FI) Mr President, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe's marine regions are in a crisis and there is an urgent need to take action to protect the seas.
Over the next 50 years, for example, fish stocks are threatened with collapse.
Marine regions vary in terms of their characteristics, and at least some of the problems are essentially local.
The protection of the seas is about cooperation, not just among the Member States of the EU, but also with third countries with links to marine regions.
For example, effective protection of the Baltic Sea region cannot succeed without Russia's commitment to cooperation.
HELCOM is presently overseeing a Baltic Sea Action Plan.
However, why were those ideas not in the Commission's original document?
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteurs for their exemplary work and their excellent reports.
They improve the Commission's proposal by demanding that good environmental status be achieved by 2017 instead of 2021.
When fish are protected and are thus able to increase in numbers, the older fish disperse and make for better catches.
The countries around the Baltic Sea must always be entitled to introduce more stringent water protection requirements if they think it necessary to do so without, as a consequence, being constantly threatened by protracted legal proceedings because the internal market has to take precedence over protection of our seas.
My Amendments 81 and 82 are designed to introduce responsible regulation of discharges from waste disposal sites.
Furthermore, actions by the Member States must be based on the principle of prevention, on an approach based on the ecosystem while, at the same time, account must be taken of accurate evaluations carried out on the basis of current European legislation, as referred to in Amendments 23, 49, 45, 51 and 60.
Finally, I call on you to support Amendments 81 and 82 banning any systematic or deliberate dumping of any liquid, gaseous or solid body in the water or on the sea bed, in keeping with the provisions laid down for carbon dioxide, except where the relevant approval is granted in accordance with international law and a prior environmental impact study is carried out in accordance with the directive.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two reports under discussion could not have come at a better time, since they examine the notorious construction of the Baltic pipeline, a project that, in the absence of a serious environmental impact assessment, risks causing an ecological disaster in a sea already suffering, moreover, from a worrying level of pollution.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the marine environment has faced various threats for a long time now, which is why a far-reaching marine strategy is a necessity.
The North Sea's ecology must be considered holistically in North Sea terms.
Firstly, it should support a considerably accelerated process, whereby the measures are implemented earlier, together with a timetable significantly more ambitious than the one proposed by the Commission, specifying precisely when the objective of good environmental status in our seas is to be achieved.
Secondly, it should support more clearly defined objectives that, just as Mrs Lienemann said, are a guarantee of our in actual fact achieving something and are not, in the end, just so much empty talk.
These measures are needed if the Baltic Sea is to be saved. (SV) Mr President, two weeks ago, Nicholas Stern, a former World Bank employee, published, on behalf of the British Government, a shocking report on the consequences of climate change.
They are all aimed at increasing the level of ambition, bringing stricter timetables about, strengthening cooperation with third countries such as Russia and plugging loopholes in the legislation.
One serious loophole, for example, is in relation to the international waters that begin 12 nautical miles off the coast.
Out in the Baltic, 1 800 vessels are dumping in more ways than one all the time.
The EU must support Russia in its efforts to cleanse St Petersburg of all waste water.
The objective must be to protect Europe's seas and restore them to their former state and to ensure that human activities are conducted in a sustainable way.
Scotland has oil and gas reserves for at least another 30 years.
I cannot support committee Amendment 8 in the Lienemann report, as drafted, because it seeks to link the marine strategy to 'the principles of the common fisheries policy'.
The aim pursued in the two combined legislative arrangements on the thematic strategy on the protection and conservation of the environment and the marine strategy directive is to achieve a good environmental status of the marine environment in the European Union by 2021.
More importantly, the pillars on which both the thematic strategy and the proposal for a directive are based are the common fisheries policy and the Green Paper on the European Union's shipping policy, all - of course - within the framework of the 6th Environment Action Programme for the period from 2002-2012, which we have acutely condemned.
In our opinion, these are in essence numerous, insubstantial interventions on the same wavelength as the Commission proposal, the most daring and ambitious aim of which is to bring the deadline forward from 2021 to 2017. (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Mr President, I would like warmly to congratulate Mrs Lienemann, and I am not doing so in a superficial way or because protocol requires it.
I think that this Directive has achieved something important.
This is something that needs to be developed in order to preserve our heritage and I think that it will be one of the most stimulating discoveries for all of us. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate my honourable friend Mrs Lienemann on her complete and detailed work.
The basic objective must be to clearly define the term good environmental status of marine ecosystems, so as to achieve a cohesive and effective marine policy at European Union level.
I believe that adopting protected marine areas, as a tool for protecting ecosystems and combating the reduction in biodiversity, will also help considerably in achieving this objective.
This practice has been carried out for many years by individuals, companies and governments, who have shown little knowledge of or regard for the enormous diversity and importance of marine ecosystems.
After all, the protection of our marine environment is an essential element in safeguarding our own survival on this planet. (NL) Mr President, first of all, my heartfelt compliments to Mrs Lienemann, who really has written an excellent report.
As many speakers have pointed out, time is extremely short.
A gas pipeline in the sensitive Baltic Sea constitutes a considerable threat to the environment.
In my opinion, the risks are manifestly greater than the advantages.
Certainly, Europe needs energy supplies, but this natural gas pipeline must not be laid on the bed of the Baltic Sea.
In the timetable for implementation (Amendments 20, 24, 31, 32, 35 and 69), the Commission chose the year 2021 as the date by which the Member States have to achieve 'good environmental status' of their marine environments.
In the Water Framework Directive, successfully adopted in 2000 due to the fact that Mrs Lienemann was the rapporteur, 'good environmental status' is called for by 2015, that is to say, 15 years after the adoption of the directive.
The Marine Directive should operate in the same way.
The Commission is prepared to support the insertion of an article stressing the importance of marine protected areas (Amendments 27, 39, 62 and 72).
Such an article should ideally be based on Article 6 of the Water Framework Directive on protected areas.
This is a dangerous approach because some potential risks and threats may be omitted or, on the other side of the coin, unduly emphasised.
Lastly, with regard to financial matters, (Amendments 19 and 74), there are a number of EU funding mechanisms from which the Member States can benefit, for example the Structural Funds, LIFE+ and the Seventh Framework Programme for Research.
It is therefore extremely important that the Commission impose significant restrictions if and when this happens, because the future environment we are all to live in is also of great public interest. (IT) Europe is surrounded by four seas and two oceans, containing different types of ecosystems and different biogeographical regions.
