Life assurance The next item is the report (A5-0072/2001) by Lord Inglewood, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive concerning life assurance [COM(2000) 398 - C5-0351/2000 - 2000/0162(COD)].
The source text dates as far back as 1979 and, apart from the codification process of incorporating amendments that have been made over that period into the legislative text, the reason for this more substantive report is that the Commission has found it necessary to propose a number of amendments to reflect changes that have taken place in the market since that time and to improve the overall quality and integrity of the text.
Those of you that are experts on the subject will clearly want to refer to the Commission's own text and the Commission has provided an extremely helpful and clear explanatory statement for those of us who are not, unlike Lord Inglewood, distinguished lawyers - which is why he has been able to make such a good job of scrutinising this text on behalf of Parliament.
Lord Inglewood has taken soundings of the industry.
It is worthwhile reminding colleagues throughout the House who are working on legal texts that this is a principle that we all need to bear in mind when we are amending legislative texts of any kind.
In many cases we see far too many complicated texts coming out of work done by this House.
It is an important principle - maybe this is an uncontroversial issue but the principle of the quality and clarity of legislative instruments is important.
It is possible that when the pensions fund directive is accepted, insurance companies that are active in the third pillar and therefore also subject to the life assurance directives will in future be subject to the pension funds directive for their company pensions business.
We hope that your visit to the European Parliament will be both enjoyable and fruitful and we look forward to seeing you again soon. (Loud applause) The proposal for a directive recasting the three generations of life insurance directives is a response to pressure from Parliament, Council, industry and consumers, in fact anyone who has to deal day-to-day with the complexities of the Community insurance legislation.
Mr Karas has just asked for texts to be as clear and transparent as possible and that was the Commission's aim in the text which is in front of you.
Mr Harbour also just said that this is a good model for other legislation and I entirely agree with him.
It is an example of efficiency which Parliament may well want to adopt in other instances as well.
It therefore calls for more expeditious consideration than a normal legislative proposal and that is what has happened.
That would be a very good example of a fast-track procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken today at noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an excellent framework directive on water, stipulating that water management should be conducted in terms of individual river basins.
The Spanish government tried in vain to block this framework directive on water because of its National Hydrological Plan.
This megalomaniac and wrong-headed plan of the Aznar government aims to pipe water from the River Ebro over 900 kilometres down the coast to Southern Spain.
The European Parliament mentioned this idea in January 1998 in its resolution on the technological feasibility of trans-European hydraulic networks.
In addition, however, and it is important to stress this, it is obviously completely out of the question to take over a Member State' s water resources unless that Member State gives its express consent.
Almost three years after the vote on this resolution, questions are still being asked.
It is also important to bear in mind the irreversible nature of any projects that might be undertaken.
We must ensure that it is implemented correctly in national law and that it is respected in the potential and more technical context of water transfers being carried out between Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although officially this debate came about as a result of the recent floods in various Member States of the European Union, it has quickly moved towards a debate on Parliament' s support for the Spanish Government' s plan to make a series of major changes to the water management system in Spain, which we know as the national water plan.
As spokesperson for Convergencia Democrática de Cataluña in the European Parliament, I would like to express that my party, and also the Catalan Government, of which we are a part along with Unió Democràtica de Catalunya, do not agree with the proposals from the Spanish laid down in the aforementioned plan.
In the case that most directly affects Catalonia, we suggest an alternative based on transferring one fifth of the volume of water proposed by the Spanish (specifically from the river Ebro, which has been mentioned here) the use of desalination plants (which have also been suggested here as a valid alternative), better use of what is available in the current channels and finally, transfer from the Ródano.
We have been saying for years that one of the most serious problems that the most-developed societies, such as European societies, have to solve, in the medium and long term, is the shortage of water caused by the development of our urban centres and the locations of our new economic activities, which requires a new type of water management.
We therefore stress that water management needs to have a European perspective, that transfers from basins irrespective of the borders between the Member States need to be considered because, among other things, the aim of the European Union is a Europe without borders.
Mr President, I am going to take the liberty of reading a few paragraphs from a communication from the European Commission relating to the discussion that is going to take place in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy: 'Much of the policies, legislation and standards needed to achieve our objectives for water quality and use have already been put in place.
It is true that this debate has arisen here because there have been a great number of floods in Europe that are probably the result of bad water management, but it is also true that currently the biggest plan proposed in Europe for radical change in water management is in our country.
I believe everyone would gain from exporting water in the same way as other countries export their gold in the form of oil; we in Austria, for example, have white liquid gold in the form of water.
The framework directive says that no movement of water can take place unless there has been a rigorous prior assessment of the need for it and unless all the possible alternatives have been exhausted.
Meanwhile, you are aware that the framework directive says that participation from citizens is very important and, so far, associations such as ADENA, Ecologistas en Acción or groups of experts have not received an official response to their very well-documented allegations.
Let us also talk about the deterioration of water, which is dealt with in Articles 1 and 4 of the framework directive.
These articles establish the objective that the current state of water should not deteriorate, and it also says that this should be complied with from the entry into force of the directive, i.e. 22 December 2000.
Transferring water should be the last resort, to be done only when all possible alternatives have been exhausted and when it has been proven that it does not damage the environment.
Any water management measure should be accompanied by parallel plans on irrigation and forest resources, and taking into account climate change.
Mr President, Commissioner, debates that should really be technical are often political, such as the one that brings us here today: water management and water plans, which are necessary to support and develop our communities, but not at any price.
Our hydrological plan would always start with the word 'save' , and the last words would be 'transfer' and 'desalination' .
These plans also need to be in line with the Community directives on water, Natura sites, habitat, birds, etc., in conjunction with the national irrigation plans that should be in accordance with the forthcoming review of the common agricultural policy and rural development in order to deepen essential sustainable development.
It is also a strategic factor for development and, as such, is an issue that concerns everyone, a point that has already been emphasised here and rightly so.
Portugal and Spain are in quite unequal positions, given that we are a downstream country, in other words, Portugal has no rivers that flow into Spain, but Spain does have rivers that flow into Portugal.
Furthermore, when managing their water resources, our neighbours may adopt measures that affect Portuguese interests, but there is nothing that we, on the other hand, can do in terms of our water resources that would directly affect Spanish interests.
If we are saying that parts of Europe sometimes have floods and that the water could perhaps be more fairly distributed, we must bear in mind that those floods are themselves the outcome of mistakes in water management.
It is high time far greater attention was paid to local and regional water management.
Complete liberalisation of water will result in it being used by industry in a way that will bring enormous ecological problems in the long term.
Mr de Roo, about two months ago you said that the Spanish Government and the Spanish Members voted against the framework directive.
I think that this is a framework directive that - and I agree with what has been said here by several speakers - is going to promote a new culture in terms of water in European countries, based on criteria of efficiency and quality of water resources.
No one can deny this, much less so the Partido Popular or the Spanish Government.
It seems to me, Mr de Roo, that your Group is particularly interested in the Spanish water plan.
The water plan is currently an open draft, in the process of consultation with all the parties concerned, although none of them has wanted to make use of this facility.
I never said anything else, Mrs Sornosa.
The Spanish national water plan is a general policy document to be followed by a large number of detailed projects.
Only on the basis of those facts will the Commission be able to fully assess whether the operational measures under the Spanish national water plan comply with the water framework directive and other directives, such as the bird protection or habitats directives.
The debate is closed.
New industries have appeared, become commonplace, and have provided a better quality of life, higher standards of living, new and better jobs and better working conditions.
Biotechnology offers major advances in the production of food in Europe to the advantage of farmers and consumers alike and benefits those parts of the world which struggle against drought and saline soils and fast-increasing populations.
It is not only the USA: Brazil, Canada, China, India, Israel, Japan, Thailand, Singapore are all embracing biotechnology and actively promoting their indigenous industries.
The Lisbon Council promised to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
What happens here today, in Stockholm this month, in Brussels and the Member States in the next few months, will decide whether they emigrate elsewhere or seek their futures here in Europe.
This also applies to the situation in the developing countries.
To prevent the concentration of development, the EU must guarantee there are adequate public resources available for research, and support research and development in small biotechnological enterprises and plant-breeding institutes.
Patent law must respect the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity which establishes developing countries' - indeed, all countries' - right to their genetic heritage.
There was never a proper basis for it in law, and now it is even more of a problem because the Council and Parliament have adopted new rules for the release of genetically modified organisms, and I cannot understand why some Member States still do not want to end the moratorium.
We have already gone some way towards that in Europe and there is now a Committee on Human Genetics that must look particularly at this area again, because Europe is a community of values.
I very strongly support that section of the report which calls for more concrete proposals for action from the Commission and Council.
We need the Commission to report on the present state of the industry and the comparisons between Member States and to give us better data for future action.
The Council should also commit to biotechnology as a key new technology and the Stockholm Summit would be a useful time for them to do this.
We call it Bio-Science-North.
I know that our region is not alone in that but I believe that this is something that all regions in the Community should be examining.
It should be recognised that it gives us tremendous opportunities for tackling pollution and reducing resource depletion and gives us opportunities in the food sector to improve the output from our agricultural industries.
I hope that the biotechnology industry will get a tremendous boost from the adoption of this report.
Finally, I hope that our Commissioner will inform Parliament speedily about the Stockholm summit and what has been decided there with regard to biotechnology.
However, the report in no way affects the legislative programme, which is addressing such issues as traceability, labelling and liability.
The report has not dealt with serious concerns such as ethics in biotechnology, public health, consumers' concerns regarding food, and indeed the effects on the environment.
But we do not need everything that industry would like to see for that to happen, such as patenting genes that already exist in nature, the free trade in manipulated genes, tax concessions for stock options for companies and their directors, the liberalisation of product labelling, subjective information, and the handling of biotechnology as an exclusively industrial operation, for which the EU' s Directorate-General for Enterprise in the has responsibility.
The manipulation of nature must be approached in a more careful way than that which Mr Purvis is proposing.
The rapporteur calls the development of biotechnology good for the environment, the quality of food, health and the developing countries.
The report gives responsibility for authorising GMOs to the European Food Authority.
For my part, as a scientist, I greatly welcome both the specific intrinsic value of the report, which, at last, places Europe on a level with the countries which invest more in scientific research, and the new horizons which are appearing in the fight to eradicate terrible diseases such as certain neurodegenerative diseases affecting the central nervous system.
For 40 years, Cuba has been investing in biotechnology like hardly any other country and today has a turnover in modern biotechnology of well over USD 100 million.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Purvis's report is an excellent document.
Used properly, biotechnology can contribute to ecological, economic and social growth.
I think these problems are the result not of a technology but of the power structures prevailing in this society.
In the case of biotechnology, we must not forget that life is an exceptionally complicated physical system which has evolved over a timescale of millions of years and that, consequently, interventions which provoke change over a timescale of a few years may have unforeseen repercussions on the balance of the overall system.
The interest in third world countries is hypocritical in the extreme, now that the pharmaceutical industry is dragging the South African government through the courts and the third world is overburdened by debt.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, John Purvis' s report is a particularly good - by this I mean complete and well balanced - review of the situation surrounding the biotechnology industry in Europe.
At its meeting this week, the European Commission reaffirmed its desire to develop a consistent overall strategy for supporting and developing biotechnology in Europe and to present it to Parliament and the Council by the end of this year.
I therefore most especially welcome the report' s call for greater use to be made of all these committees and would like to call on the Commission to make greater use than before of all the possibilities for consultation and groundwork, as we should do, too.
Mr President, as many fellow Members have already stated, I believe that the biotechnology industry can bring about improvements, particularly in medicine, but I think that it would be naïve to believe that it can solve all the world' s problems.
When I hear what some Members have to say, or when I read certain passages in the report, I am stunned and astounded.
The risks and excesses could either be curbed or increased depending on developments in legislation both in the European Union and internationally.
We are now seeing the problems of access to generic drugs to combat AIDS in the African nations, Brazil and countries in Asia.
Mr Purvis quite rightly emphasises all these developments.
It is preparing a strategic communication on biotechnology to be completed by the end of 2001.
It will provide jobs and opportunities for innovation with new products and new processes in such fields as agriculture, medicine and pharmaceuticals.
We must now at last give the green light to green genetic engineering.
The EU must get on board the moving train of research and application or it will leave without us.
Of course, whether we are talking about red or green genetic engineering, the ethical bounds to biotechnology and gene technology must be clearly formulated.
The public will give the green light to biotechnology and gene technology only if they have information and transparency with clearly marked out ethical bounds.
Biotechnology has a very important role to play in fulfilling the commitment made by the Lisbon European Council to develop a competitive, knowledge-based economy.
The Commission has already indicated the priority it attaches to biotechnology in its proposal for the next research framework programme.
A study on the position of the European biotechnology industry should be ready later this spring, and I shall make that available to Parliament.
Further, let me say how much the Commission appreciates the report's particular merit of taking a comprehensive view on all major issues related to biotechnology.
In its report to the Stockholm European Council, which takes place next week, the Commission underlines the importance of biotechnology as a frontier technology for growth and employment, and as a tool for sustainable development.
The Commission also announces a broad policy paper setting up a strategic vision for life sciences and biotechnology after 2010, which will be ready by the end of this year.
We will also base our report on the indications from the Industry Ministers' informal meetings on 16 February and possible indications from the European Council next week.
There are no simple answers to the needs and questions raised by biotechnology, but it is the Commission's intention to provide - with you - a considered and comprehensive strategy before the end of this year.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, as it is the second time in one month that there have been leaks, and they are always to do with questions associated with Spanish Members, I would ask you to inform the House as soon as possible of the result of the investigation that you promised to carry out at my request.
I agree with you wholeheartedly, Mr Barón Crespo.
We shall proceed to the votes, and then we can come back to deal with this issue in full, if you wish.
Very well, Mrs Kauppi, thank you for making this clear.
We will be voting, this afternoon, on a motion for a resolution condemning a political group now active in Angola for having taken eight Portuguese citizens hostage.
Obviously it is totally unacceptable that these people should be in the building.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Kauppi Report (A5-0071/2001) Madam President, the document we have voted on concerns the amendment of the regulation on the reclassification of settlements under swaps arrangements and under forward rate agreements.
In order to avoid this dead end, two amendments have been approved so that, in the reports that the Member States have to send to the Commission in accordance with excessive public debt procedure, payments resulting from swaps and forward rate agreements would be considered as financial burdens incorporated into interest or debt servicing.
The European Council is changing its presidency but liberalism is still in control.
The Swedish programme talks enthusiastically about competitiveness, competition and free trade.
The criteria for an antisocial Europe which will mean insecurity and poverty for the workers of both Member States and candidate countries, taking as its slogans the 'flexible organisation of work' and the 'modernisation of social protection' , just the kind of thing to encourage the mediaeval ambitions of the bosses.
Lisbon set far-reaching goals for the next decade - to create the world's leading knowledge-based economy by 2010, to create 20 million new jobs across Europe by 2010 and to promote economic and social reform which combine competitiveness and social cohesion, investing in people and raising skill levels.
This Summit is incredibly important to our citizens and we have to set out what Stockholm means for them.
I very much hope that we can achieve our goals, so that, our citizens will benefit from a dynamic and competitive economy.
That is missing from our resolution.
That is why I wanted to vote against our resolution.
The joint resolution on the incidents at the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia/Kosovo-Macedonia border is a pathetic illustration of the European Union' s inability to tackle national questions positively.
The prerequisites for a settlement of the conflict in the region are to condemn the policy of Milosevic and other war criminals, and also to condemn any military intervention from outside, in particular that of NATO.
The Albanians believe they suffered an injustice in 1913 when a large part of their native region was not assigned to the new state of Albania that had just seceded from Turkey.
Conflict prevention The British Conservatives support the use by the EU of certain civil instruments to help head off or alleviate crises in third countries.
The EU institutions should focus their efforts on improving their efficiency in delivering these.
However, we are firmly opposed to any idea of developing a 'European Police Force' , we believe that the European contribution to military rapid reaction forces should be conducted through NATO, and that 'operational capacity' that relates to either of these aspects is a matter for individual nations and not a matter for the EU.
Apart from the many advantages that an integrated internal market for securities would bring, the report also contains a proposal for reform of the legislative process in securities matters which I consider to be a major step in the right direction.
The present legislative process is much too long-winded and inflexible to be able to adapt to the much more rapidly changing securities markets.
I agree with the broad outlines of the Lamfalussy Committee' s proposal, but I must insist on the 'call-back' mechanism proposed in Parliament' s resolution, which allows the European Parliament to call on the Commission to withdraw the proposals put before the Securities Committee concerning implementing measures in the event of a negative position being taken by itself or the Council.
The Commission would have to comply with such a request and put forward a legislative proposal as part of the codecision procedure.
But the most important thing in all the squabbling about power sharing between Council and Parliament is that we should not lose sight of the objective of an integrated European securities market.
I have therefore voted against the report.
The economic and monetary policy of the EU and its Member States should be directed towards continued improvements to the quality of their citizens' lives and meeting their needs to an increasing degree.
The political hypocrisy of using the word 'social' to dress up an increasingly rampant capitalism is compounded here by a very foolish error.
I would also like to stress how welcome it is that this Parliament takes the view that the economic and monetary policy not only of the European Union but also of the Member States should be guided by the principles of the social market economy, the main elements of that economic system being named as freedom and democracy, competition, price stability, sustainable growth, subsidiarity, solidarity and private property.
I wanted to express my satisfaction with this, and I hope that not only the Commission but also the governments of our Member States will follow this sound advice.
The impression is given that the most important thing is to raise the profile of the EU and preferably overshadow observers from other parliamentary assemblies, such as the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
It is precisely because we are in favour of promoting human rights, and in particular the observance of democratic elections, that we are abstaining from voting on this report.
The pensioners in our country lived under the communist regime for many years, when they were young workers.
We cannot therefore support the financing of new nuclear plant, as provided for in paragraph 26.
The Common Strategy of the European Union on Ukraine is merely a programme for accelerating the introduction of liberalism.
Considerations about supporting the process of democratic transition do nothing to disguise the fact that the principal aim is to introduce a market economy and free trade.
The new, independent Ukrainian state, comparable in area and population with France, is now unfortunately a country in crisis.
Firstly, the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1989 led to the rapid formation of sovereign independent states, a process that happened quickly, almost overnight, but which could not change the specialisation that had developed over decades or the cooperation between the various countries' economies.
In its own interest, the EU should pay greater attention to this factor in future and, in its understanding of how the Ukraine fits into the world economy, should also bear in mind that other CIS states are engaged in a similar process.
But politics is always tied up with interests.
Thirdly, no-one will dispute that the OSCE played an important role in maintaining stability in Europe during the cold war.
Both sides were involved in this process and both sides gained from it.
The OSCE would be the appropriate framework for this.
The report that we are discussing today concerns the place the Member States of the European Union should occupy in the ICANN system.
It is important to know that ICANN (Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers) was created in October 1998 in order to address American dominance in internet control, including DNS (Domain Name Systems) and the allocation of Internet Protocol (IP) address numbers.
ICANN consists of four advisory committees, including the GAC (Governmental Advisory Committee), which includes representatives of the European Commission and the Member States.
Taking these factors into consideration, it would seem obvious that the European Union must invest in order to play a crucial role in the international management of the internet, and in order to strengthen the neutrality of ICANN by means of a strong presence from the European Union, in collaboration with the United States and other governments, through the Governmental Advisory Committee.
It is also important that the Board of Directors of ICANN should be geographically representative.
It is only in these conditions that the viability of ICANN can be guaranteed.
The Union must make sure that ICANN observes the protocols of WIPO (the World Intellectual Property Organisation) and cooperates with WIPO in its role as a negotiator and protector of rights.
I welcome the fact that the rapporteur reminds us about the importance of closing the digital divide, and of providing the widest possible access to the Internet.
Martinez-Martinez Report (A5-0057/2001) Madam President, I greatly welcome the Cotonou Agreement, which establishes the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
As representative of the Pensioners' Party, I hope that this example will be followed by other interparliamentary assemblies, but I call, in particular, for a Working Party to be set up on the situation, standard of living and problems of the pensioners and elderly people in the ACP States.
It is of great concern to us European pensioners that the pensioners of the States who have confidence in the European Union should also live comfortably and that they should come together in joint parliamentary assemblies to resolve common problems.
Purvis Report (A5-0080/2001) Madam President, I voted against the report on biotechnology because it pays no attention to the fundamental interests and concerns of agriculture.
That does not mean that I am against innovative access to biotechnology in general, but agriculture requires special treatment and can in no way be compared to the situation in industry.
Madam President, I voted for the report on biotechnology.
The Pensioners' Party and the pensioners expect a great deal from biotechnology.
The resolution which the European Parliament has adopted following the Purvis report on the future of the biotechnology sector seems to us to be too soothing, and often even full of pitfalls.
In agriculture, on the other hand, the target is broad, or even undefined and infinite, since it involves setting in motion production methods which may affect the environment in general or the health of millions of consumers.
On the other hand, there is no doubt that genetic engineering in the medical field gives rise to ethical problems which are more serious than those elsewhere, and we note that the Purvis resolution, in paragraph 61, takes cover behind pious generalities, while avoiding specifically tackling the problem that is currently the most urgent: that of cloning for therapeutic purposes.
We would feel more reassured if the resolution had clearly said which government, in its opinion, was holding up these authorisations in such a blameworthy fashion.
In the Purvis report, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy asks the European Parliament to support the major private companies in the biotechnology sector and to promote their individual interests.
It welcomes the progress achieved in the financial markets and is in favour of stock options.
The truth will only emerge in the long term, perhaps in 30 or 50 years' time.
We Swedish Christian Democrats wish to emphasise that we voted against the second and third parts in the split vote on paragraph 36 which asserted - mistakenly - that 'a clear framework now exists for the release of genetically modified organisms in Europe which will ensure maximum consumer protection and environmental protection' and - also mistakenly - that 'it would therefore not be justified to continue the de facto moratorium on the release of GMOs' .
Our citizens have challenged us in the field of food production to safe food, with the guarantee of adequate precautions to ensure this goal and proper liability and penalties in place for any violation resulting in damage to the person on the environment.
BST is not allowed in any other country apart from the US.
There are many other points including an almost unrestricted Patenting system that force me to vote against this report.
I shall close by quoting from two small articles in Mr Purvis' s report which deserve to be highlighted: Article 60: [the European Parliament] wishes the technology to be exploited to the benefit of society in accordance with the fundamental values and ethical principles of European citizens, their culture and civilisation, and to this end sees the need to develop ethical guidelines; Article 61: stresses that the public' s wish for ethically-motivated limits on genetic engineering and biotechnology is justified...
It is important that the European Parliament states its position on the future of the biotechnology industry, not only because this will be a key industry in the future but, particularly, because of the ethical and socio-economic issues that it raises, such as those of genetics and medicines, for example, in the case of GMOs.
The approach of squeezing profit from everything, without careful assessment, leads the industry, in order to compensate for high research costs, to try to put onto the market products whose safety cannot be guaranteed and which, furthermore, create an economic dependency on the part of their users, which is what is happening in agriculture with GMOs.
Mr President, fair access to drugs to combat HIV and other diseases is, I believe, a very important issue.
If we consider that in South Africa 50% of new AIDS cases are young persons under the age of 25, that means that a 15 year-old in South Africa today has a 50% risk of infection, and if we consider the effects of that situation - that the most active section of the population is affected - on those young people and also on the country' s development, then I think it is long overdue that we say something on the subject and send a signal in the right direction.
We therefore greatly welcome Commissioner Lamy' s position and that he will give his backing to the developing countries and their right to a protection clause in the WTO and TRIPS Agreements.
Mr President, I feel that we can be satisfied - at least my group is satisfied - that not only is this debate being held at an important juncture when a process is under way to mobilise the international press, a process which has currently been suspended in South Africa, but it also has a symbolic value: do poor communities have priority access to medication which can relieve their suffering and delay their death or not?
This is a fundamental problem and I am doubly delighted that the main groups in Parliament have agreed on a joint text which sends out a very strong message.
The first message is directed at the pharmaceutical industries, calling on them to withdraw their case against South Africa, which is important, and the second message is that we want a clear interpretation within the framework of the TRIPS agreement on intellectual property, or even for the agreement to be revised.
I think, Mr President, that we need to retaliate against the indifference of the 34 pharmaceutical companies and affirm the principle of exemption for reasons of health.
A tragedy because the scale of the problem in South Africa, where millions of people suffer from AIDS, is almost impossible to grasp.
By 2010, life expectancy in Africa will fall by 20 years.
In South Africa, half of all young people already run the risk of dying from this disease.
It is a tragedy that all these countries have to cope with.
The pharmaceutical companies have brought their prices down.
But what is important, even if it is USD 10 for medication, do we have the will to fund the procurement?
Governments in these poor countries do not have the funds, even if it is only USD 10 for treating a patient.
The good news is that the prices have come down and they can come down even further if we get the pharmaceutical companies on our side.
The fight against AIDS in Africa must therefore be given the highest priority.
Essential drugs for AIDS and other serious diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, must be made available in developing countries free or at very low, and hence affordable, prices.
The new Community policy framework is being discussed in many international fora and also at national and regional level with the developing countries, civil society, industry, the European Parliament, Member States, UN agencies, the US government, G8 and many others.
This process of consultation will continue for some time until the Commission formulates specific work plans with all the partners involved.
In our new policy framework we tried to combine the different levels of intervention needs in terms of both prevention and care, and even cure in the cases of malaria and tuberculosis, and in terms of country, regional, international or global level.
The Community will support, through its technical and development assistance programmes, the reinforcement of pharmaceutical policies and global production capacities in developing countries as a medium-term means of increasing affordability.
It costs between USD 10 to 25 to treat a malaria patient and USD 11 to treat a patient suffering from tuberculosis.
Nevertheless, as a funereal action and as a warning to the world, our resolution holds considerable resonance.
I come from a different cultural and religious tradition to those who created the Bamiyan Buddha statues in the 2nd century, but I feel that all of us share a common ownership of our heritage and the right to free movement, education and employment regardless of gender.
Coming particularly to the statues, this destruction was much more than just a mindless act of violence by a regime that apparently intends to catapult us back into the Middle Ages.
A founding principle of the European Union is that religious and cultural tolerance is integral to a democratic and civilised society.
In commending my resolution to the House, I hope therefore that we in the Union will continue to work with all the governments and other agencies which sought to prevent this action and that together we can prevent any further catastrophes of this kind.
A second possible line of action, for which we can, I think, thank a forerunner in our Parliament, General Morillon, consists of giving firm support to General Massoud over and above any hypocrisy.
The third line of action, which will perhaps seem a little more indirect, but which is just as basic, concerns aid given by the United Nations - fairly indirectly but not as indirectly as all that ­ via the UNDCP, the United Nations Drug Control Programme headed by Mr Arlacchi.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what good are our resolutions, conventions, treaties and rights for the protection of our cultural heritage, the slogan 'women' s rights are human rights' , when a group of people blindly destroys cultural heritage in the name of an extremist religion, when women are forced day in day out to deny themselves, to hide behind heavy robes with a mesh covering in front of their eyes?
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance fully supports this resolution.
I would like to highlight these two points in our joint resolution. 'Heritage' is not the right word to use because of its significance.
I would prefer to take up the distinction made two days ago in a daily newspaper by a French philosopher, Jean Luc Nancy, between the symbol and the idol.
The nature of the symbol in this case are statues which also serve as idols.
In terms of both nature and symbol, women in Afghanistan are totally deprived.
The word 'discrimination' in our joint resolution, as in the Council joint declaration of January and the texts of the UN and of the international institutions, disturbs me because discrimination operates in a space where a common minimum is allowed for there to be discrimination.
On the orders of Taliban chief Mohammad Omar, the two world-famous Bamiyan Buddha statues have been completely destroyed regardless of all international protests.
The Koran says that freedom of religion and conscience together with justice are central elements of Islamic social order.
Mr President, I would like to explain our position on this issue by making four simple points.
Fourthly and finally, point 12 of our resolution calls on the United Nations to rapidly establish an independent committee of inquiry.
If the United Nations does not have either the determination or the courage to establish this committee of inquiry, it may fall to the European Parliament to take the initiative on behalf of our shared values and set up such a committee.
This criticism cannot be levelled at the European Parliament which has taken action several times over, the last occasion being on 30 November 2000, when it condemned the regime as forcefully as it could and set alarm bells ringing regarding the tragic humanitarian situation experienced by the entire population.
Commissioner, as you know, we are also concerned about the tragic situation which, according to the Under-Secretary General responsible for humanitarian affairs at the UN, is threatening one million people in Afghanistan with famine.
Only a peace settlement involving all the parties to the current conflict can be the basis for lasting solutions to the tragedy of Afghanistan and its people.
Meanwhile human tragedy in Afghanistan continues, thanks to the effects of the worst drought in the country in 30 years and of course the ongoing conflict which has continued throughout the winter.
On the ground, the Commission, through ECHO and through its budget to aid for uprooted people, continues to provide humanitarian assistance via UN agencies and NGOs both inside Afghanistan and in Iran and Pakistan, including for demining.
Further support for drought and conflict affected areas is planned.
The joint debate is closed.
Situation in Zimbabwe Mr President, we have in Europe fought for Zimbabwe' s independence for many years, where freedom and democracy are said to prevail, despite the colour of people' s skin.
Twenty years after Zimbabwe' s independence, we can only establish that the Mugabe government has not achieved a great deal.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since Zimbabwe decided to take part in the war in Congo, its economic situation has deteriorated by the day.
A Head of State who plunges his own country into chaos, and persecutes his own people does not really deserve our respect.
In that sense, we distance ourselves from Paragraph 16 of the compromise resolution, because we make allowances for the Belgian government, the French President and Commissioner Nielson who received President Mugabe in the framework of those peace negotiations.
Mugabe presides over a state that day in and day out subjects innocent Zimbabweans to untold misery, murder, brutality and intimidation.
Instead, it seems there is one standard in Europe for handling right-wing dictators and another for socialist tyrants and terrorists, such as Mugabe.
In our strong resolution, thoroughly approved by the MDC representatives we have seen today, we condemn Mugabe and his regime and call for suspension of EU assistance directed through Zimbabwe government channels, identification of Mugabe's extensive overseas assets, invocation of the Cotonou Article 96 procedures and insistence that the Zimbabwean government respect its own laws.
Our message is clear.
Mr President, two Zimbabwean politicians are listening to our debate today.
We do need a cordon sanitaire but one which clearly expresses what we want to achieve when we meet with these interlocutors.
So, let us not condemn those who defend this point of view, but let us call on the entire European Community - be it the Commission, the European Parliament or the Member States - to reiterate just how important human rights, and the law itself, are in this very sensitive area.
That is why I sincerely hope that the European Parliament will vote in favour of the amendment we have tabled.
Mr President, the clear language of the Zimbabwe resolution leaves no doubt that we hold President Mugabe personally responsible for conditions in that country.
If France wants more influence in the region, it must back the forces of the future.
Mr President, this is one of the few times I have actually spoken on a topical or urgent matter in this House.
It started with a visit from a young Zimbabwean with our local asylum seekers' organisation.
When people are fleeing for their lives across the world and when democratically elected politicians are in fear of their lives, Europe needs to make a response that this is not acceptable.
And that is only covering the 47 countries which have ratified the Convention and excluding the cases which are being considered under the Convention of Luxembourg.
I hope that approval of this resolution will help guarantee the Limet children their right to both parents, but I am just as much convinced that the European Parliament, and the Commission too, I hope, will need to take many more initiatives in order to restore the rights of all these other children and parents.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two observations to make regarding the disturbing problem which is the subject of this resolution, namely parental abduction.
First I wish to reassure other victim parents, some of whom have expressed concern that this resolution deals with a particular case, that their tragedies too are just as important to me.
This is the primary aim of this resolution.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Kenyan authorities, and in particular President Moi, for any assistance they can provide to ensure a positive outcome.
It is my firm belief that the children have the right to know both parents and this right was scrupulously respected until the failure to return the children to their father in Belgium in August 1998.
We have a big task ahead of us, but I would like to take this opportunity to remind all the signatories of the Hague convention that they signed up not just to protect their own nationals who may become victims of child abduction, but also to use the convention to assist those who are victims of child abduction by their own nationals.
Mr President, this issue of Cabinda, which is troubling public opinion in Portugal, Angola and other countries, is quite intolerable, and all of the Portuguese Members from the various political groups in this Parliament have agreed to table a motion for a resolution, which I recommend should be voted for.
I also call upon Parliament and upon the Council and the Commission to adopt a position of total condemnation of these methods, which could encourage others to act in the same way.
I therefore hope that the pressure which the European Union can bring to bear in aid of the peace process will also put an end to the inhuman conditions in Angola.
These are criminal acts that are designed to aggravate the political and military situation in Angola and which are also intended to give an international profile to a group that has no compunction about resorting to such actions in order to achieve separatist objectives, which are also completely unrealistic.
Mr President, since May 2000, eight Portuguese citizens have been held prisoner in the territory of Cabinda.
These people are workers who were forced by necessity to leave their country and they are also citizens of the European Union to whom all the governments of the Union have responsibilities.
The fact that, on our initiative, Parliament is discussing this issue is therefore to be warmly welcomed.
We feel that a very clear position of principle is involved: it is unacceptable to imprison peaceful citizens in order to make political demands.
I therefore call on all those who are detaining these Portuguese citizens to release them immediately, in a gesture of humanitarian good will, which is the only thing that can help their captors' cause.
The situation of our fellow citizens is obviously close to our hearts and, in order to ensure their release, we will do whatever is necessary, in accordance with our principles.
They share responsibility for the situation that has arisen and we will be watching events closely.
Mr President, our declaration of support for the European Parliament resolution on the kidnapping of eight Portuguese citizens in Cabinda is motivated by a single concern: to do everything to obtain their release as quickly as possible.
The simple release of the hostages, of their Portuguese brethren, from the very country with which the LFEC wishes to reopen relations that were cut off more than 25 years ago, will encourage a positive reaction and closer attention to the LFEC' s historical and political aims by these two communities.
The release of the Portuguese citizens is, in this sense, also an act of political clarity and affirmation of humanitarian principles that we all need in order to bring about the resolution of this unfortunate episode.
Mr President, I welcome all the efforts, both public and those behind the scenes, that have been made, from the moment the first Portuguese citizen was kidnapped, particularly the efforts made by the Portuguese Government, with a view to ensuring the release of the hostages.
Virtually every community in Indonesia with social or ethnic differences is a potential hotbed, now that the sub-districts, districts and provincial boundaries are being re-established or contested.
General Suharto's implicit suggestion that a military coup against the current civilian government is under way to restore order in the country must therefore be condemned most emphatically.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was with utter disgust that we witnessed the massacres in Kalimantan, which are unprecedented in their brutality.
It is therefore understandable that difficulties should arise, and neither is it all that difficult to let the tensions between population groups escalate.
Unfortunately, there are quite a few people and groups in Indonesia who stand to gain from an escalation in tension between regional population groups, causing the government in Jakarta to become destabilised.
In our resolution, we call on the European Commission to address the Indonesian government in a bid to halt these brutalities, and we urge the Commission to implement this resolution.
The situation in parts of Kalimantan is intolerable and I back this motion totally.
But what Indonesia most needs is our support for their efforts to find and fund solutions and any criticism from us must be constructive.
In the final analysis, Turkmenistan' s political leaders are just as much at the mercy of Turkmenbashi Niyazov.
In that spirit, due to Man being a Creation of God, we would ask the Council and Commission to employ all diplomatic means in order to improve the situation in Turkmenistan.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as Chairman of the delegation of the European Parliament with the Central Asian countries, which covers Turkmenistan, I receive weekly reports on the continuous violation of human rights in Turkmenistan.
In 1999, the Commission took steps to re-orientate its cooperation with Zimbabwe in favour of social sector actions - health, education and AIDS, democracy and support to civil society.
The Commission and the Member States have opted for confidential political dialogue under Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement in order to influence the Zimbabwean government and to seek improvements in respect for the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
While President Mugabe is closely associated with these undesirable events, his public demonisation is counterproductive since it encourages support for him by dissenting factions in Zimbabwe African National Union/Patriotic Front and by neighbouring states.
This regulation sets out rules on jurisdiction, automatic recognition and simplified enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility for children of both spouses.
Therefore custodial decisions at the time of divorce taken in the Member States in accordance with Brussels II can now be enforced throughout the Community.
Later this month, the Commission plans to present a working document on the mutual recognition of decisions on parental responsibility, to be followed by a proposal for a regulation extending the scope of the Brussels II regulation to cover all children and situations.
As far as cases that transcend the borders of the Community are concerned, the Commission also supports the ratification, or the correct application, of the 1980 Hague Convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which is indeed a very valuable instrument.
On Kalimantan in Indonesia: the Commission shares the honourable Members' concerns about the conflict in Kalimantan, which resulted in injury and serious loss of life.
To address the poverty in this region, the Commission has in place development projects in southern and eastern Kalimantan, which include support for sustainable management of tropical forests.
The Commission is closely following the situation and would stand ready to assist if the situation justified it.
The Commission has expressed concerns about the human rights situation in Turkmenistan.
The release of these two prisoners was ordered by President Niyazov later in an amnesty allowing the release of 12 000 prisoners.
External pressure has to be maintained to achieve results in the fight for human rights and freedom of religion in Turkmenistan.
In addition, the Commission develops TACIS democracy projects mostly through local NGOs in order to enhance civil society.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Nuclear proliferation is more or less under control, although we have been going through a very difficult phase since the signing of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1968, which then came into force in 1970.
The second addition would simply be a reference to the marking of weapons in the proposals of our compromise resolution.
A lot of wise things have been said, but the most important action in this context is this EU initiative for the UN conference on the illicit trade in small arms.
This conference must be the first step towards stopping arms exports.
Today, our resolution has a fundamental objective: to help the next United Nations Conference in July to be successful.
In the first place, preventing arms from being exported or transferred to groups or countries that violate human rights.
Secondly, an international agreement on the trade and transport of arms that is binding for all countries.
Parliament must therefore wish the United Nations Conference in July to be a success.
The 1998 European code of conduct can serve as a template for a worldwide agreement on the export and transfer of weapons.
In Africa, for example, Togo and Burkina are officially known as end users of weapons from Bulgaria while, in reality, these weapons are being channelled to Liberia and to the rebels in Sierra Leone.
The EU joint action on small arms and light weapons proposes the adoption of a series of confidence-building measures including measures to promote increased transparency and openness.
A number of projects emanating from the joint action are currently under way or under consideration.
The EU attaches great importance to the upcoming UN Conference on the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Floods in Mozambique Mr President, once again, and in a similar situation to the one we saw last year, we are witnessing serious floods in Mozambique, which have claimed a considerable number of victims and caused enormous material damage.
Once again, we wish to express our solidarity with the people of Mozambique and to ask the Community and the Member States to increase their emergency aid to that country.
I wish to take this opportunity to mention Commissioner Nielson' s willingness to make statements on this subject to the Commission on Development and Cooperation and, particularly, his announcement here of extraordinary aid for Mozambique.
Following a civil war that decimated a large part of the population and left the country in the most abject poverty, we are now helplessly witnessing the swings of nature which appear determined to sacrifice the people of Mozambique.
The European Union and, particularly, the Commission, must play a very important role in adopting humanitarian aid programmes, which are, in fact, a distinguishing feature of the European Union' s external policy.
The EUR 2 million - ESC 400 thousand million - which have already been made available are a good indication of the Commission' s cooperative approach, but are clearly insufficient to meet the shortages and the problems Mozambique is facing.
Ultimately, Mr President, what we are asking is for the Commission and the Council to take the broadest and most sympathetic view possible of our joint resolution.
A few years ago, we were able to delight in the prompt economic recovery in some parts of Mozambique, but the inland regions are so extremely poor - people have absolutely nothing - that I find it disgraceful that some countries have still not released Mozambique from its debts.
Tomorrow, it will be exactly a year since, we were discussing and voting on a resolution in this Parliament on this very subject: floods in Mozambique.
The European Union must therefore express its solidarity with Mozambique, translate its words into action and not forget the efforts of the people of Mozambique, who have tried, at great cost, to consolidate their process of transition to democracy, which is still a long way from being achieved.
In this context, I wish to highlight the content of the final part of paragraph 5 of the joint resolution that we shall be voting on and which is ultimately designed to safeguard all the security and operational conditions needed to ensure that aid reaches its intended destination.
The tragedy and the scale of this disaster are such that the Mozambican authorities cannot act efficiently or in isolation to resolve their serious economic, social and public health problems, particularly because Mozambique is a very poor country.
The European Union and, in particular, the European Parliament, cannot turn their backs upon this tragedy, nor must we limit ourselves to simply expressing our sympathy.
We therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to increase emergency aid to Mozambique, and to coordinate their aid in conjunction with third countries and multilateral organisations.
In point 8 of its legislative programme last year, the Commission pledged substantial emergency aid to Mongolia.
It has sent just a few hundred thousand dollars to add to the few hundred thousand dollars from other donor countries, which include Israel and the People' s Republic of China.
We were taken with the openness and determination he displayed in approaching our Parliament.
Mr President, Mongolia is developing into the democratic pearl of Central Asia.
The country is making a name for itself in the world of sports, as was evident recently in the skating event in my own country, and it deals with political landslides well, as was apparent from the most recent elections.
That problem is made still worse by the fact that, in the past, Mongolia used to supply countries like Russia and Finland with large amounts of beef.
The accession of Finland to the European Union closed off the Finnish market to a large degree, and massive European food aid to Russia meant that Mongolia was sidelined on that market too.
Mr President, first on the Mozambique flood situation, the Commission is following the current flood situation in Mozambique closely and is deeply concerned by the numbers of displaced people and by the loss of life which has already occurred.
The Commission's humanitarian aid office, ECHO, is in close contact with the Commission's delegation in Mozambique and also with governmental and non-governmental organisations in the country.
The Commission's assessment confirms the need for new humanitarian aid intervention in Mozambique.
Initial funding to the tune of EUR 2 million is currently being prepared.
The neighbouring countries of Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe are also affected by the abnormally heavy rainfall.
The situation in Mozambique is likely to persist for several weeks as water continues to be discharged from the Kariba and Cabora Bassa dams.
Last year, ECHO allocated almost EUR 2 million of emergency relief to address the basic food needs of the most vulnerable families affected by the severe 1999-2000 winter and the subsequent summer drought in Mongolia.
In 2001, in response to the appeal for international assistance by the Mongolian government and based on the humanitarian needs assessment by FAO and Red Cross Family, ECHO has launched an emergency funding decision of EUR 1 million.
The aid will be provided by the International Federation of the Red Cross and two ECHO partners, Save the Children from the UK and Premier Urgence of France.
ECHO is closely monitoring the general situation in the country to identify potential further needs for humanitarian aid.
The Commissioner has not commented on this at all.
The joint debate is closed.
That is why, Commissioner, when we heard the representatives of the assistants, we did it in the presence and with the cooperation of Vice-President Onesta, who was instructed by the Bureau of our Parliament to deal with these problems.
In other words this text could easily be modified and adapted to the situation of the assistants and it could enable them to choose the country of establishment when it comes to matters of social security payments and it could guarantee their other rights to social protection.
The Council wanted the European Parliament to reform its relations with its assistants in the name of transparency.
The Commission has the political initiative, but we now ask it to make use of it and to formally present a proposal to amend Regulation No 1408/71 by adding a simple subparagraph covering the situation of the assistants.
It is then up to the Council to shoulder its responsibilities and to decide whether or not to keep our assistants and ourselves in a state of legal and social uncertainty.
The best solution would be before the start of the Belgian Presidency, since our assistants work in Belgium.
In 1998 the Commission, with Parliament's agreement, drew up a proposal to amend the conditions of employment for other staff so that Parliamentary assistants would become auxiliary staff.
This would have ensured equal treatment for assistants in terms of their salary, employment conditions and tax, with a choice of a social security system.
The assistants are already covered by this regulation and it brings them, in principle, under the social security system of the Member State where they work.
However, the Commission has committed itself to finding solutions which are in the interests of both assistants and Members of Parliament.
It seems that the application of Regulation No 1408/71 to this category of workers still gives rise to uncertainty, which can be removed by the amendment.
If asked what 'shortly' means, I can say that it will be before the summer.
That means that this issue can be decided during the Belgian Presidency.
Mr President, since the first direct elections in 1979 I have taken part in all part-sessions of our European Parliament here in Strasbourg from Mondays to Fridays, fifteen of those years as assistant to our unforgotten colleague Otto von Habsburg and now for seven years as a Member of Parliament.
That would not only be a problem for the many staff we maintain in our constituencies, because the very purpose of that is to strengthen feedback to the constituency, but it would also fail to take account of the structure of our Parliament' s work, because following the Council' s decision this House has its seat in Strasbourg and holds its plenary sessions here.
There is therefore no point in making assistants who work here, for example, subject to Belgian law.
I therefore believe that the Council, Commission and Parliament must find an arrangement that gives our assistants security but which, as I said, takes account of this Parliament' s specific working conditions, which it did not set for itself, and which enables Members to make arrangements under the laws of the Member State where they were elected or to use an arrangement that does equal justice to their manner, structure and style of work and to the legitimate social interests of our assistants.
It is impossible not to be surprised at this inability to resolve a precarious situation which affects the parliamentary assistants, people who assist us on a daily basis, whilst we are competent to legislate on certain aspects of the conditions of life and work of all the citizens of the fifteen Member States?
It is in fact a question of finding solutions to crucial and fundamental issues concerning social protection, the employment statute, occupational accidents and all the issues of social cover with which we are so familiar, so that we can deal with them in relation to all the workers in the fifteen Member States.
However, the proposal put forward to regard our assistants as genuine cross-border workers so that they can consequently have recourse to Regulation No 1408/71, to which we just have to add a subparagraph in order to cover them, seems entirely appropriate.
I hope that we move down it as rapidly as we can.
Our Parliament has been in existence for so many years yet we are still trying to settle this issue, which should have been taken off the agenda years ago.
The Council asked us to abandon the route towards turning our assistants into officials.
The Council also asked us to take all the necessary measures to ensure transparency and, as our fellow Members have reminded us, everything is in hand.
Finally, in a few weeks' time, the whole of Europe will know the names of our assistants.
We would not understand it if, once this step had been taken by the Commission, the Council, which has always told us, whether it be under the Finnish Presidency, the Portuguese Presidency, the French Presidency and now the Swedish Presidency, that it too was ready to do its bit, did nothing.
Modifying Regulation No 1408/71 is the right thing to do because then we will have something simple and consistent and we will finally be able to give our assistants a statute which does not suffer from any legal debate.
In the working group I lead, in which all the political groups are represented, Parliament is finally debating this issue with a united voice.
There will still not be a code of ethics, a collective agreement and a system of equalisation to ensure fairness amongst all assistants, as my colleague from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party said, where there is equal pay for work of equal value.
This system of fairness can be introduced in the form of an equalisation fund at the level of the European Parliament.
Legality, simplicity, transparency and a high level of social protection are called for.
Mr President, Commissioner, I fully agree with what Mr Onesta has just said.
Some initial results were obtained within the European Parliament with the adoption, by the Bureau, of the amendment to Article 14 of the rules on the costs and allowances of Members of Parliament.
It seems that the way is now clear for us to be able to move forwards very soon towards a European statute whereby, in the words Parliament chose in its opinion of 11 March 1999, assistants are treated equally and in accordance with the work they carry out.
It is already very complex and time-consuming to act in the correct manner.
Mr President, I have some speaking time left, but Commissioner Liikanen has managed to reassure me to a great extent.
I would also stress, in addition to the indisputable nature of these commitments, the role of the socialists who, particularly within the Committee on Budgets, have fought on the front line every year to ensure that these commitments are included in the budget lines, and they will do so on this occasion with regard to this operation too.
I therefore wish to begin by welcoming in particular the initiative presented here by our colleague, Mr Rocard, to bring into the open a debate which must be conducted with the utmost transparency.
Ladies and gentlemen, from a personal point of view, I would even argue for a common statute for parliamentary assistants based on the categories currently laid down in the Staff Regulations.
The revision proposed as a joke by Commissioner Kinnock might even be a good opportunity to lay down a decision of this type.
We all know that the new rules adopted by Parliament on the situation of parliamentary assistants are nothing more than internal regulations.
In any event, now that these rules have been agreed on, I am sure that there is a broad majority in this House, and this can be seen in the Bureau, in the Contact Group and in the speeches that have been made here, that wishes the Council to frame in law what is already being practised, affecting only our institutions, through an amendment to Regulation No 1408/71, which is a general rule covering migrant workers.
Mr President, Commissioner, everything has been said.
The first was to assure our assistants publicly that this matter was being taken on board by the European Parliament.
Our third objective was to have a timetable, which was particularly related to the fact that the Belgian Presidency was just around the corner and that the problem essentially concerned Belgian social security.
I will pass this on to my colleague, Commissioner Diamantopoulou and also to President Prodi to guarantee that our internal procedures will be fast enough so that when the Belgian presidency is in office the proposal is on the table.
We normally expect the Commissioner to speak for 10 minutes, but today he has spoken for only 10 seconds.
In this afternoon' s urgent debate our group, the largest in the House, had only 12 minutes to share out, apart from the minutes allowed to the proposers.
But it does seem somewhat ironic to me that we have been voting in this place all week to save the planet but we still ride around Strasbourg in our chauffeur-driven Mercedes.
Could Parliament perhaps consider giving Members detailed instructions on how to use the tram system and the routes that are available, and maybe even give us a couple of complimentary tickets to get us started.
Before the vote on Kalimantan: Mr President, I wish to speak very briefly in order to draw the Bureau' s attention to item 4 and to point out the contradiction between what we have just voted for, which is that our resolution should be conveyed to the leaders of the Liberation Front of the Enclave of Cabinda and of the Renewed LFEC, and the - in our view - hasty action, which could have serious humanitarian consequences, which we consider to be deplorable, of expelling certain individuals from the European Parliament buildings on the allegation that they may belong to the LFEC, to whom the Bureau has undertaken to transmit the resolution for which we voted.
We take note of that, but it is customary in this House for the texts of resolutions to be distributed to all who are mentioned in them.
The first would come at the end of Recital E and would be to add: 'as well as the Bamako Declaration made by 52 Member States of the Organisation of African Unity on light weapons and small arms' .
In other words, this amendment should be inserted after 'the manufacture' in the third line of the fourth sub-point of point 2.
