We will also continue to monitor the general situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country, with a special emphasis on the regulatory environment of NGOs and the media.
Secondly, 'For Freedom', Mr Milinkievich's organisation, has been allowed registration and, thirdly, there will be consultations between Belarus and the ODIHR on 22 January on electoral reform.
However, we still need more progress if we are to begin a new era in our relationship and if we are also to confirm the suspension.
After 13 April, should ministers assess that sufficient progress has been made, the decision will be made as to whether to confirm the suspension of sanctions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office, the main occasion for today's debate is the first half of the six-month suspension of sanctions against Belarus, which happens to be this week.
Our half-way review of relations between that country and the European Union has been received with positive caution by this House, with appreciation for the changes that have taken place in Belarus.
Above all we would like to express our satisfaction that the 'For Freedom' movement led by Aleksander Milinkievich has been legalised, and that the independent newspapers Narodnaya Volya and Nasha Niva have been legalised and allowed into the state distribution system.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) The signals coming from Belarus are not always clear-cut.
On the other hand, however, members of the opposition are being re-arrested, and many of the released prisoners have had their rights restricted.
I do not, however, believe that the time has come to start dialogue between this parliament and that of Belarus.
However, the country's modernisation and its alignment with European political standards must proceed in the context of dialogue between the authorities and the democratic opposition in Belarus.
That would be unimaginative and stupid, it would be irresponsible, it would be worse than a crime - it would be a delusion.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) I welcome the Czech presidency headed by vice-premier Alexander Vondra.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, Belarus is the last European country with which the European Union does not have an agreement on mutual relations.
The IMF's condition was the devaluation of the Belarusian rouble by no less than 20.5% on 2 January.
This is an inspiring European goal which hopes to develop, and build bridges in, contacts with all sections of Belarusian society. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that there are no longer any reasons for maintaining any kind of sanctions against Belarus.
Political liberties, above all, are important, and there has been talk of some prisoners, but in fact this relates to three political prisoners who have been released.
It is strange that today there is talk of Turkey's entry into Europe, when Belarus has a much stronger and more significant partnership role with Europe. (HU) Mr President, it is difficult to move forward from the stalemate in relations between the European Union and Belarus.
The proposed EU strategy is critical and constructive, and I therefore give it my unreserved support. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like above all to positively underline the fact that minister Alexandr Vondra is attending this evening's debate in this House.
These are positive signals which without doubt are also the result of the European Union's attitude to Belarus.
The European Union's expectations go further, and there are clearly grounds for this, just as there are grounds for Belarus' many expectations.
These issues are particularly important to the residents of border regions, who have cultural and family ties (...) (The President cut off the speaker.) (NL) Mr President, this evening, we are debating the EU's policy in respect of Belarus, a policy in which democracy and respect for human rights take centre stage.
Every year, some 30 000 Belarusian children are welcomed in 21 countries by host families, voluntary organisations and churches.
This is, however, only the beginning, as Naša Vjasna, which has a human rights agenda, and several other organisations devoted to the development of democracy also await registration.
The Irish Government managed to secure an exemption which allowed children to travel to Ireland this Christmas, but many other children still have to secure exit visas to leave Belarus in order to participate in rest and recuperation programmes.
I have also raised the international travel ban with you, Commissioner, and in your response to my letter you said that representations had been made both through the European Commission delegation in Minsk and also most recently during the visit to Minsk in early November by the RELEX deputy director-general.
Constructive dialogue and improved bilateral relations, which should be clearly based on the principles of democracy and respect for the rights of people, are in the interest of both sides. - (SK) Even though positive progress has been made in Belarus, we must maintain very close communications with representatives of the Belarusian opposition and with our friend Alexander Milinkievich.
The European Union must apply an intelligent strategy with regard to the Belarusian people and society and not only with regard to the temporary government in Minsk.
We should set up a special programme of grants for young people from Belarus to study in the European Union, which will reap great benefits in the future. (RO) We have before us three motions for a resolution, from 21 May, 9 October and 7 January.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I will try to summarise this on behalf of the Council.
We supported the moves made by the French presidency on this issue, including the démarche carried out on 3 December last year.
EU efforts have finally resulted in the temporary suspension of the Presidential Decree No 555 banning these trips.
Just as your resolution adopted on Belarus after the 28 September elections helped us to move forward, we hope that we can continue to receive your support during our term.
One on the financial crisis: Belarus has sustained the effects of the financial crisis and the rising gas prices in 2007 and 2008 reasonably well so far, due to its very limited integration in the global economy and also the substantial loans from Russia, China and Venezuela.
As I said in my first remark, you know that we would be ready to contribute to the negotiation as soon as the Council has also expressed the position to try to manage that, bringing all the Member States to the possibility of having a whole visa agreement as well as a re-admission agreement.
The vote will take place on Thursday 15 January 2009.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) Mr President, we have been talking lately of a political thaw in Belarus.
The EU cannot ignore the fact that the authorities in Belarus are continuing to violate citizens' and human rights.
