This debate is of the utmost importance and is of greater contemporary relevance than ever for various reasons, one of which is the fact that we, on 5 March, commenced negotiations on a new and extended agreement that is intended to put our relations with Ukraine on a new footing.
Ukraine is also in need of a long-term process - one in which everyone can take part and which will lead to a constitutional reform founded on a new-style political compromise - that will equip the political system with clear mechanisms of control and regulation.
We have decided to increase the support grant under the new European neighbourhood and partnership instrument to EUR 120 million per annum, have initialled the agreement on visa facilitation and returns, and, on the trade front, are preparing extensive measures that, taken together with the new and wider-ranging agreement, will move us closer to a free trade zone.
A second round of negotiations followed in Kiev on 2 and 3 April.
The European Union must understand and acknowledge the context in which this crisis has arisen.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, we too are worried about the ongoing political instability in Ukraine.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
Mrs Harms is right; there is a very considerable difference between Moscow and Kiev, and I would ask her to call to mind how the late Boris Yeltsin, when he was the Russian President, had troops fire on the Russian Parliament for not doing what he wanted it to do.
Thirdly, it might also be possible to invite all the groups in the Verkhovna Rada to come here and have a debate.
I was therefore not surprised to hear the allegations that MPs were being bribed large sums to cross the floor in an attempt by the governing coalition to achieve the magical 300 seats, or constitutional majority, required to finally strip President Yushchenko of his remaining powers.
I personally have always championed Ukraine's intrinsic right under Article 49 of the Treaty to apply for EU membership.
Ideally, in 2008 the expiring PCA should be replaced by an association agreement.
From the platform of this House I now appeal to both sides of the conflict in Ukraine - president Yushchenko and Yulia Timoshenko, both symbols of the Orange Revolution, and to premier Yanukovich, representative of the ruling coalition - to resolve this crisis through negotiation.
Here in the European Parliament, we would like to continue to have the grounds and the conviction for declaring that we are open to the European aspirations of the Ukrainians. (PL) Mr President, three years ago we rightly supported democratic change in Ukraine.
For our own part, we will keep an eye on the further progress of the crisis and play our part by encouraging those in positions of responsibility in Ukraine to see long-term political compromise in the interests of their country.
