The objectives of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) are laid down in Article 105 of the EC Treaty.
Apart from this objective, however, the ESCB supports the general economic policies of the Community with a view to contributing to the achievement of the Community's objectives pursuant to Article 2 EC.
This means that there is no way the Council or a Member State can influence monetary policy. (LT) The European Central Bank has its own stable inflation indicator, which is just nearing 2%.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) The EU-Africa Ministerial Conference held on 22-23 November 2006 in Tripoli was an important event, bringing together for the first time all the Member States of the EU and - I should like to underline this very clearly - all African countries, namely the members of the African Union plus Morocco, to discuss migration and development issues.
The implementation of these two instruments is expected to begin in the next few months. (ES) As you know, the Commission is currently making a series of proposals to regulate legal immigration, in agreement with countries of origin, particularly with the African countries.
For example, it could happen that, out of EUR 1 000 remitted to a country, only EUR 800 reaches the recipient since the charges are so high.
This kind of comprehensive approach was discussed, and it is now up to us to decide what action to take in the various fields - although I have to say that not all measures are needed in all cases, as some countries have already made very great progress thanks to domestic developments.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Demographic change in Europe concerns all the Member States of the EU.
In its Communication entitled 'The demographic future of Europe - from challenge to opportunity' of 12 October of last year, the European Commission notes that Europe has never in its history experienced economic growth without population growth.
These are all issues we hope to discuss at various conferences this year. (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we want to see a sensible demographic trend in Europe, we must at any rate stop clinging to our ideologically skewed, hypocritical blinkers and dreaming of a model of life that existed perhaps 200 years ago.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) The decision to designate 2007 the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All was approved by the European Parliament and the Council in 2006.
It must be borne in mind, however, that the work as part of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All 2007 is based on the principles of personal responsibility and subsidiarity.
Surely you can encourage all Member States to do that through a process of peer review.
I believe that this is an issue that cannot be solved by the respective Member States alone, and that the integration of these sections of the population requires assistance from others. (DE) Mr President-in-Office, I have a question on this subject.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) The EU emissions trading scheme is one of the most important policy instruments at the disposal of the European Community and its Member States for achieving their Kyoto objectives in the most cost-effective way.
They have to notify these to the Commission and to the other Member States at least 18 months before the beginning of the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, namely 2008-2012.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr Moraes, this instrument is in practical use, so to speak, and I agree with you that there is still room for improvement in the scheme's efficiency and that incentives should perhaps also be used to manage it.
In the first four-and-a-half months of the new transparency measures alone, over 28 000 visits to these new features of the Council website were recorded.
The Council is constantly striving to improve these features.
I am absolutely delighted to hear that there were 28 000 visits recorded and that people can follow debates on the net.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr Posselt, my answer to your question is as follows.
The team making preparations for the international civilian mission started work in Priština on 9 October 2006.
The planned mission is intended to have a general role in teaching, observing and advising in matters of the rule of law.
The conclusion of this process represents the end point in the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia. (DE) Mr President-in-Office, many thanks for that very good, precise reply.
This recommendation on discharge contains the extensive conclusions of the Council on the Court of Auditors' annual report, in which the Council addresses, in detail, the observations of the Court of Auditors and the Commission's opinions on these.
