Prospects for the Doha Development Agenda following the Seventh WTO Ministerial Conference (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission (B7-0232/2009) by Mr Moreira, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on prospects for the Doha Development Agenda following the Seventh WTO Ministerial Conference.
Although the Doha Round - that is, the Doha Development Agenda - was not on the official agenda for this ministerial conference, the fact is that a large majority of the official delegations from the WTO member countries took the opportunity to announce their positions on the subject and state that they wanted to conclude the Doha Round by the end of 2010.
But, of course, we can conclude the Doha Round only if all WTO members are on board.
The outcome of the Doha Development Agenda needs to safeguard more effective integration of developing countries, especially less developed countries, into the global trading system.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Doha talks were opened in 2001 to correct the imbalances, in fact the injustices, of the international trade system that was introduced following the Uruguay Round, when the WTO was created.
This leads to a deadlock and makes one lose sight of the main issue: the need to create a new way of regulating the international trade system that will form part of the new global governance that everyone has called for, particularly since the G20, in order to address the real challenges of today, which are fair development on all continents, the eradication of poverty, food security, respect for social rights and decent work, and the fight against climate change.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, the Seventh Session of the World Trade Organisation Ministerial Conference was held in Geneva.
The balance of our global economic order is disastrous.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (NL) Mr President, the impasse on the Doha Round inevitably cast a dark shadow over the WTO Summit at the start of this month.
It has decreased significantly as a result of the global economic crisis, but half of the remaining deficit, and in fact, the entire trade deficit recorded for the first half of 2009 is equivalent to our current trade deficit with China.
The current trade system encourages the growth of CO2 emissions.
Blame the crisis.
Together with Mr Désir, our group's rapporteur on this resolution, we have tabled several amendments to the joint compromise text produced by the right-wing European political parties.
In order to achieve this, they do not hesitate to falsify economic history, by ascribing the crisis of 1929 and the Second World War to protectionism.
Finally, I would like to recommend that the European Commission provide the European Parliament with regular updates about the relevant stage in the negotiations on the Doha Development Agenda. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the Commissioner, in particular, for very clearly laying the European Union's ideas on the table in the negotiations in Geneva, because, for us, the Doha Round is about providing a new framework for the global economy, which is undergoing this crisis.
Firstly, the alarming fact that I have found out is that the WTO is in the process of lamentably failing to attain the goal for which it was created and established, that of reducing poverty - in the poorest countries - as has been pointed out on several occasions here.
But I have to say as well - not only here, but I have said it elsewhere, including in the negotiations in Geneva - that the European Union is not going to give any further concessions in agriculture.
Regarding whether the agreement is good enough; I think that being able to get consensus between more than 150 different countries with totally different approaches probably will mean that you would never get the best of all worlds.
