Clearly, and here I am speaking to a certain section of the House, that what this report is calling for is market access, market access that must be enhanced, a strategy that can and must respect the circumstances prevailing in each country.
The export of goods and services cannot be subject to unjustifiable barriers, nor can public contracts, and the Commission can and must do more in both these areas.
It can and must improve its instruments in Brussels, in the framework of the EU, through better coordination with the trade promotion bodies in Member States and regions, and with the actual businesses involved.
We are also making an extremely specific request for the Commission to define ad hoc courses of action to defend and improve the presence of SME products in third country markets, since it is these products that encounter most difficulties when they have no protection.
At the heart of the global Europe strategy that we launched in 2006 was the commitment both to keeping our own markets in Europe open, and also to refocusing our resources on creating new opportunities for European workers and companies in the markets of our main trading partners.
We have also stepped up our cooperation with the United States on market access issues, which has been instrumental in some of these successes.
Frankly, it also needs some more high-profile advocates of what we are doing and how we are setting about pursuing our objectives, both in this House and also among the Member States - people who believe in economic openness, but who are also not afraid to speak up for reciprocal market opening, especially amongst those emerging economies whose own growth is being driven by their access to our markets.
We will continue to push for more resources for the most important markets in Asia and, for example, in Brazil.
In 2007, in the euro zone, trade recorded a surplus of 28.3 billion euros, as compared to a deficit of 9.3 billion euros in 2006.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, the new market access strategy of the Commission should really help to remove barriers in third countries.
I am very pleased with the positive report from Parliament, and would like to thank our rapporteur, Ignasi Guardans Cambó, who also managed to set out such clear priorities: better cooperation with European businesses and more support for small and medium-sized enterprises; the help-desk at the Commission but also on the ground in the third countries.
I think that the European Institute in China for small and medium-sized European companies is an excellent Commission initiative.
We open up our market to third countries and then the markets in those third countries should also be opened up to our European companies, especially in the emerging economies of China, India, Brazil and Russia.
We should therefore give this priority in the market access strategy, with market access teams that will assist European companies in those countries.
It is logical and normal, and it is what our citizens would want.
This is what many economic sectors in our countries are asking of us.
This should form part of a broader strategy carried out in conjunction with our main trading partners, such as the United States, Japan and Canada; they have the same concerns as ourselves internationally and could join the Union in promoting a multilateral agreement in this field, backing WTO mechanisms that ensure a faster response to any new non-tariff barriers.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) Mr President, when one reads the Commission Communication and, in particular, Parliament's report, one might think that the poor little EU is being discriminated against by malign foreign forces.
Thus the emerging economies also need to accept, to a certain extent, the principle of reciprocity in concessions in line with their level of development and their competitiveness in a given sector.
Moreover, the Commission and the Member States should improve cooperation with European chambers of commerce, trade associations and Member State agencies in third countries.
I think we need an update, if you can give us that, as part of this debate. (PL) Mr President, as we take the floor in this debate we wish to draw attention to three issues.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to thank you and the honourable Members for what has been a very constructive and useful debate on this excellent report.
Anyone who is familiar with the global Europe trade strategy that we presented in November 2006 will realise that my advocacy of deep, comprehensive free-trade agreements that really contribute to increasing the sum total of world trade, and not simply divert it, has been a feature of our approach alongside our commitment to the WTO talks - the Doha Round.
On agriculture, we have a text in which not everything is to our liking, but there is nothing that we cannot handle in that agriculture text or that will push us beyond our mandate.
It is an incremental process, rather than a big bang or a sudden shock.
Our prosperity and our opportunities beget opportunities for those who live and work in those emerging economies.
However, if this means higher costs for public procurement in those economies, if it means inefficiencies, if it means a lack of transparency, and indeed in some cases corruption in the operation of public procurement, who shoulders the costs of that?
The answer is the very local people, the very local workers and the very local taxpayers in emerging economies and developing countries who can ill afford to shoulder those costs.
First of all, let me thank again all those who have enriched this debate, not just today but ever since the debate started, through their contributions, amendments and even the informal conversations we have had, which has resulted in a final text which is not the work of one rapporteur but of everyone involved.
There are a lot of new things in this report, and we wish you all the best in implementing them.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 19 February 2008.
