We would very much welcome it, Mr President, if the Lok Sabha were to be able to respond by setting up a delegation for relations with the European Parliament in order to derive the maximum benefit from this deepening relationship and to make contacts between the two parliaments easier.
European civilisation has a unique place in human history.
This has matured into a very strong bond through sustained trade and intellectually satisfying collaboration in many areas of science and technology.
For example, on 23 April 2007, the Italian scientific satellite Agile was launched by the Indian Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle rocket system into a very precise orbit.
The European Union and India radiate a message to the world that regional cooperation and interregional collaboration will lead to a win-win situation for all, so that we can have a politically and socio-economically emergent civilisation.
We need to create an enlightened society with three components: 1) education with a value system; 2) religion transforming into spirituality; and 3) economic development for societal transformation.
In this class, he used to give lectures on people such as Buddha, Confucius, St Augustine, Caliph Omar, Mahatma Gandhi, Einstein, and Abraham Lincoln and to tell moral stories related to our civilisational heritage.
Even though these lessons were given to me in 1950 during my college days, they inspire me even today.
The town of Thumba in Kerala in southern India was selected for space research as it was near the magnetic equator.
The major challenge for Vikram Sarabhai was to locate the site in a specific area.
I was asked to talk about cultural dialogue and would like to recall an incident that commonly occurs in many parts of my country.
In our house, periodically, I used to see three unique people meet: Pakshi Lakshmana Shastrigal, who was the head priest of the famous Rameshwaram temple, a Vedic scholar, Reverend Father Bodal, who built the first church on Rameshwaram Island, and my father who was an imam in the mosque.
Whenever I meet the young and experienced in my country, I narrate these two experiences.
Nearly 220 million people out of a billion people must have their quality of life raised in both rural and urban areas.
We propose to realise the vision of transforming India into a developed nation before 2020 by energising and igniting the minds of the 540 million youth of the nation below 25 years of age.
Based on the progress visualised for the nation during the next two decades, its power-generating capacity has to increase to 400 000 MW by the year 2030 from the present capacity of 130 000 MW.
To meet the challenges of these missions, we can draw inspiration from the saying of Maharishi Patanjali from about 2 500 years ago.
