Elimination of violence against women (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council on the International Day for the elimination of violence against women by Mrs Svensson, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality - B7-0220/2009), the oral question to the Commission on the International Day for the elimination of violence against women by Mrs Svensson, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality - B7-0220/2009).
Madam President, today is 25 November, which marks the tenth anniversary of the establishment by the UN of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
Society must take responsibility for stopping this violence.
Male violence against women is, in my view, a clear indication of the unequal power relationship between men and women.
The work to stop the violence of men towards women and children needs to be based on the realisation that it is about power, control, ideas about gender and sexuality and a prevailing societal structure in which men are considered superior to women.
However, it is, above all, an equality problem.
We therefore need to tackle the problem of violence against women from an equality perspective.
This year we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the United Nations Resolution establishing 25 November as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
The best strategy for combating this violence is to take a holistic approach and work from a broad definition of violence against women.
In accordance with Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Council is to promote equality between men and women in all activities.
The Member States have the right to draw up their own plans for combating violence against women, but they also benefit from cooperation.
The 2007 Decision establishing the Daphne III Programme, which has been so important in combating violence against children, young people and women, has also been significant.
The Council itself has already taken concrete measures to improve access to statistics on violence against women.
The Council, which is aware of this, has adopted a series of conclusions on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment in Development Cooperation, in which we stress the importance of tackling all forms of gender-based violence, including such harmful practices and customs as genital mutilation.
The problem of violence against women represents a more general problem - a lack of equality.
At its meeting on 30 November 2009, the Council is expected to adopt a number of conclusions on gender equality: strengthening growth and employment - input to the post-2010 Lisbon Strategy.
A large part of our work to combat violence against women here in Europe is carried out within an international framework.
On 30 November, the Council is expected to adopt a series of conclusions on this matter.
The Council is actively involved in this work, with a significant part of it being devoted to combating violence against women.
The problem of violence against women knows no national boundaries.
With its road map for equality between women and men for the period 2006-2010, the European Commission made a commitment to help eradicate sexual violence and violence linked to the trafficking in human beings.
Firstly, the Commission has identified measures within the context of the Daphne III Programme in order to implement a more consistent EU strategy for combating violence against children, young people and women.
Thanks to an annual budget of approximately EUR 17 million in 2009, the Commission targeted the at-risk groups directly.
The creation of an expert review group is envisaged as part of the Daphne III work programme for 2010.
This group will be able to help identify necessary measures at Community level and encourage a common approach among the Member States.
To this end, the Commission proposed, in March, a change to the European criminal framework relating to the fight against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, which affects the most vulnerable women and girls in particular.
I would now like to give the floor to my colleague, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
Madam President, honourable Members, as you are all aware, I have always - obviously as a woman myself - been involved in the fight against violence against women, but also in the matter of the empowerment of women in general, not just in the last five years of my term as Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, but prior to that as a minister.
As far as the outside world is concerned, beyond specific interventions in developing countries, about which my colleague will speak a little later, the fight against violence against women has become an important focal point in the EU's human rights policy, and the action is reinforced by the specific guidelines adopted in December 2008.
The implementation of these guidelines is particularly pronounced at local level in third countries where the European Union is present.
In around 90 third countries the embassies of EU Member States and the delegations of the European Commission have developed their own action plans, which aim to implement these guidelines and set out a whole list of initiatives to be carried out in the period 2009-2010.
The subject 'Women, peace and security', which is what Resolutions 1325 and 1820 of the Security Council of the United Nations are about, has captured our full attention.
Moreover, in December 2008, the European Union also adopted a global approach for the implementation of these resolutions.
This idea has been approved by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and I am very proud of that.
I value greatly the possibilities that EU policies, whether internal or external, have offered the fight against violence against women, and I am delighted with the support they have received in general.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of violence against women is a very important topic that requires a greater effort and commitment by all of us: European institutions, Member States and civil society.
The Commission must submit a plan as soon as possible for an EU policy to combat all forms of violence against women.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, it is not only because of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women that, when we consider a resolution on this matter, we should ask whether we have done enough.
It is time for a comprehensive EU strategy leading to a concrete action plan aimed at fighting all forms of violence against women, including trafficking in women.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, it is indeed necessary to establish a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women.
Zero tolerance towards all forms of violence against women must become a top priority of all institutions throughout Europe.
Parliament's demand to the Council and the Commission for a targeted and more coherent EU policy plan to combat all forms of violence against women is a step in the right direction, as is the observatory on violence that has already been mentioned.
Furthermore, I wish also to remind the Commission and the Council of my request on addressing violence against women in the gender-related dimension of human rights violations internationally, in particular, in the context of the bilateral association and international trade agreements in force and those under negotiation, as is also established in my report on feminicides, I also wish to ask the Commissioner if she can be a bit more concrete about this.
The EU can be proactive in this area by providing resources for education and increased awareness and by opening up the debate on violence against not only women but also against men: according to the UK Home Office, one in six men will suffer domestic violence.
In it, she argues that violence against women is a structural and widespread problem across the whole of Europe and that it arises out of inequality between men and women.
The Party for Freedom condemns, in the strongest possible terms, any violence against women.
Unfortunately, the statistics still indicate that 95% of victims are women.
In the case of human trafficking, 80% of victims are also women.
Some women are murdered simply because they are women.
This problem is at an appalling level in developing countries, especially in countries ravaged by wars and conflicts.
Rape and sexual violence against girls, women and children have reached epidemic proportions in African countries riven by wars, in particular, the Congo, Somalia, Burundi and Liberia.
Unfortunately, the huge incidence of violent acts is not only typical of countries in conflict.
This is also evident on a large scale even in the most peaceful and democratic countries in the world.
Finally, I would like to remind you of the events which took place as part of the development committee devoted to the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and also thank Commissioner De Gucht for attending these events and for the interest he has shown in this matter, as well as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner for her attendance at this debate. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dedicate this International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women to the memory of Anna Politkovskaya, a journalist and a woman who paid for her love of truth with her life, to the African women in conflicts, and to the many forms of suffering of women in Europe that often go unobserved.
Alcohol- and drug-related violence is growing among young people and minors, and perhaps we do not mention this often enough when we discuss violence against women. (PL) Mr President, millions of women are beaten, molested, bought, sold, raped and killed only because they are women.
Women do not have the right to an abortion, and there are plans to deprive them of their right to in vitro fertilisation.
The European Union has a duty to protect its most vulnerable citizens.
Fighting violence against women is a battle for fundamental human rights, and the Daphne Programme, which supports actions aimed at combating all forms of violence, is insufficient.
I support the initiative of organising a European Year to combat violence against women, which our institution has been calling for now for more than a decade. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate what has already been said by Mrs Matera and Mrs Stassen on violence for cultural and religious reasons.
It is only right that men also become involved in this struggle.
Therefore, I call on as many of my fellow Members as possible to join us in this fight against violence against women, because as well as physical violence, there is psychological violence and often, as you know, words can hurt more than blows. (RO) Violence against women, in its diverse forms, varies according to the economic, cultural and political background in society.
Any form of violence against women is an unacceptable infringement of human rights and hampers gender equality.
References have already been made to the Congo, where these dreadful acts have been taking place for years and where rapists even claim young children and elderly women as their victims.
Violence against women is a violation of human rights and an obstacle to their participation in social and political life, in public life and at work, preventing them being citizens with full rights.
It follows that, in 2008, 156 women died from injuries inflicted by their spouse in France, where almost one in ten women is a victim of marital violence.
On 9 November, the Presidency hosted a conference at which Member States and representatives of civil society had the opportunity to share their experiences and information relating to combating violence against women.
I would like to express my thanks for this extremely important debate.
The road is long and the obstacles are many, but our vision must be for the violence against women to stop.
We are talking a lot about Congo, but we should also talk about other developing countries like, for example, Pakistan.
There is a clear reference to that in the Treaty of Lisbon, but the Declaration of Human Rights as such is not a legal basis on which to launch a directive.
I think that, at all levels and in all of our spheres of responsibility, we really must bear this problem in mind.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 26 November 2009.
I believe that then, Member States will be quicker to improve national legislation combating violence against women, especially when combating violence against women at home, and would also effectively implement national action programmes for combating violence against women.
This resolution calls for a targeted and coherent EU policy plan to combat all forms of violence against women, as stated in the EU Roadmap for Equality between women and men.
In Ireland last year, 1 947 women and 3 269 children were admitted to refuges.
Similarly, statistics in other Member States are misleading.
in writing. - Violence against women is a serious concern in the world.
The Daphne Programme is a good start, but we need to do more at EU Member State level.
I think that it is very important that the Spanish Presidency has decided to make a priority of the fight against violence.
No social problem can be solved completely in just six months.
in writing. - Coercive sterilisation is one of the most grievous forms of violence against women and an impermissible violation of human rights.
The UN campaign to end violence against women worldwide in 2008 revealed that women from the ages of 15 to 44 are more at risk from rape and domestic violence than from cancer, road accidents, war or malaria.
It is estimated that from 500 000 to 2 million people, and the majority of these are women and children, become the victims of human trafficking every year, forced into prostitution, forced labour and slavery or bondage.
Therefore, I am pleased about the fact that this problem has been presented in the resolution prepared by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
Today, 25 November, is not only International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, but also the day on which the Christian world remembers Saint Catherine of Alexandria who, at the beginning of the 4th century, was imprisoned and became a victim of violence, a martyr to conscience and freedom of expression.
Some people overstate the problem of violence in such a way that I sometimes get the feeling that we women do not have any other problems.
