Preparations for the European Council (8-9 March 2007) (debate) The next item is a statement by the Council and the Commission on the preparations for the European Council on 8 and 9 March.
We are of course delighted that this year's spring summit is being held at a time when the economy is in a good state and good things are happening on the labour markets.
Following intensive preparatory work, which was characterised by very close and very fruitful cooperation with the Commission, the meeting of the European Council on 8 and 9 March is ready to be hammered into shape.
This round is concluded by the Council responsible for employment and social issues and the ECOFIN Council, which meet on 22 and 27 February respectively.
As the lawmaking authority, the Council and Parliament have a particular responsibility for ensuring that proposals from the Commission for the simplification of legislation are both thoroughly scrutinised and promptly processed.
This package includes measures that reinforce competition on the internal energy market, that attach greater importance to renewable energies and help to develop better energy technologies and greater energy efficiency, and it is of great significance in this respect that greater weight is being given to the foreign policy components of energy policy.
Since climate change presents us with the challenge of the century, we are firmly determined to bring about ambitious and forward-looking resolutions, including quantitative targets, in this area too, and the proposals put forward by the Commission for full coordination on energy matters provide us with a good basis for this.
The European Council must work towards sending out a strong signal in favour of the further development of the international climate protection regime after 2012.
Firstly, it gives us a chance to show citizens a European Union taking ambitious, clear decisions on subjects that they care deeply about.
Secondly, we will be called upon to agree a declaration that will not only celebrate our achievements over these 50 years, but set out what we can do in the future.
A successful spring Council would provide the perfect springboard for an ambitious Berlin declaration.
We have a real opportunity to show what the European Union can offer, of course, in full compliance with our renewed commitment to better regulation.
I expect the spring European Council to send a convincing and strong signal on the need for determined action on climate change.
The comprehensive resolution that you adopted on 14 December last year reflects the essential role that Parliament plays in this context.
It means making research in this area our top priority, for example as the first target for the European Institute of Technology.
It means a precise, ambitious and, in particular, binding target of bringing renewable energy into the mainstream by 2020.
Climate change and energy are integral parts of the broader issue on which the spring Council will focus, the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs.
The consensus for change needs to be translated into action in all parts of Europe and in all sectors.
The spring Council needs to give a clear message that we will press ahead with reform at all levels as set out in the Commission's annual progress report on the Lisbon Strategy, including the country-specific recommendations.
The Commission strongly welcomes Parliament's support on this point.
Bold, ambitious and long-term decisions from the spring Council in March will put the European Union on the road to finding real answers to these most urgent questions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, each generation has a duty and responsibility to do its bit for progress.
If, however, we want to give today's children any prospect of a quality life and a good job, then there is only one answer: to ensure that we are competitive.
For the majority of our group, there is room for nuclear energy as well, even though we fully respect the principle of subsidiarity in this respect.
Since Lisbon is about people, the process must also be supported by people.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when global problems are piling up, a number of EU Member States are tempted by nationalism.
The vision of Europe cannot be summarised solely in terms of the internal market.
Last year, China became the world's top steel manufacturer.
Admittedly, we are giving priority to ambitious objectives, but with deadlines in 2020, 2030 or 2050, that is to say beyond the foreseeable future.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, EU growth in 2006 hit 2.7 % - the highest in six years.
Well, we hold this debate annually; some Member States perennially ignore our exhortations.
Solidarity cannot mean those governments who have gone through the tough process of reform now having to bail out those who have not.
My group believes, too, that investing in green technologies is key to containing climate change and catering for energy security in Europe.
If that is the case, then I wonder who is meant to be working on the Berlin Declaration, so important a statement that the EU is to carry it with it into its future.
I do not see that as being in any way compatible with the purposes of a summit at which the question should be put as to what can be done to create jobs on a sustainable basis, to combat climate change on a sustainable basis, and - this too on a sustainable basis - to give the citizens of the European Union working and living conditions of equally high quality.
Chancellor Merkel has made it clear that she is determined to press on and, in fact, this very week in Berlin discussions about the Constitution are going on in secret.
If you push on relentlessly with this Constitution, if you go on denying the peoples of Europe a say in their future, you are storing up very serious problems for our children.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (DE) Mr President, perhaps I might be permitted, with the European Council in the offing, to make a number of basic observations in relation to liberalisation and energy policy.
I am therefore most disappointed that the starting point of the Council's negotiations on energy is the fight against climate change.
I feel that both our citizens and our businesses are more interested in the price of energy, and especially in its safe, uninterrupted supply.
The Presidency should come up with a proper proposal on how to guarantee uninterrupted supplies from Russia to the whole of the EU and not just to Germany.
The Commission, too, has set new priorities for it.
Secondly, we have succeeded in making it clear that, although there may well be three pillars to the Lisbon Strategy, our ability to pursue a proper environmental and social policy is dependent on growth and job creation.
Let me remind you of what happened last year, when the Heads of State or Government were not to be persuaded that energy policy really had claims on Europe's concern and that a European approach to the subject was needed, when the view still prevailed that these things could be sorted out at the national level.
In this resolution, we have said that renewable energies must, of course, be promoted in so far as possible, but we have also highlighted the continuing importance of nuclear power, which will be made inevitable in future by the problem of CO2 emissions, a problem addressed as a whole in this resolution as well, and also, of course, discussed in much greater depth in the parallel resolution on climate change.
Something else to which reference has been made was the remaining need for us to make the internal market in energy a reality.
What really is important now, as I see it, is proper benchmarking that makes it possible for us to review the reports from the Member States and say what we think is necessary in order that, through this benchmarking, the Lisbon Strategy goals be achieved even more effectively than they have been in the past. (DE) Mr President, frequent reference has been made already to the Constitution, under which Europe gets more powers as regards energy policy.
Since Mr Goebbels has already mentioned many of these things, I really would like to see all these things spelled out at the summit.
If we do not, on international markets, have an unmistakeable European profile, then we will not be able to do those things that we have to do for our own people, that is to say, to ensure the security of Europe's energy supply. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, this House will be adopting a resolution in which we make a number of demands of the Council.
The most important thing that this House expects of the Council is plain for all to see; we want a strong single energy policy for Europe.
If we can tell the public that it is European policy that has brought their constantly increasing gas and electricity bills back to a tolerable level, then that is good for Europe.
The latest studies on the European energy market have again brought out the fact that we are miles away from a working internal market in energy, as Mr Lehne has already pointed out.
The second reason why a working single energy market is important is the competitiveness of our enterprises, particularly on the production side.
It is true to say that sometimes things have to be required as a matter of policy to get new paths opened up, and that is what we are doing with this report, in order - or so we hope - to achieve the climate protection goals using a European energy policy; about that, there is consensus in this House.
Thirdly, then, we need the single energy policy for the sake of a Europe that faces up to its global responsibilities.
Europe is a front-runner in many areas of this field, and this role needs to be consolidated and built upon if we are to have a knowledge-based economic order.
This House is in agreement with the Commission's proposals on energy efficiency and the target of saving 20% by 2020.
I would like to add that I believe we should be conducting this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg. (LV) The agenda for the European Council's spring summit is at the moment definitely the most important issue in the European Union as a whole and in each Member State.
I hope that this important issue in the European Council's spring summit will help to boost a common understanding of mutual interdependence regarding both tasks and achievements in each Member State individually and in the European Union as a whole.
My second example concerns French private sector employees, half of whom have salaries lower than EUR 1 400 per month, as Mrs Royal reminded us this Sunday.
I think that the European Union can help.
I also think that if Mrs Merkel and Mrs Royal want to give some practical content to the social protocol that they are announcing with a view to amending the draft Constitutional Treaty, the European Union should provide itself with the resources finally to establish a minimum corporation tax in the European Union, which means that, if there is a desire to maintain the unanimity rule, one group of countries will have to resolve to take the lead. (PT) In this debate on the contribution to the forthcoming Spring Council, which is set to assess the implementation of the so-called 'Lisbon Agenda' adopted in 2000, we should be mindful of what has actually happened over the course of these seven years in terms of the targets and challenges set at the time, with regard, on the one hand, to full employment, reducing poverty, infrastructure and equipment to support childhood and equal opportunities for women, and, on the other, to the much-vaunted objective of having the most advanced knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010.
Hence the continued high levels of unemployment, with poverty and social exclusion affecting 72 million people, the manifold increase in unstable work with fewer and fewer rights, and increased problems with the intake of new Member States, without adequate financial responses from the Community budgets.
Consequently, in the alternative resolution to this debate tabled by our group, we have opted to give prominence to a genuine pact for economic progress and social development, and a European strategy for solidarity and sustainable development based on greater solidarity on the part of the most developed countries with better and further-reaching distribution of Community funds.
The farce in Madrid was an impasse, and an insult to diplomatic rules.
With an annual growth rate of just 2.6%, compared with 3.6% in the United States and 10% in China, the Europe of Brussels is still lagging behind the world's great economic powers.
With growth at half mast, a population growing at below replacement rate, and businesses relocating their activities, the European Union is, unfortunately, continuing to decline economically.
I think it is important that in the Berlin Declaration we make it clear that the problems and the challenges we are facing are there because of our success, not because of failure.
If we had failed, if we had not been able to develop the European Union, no one would have asked us to solve the problem, but now we are able to do it and so we have the responsibility.
These ideas are as old as the Lisbon Strategy itself.
If we want to achieve the aims of better regulation, we should not dodge questions about the distribution of power or the political balance within the European Union.
Treaty reform must be subjected to truly pragmatic assessment in terms of costs which legislation based on a new remit for the Council will incur.
We can do this in our part of the world by improving research.
Then here too there is the bug called Turkey, controlled by America, which does not allow the oil from the Aegean to be exported. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The Lisbon Strategy is our regular topic of discussion in the run-up to the Spring Summit every year, and we would do well to take more seriously the goals that we - in the Council, in the Commission, in Parliament - set ourselves.
If the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy is to go ahead, then, we also need to take climate change into account and work to do something about it. (PL) Mr President, in 2005 the Lisbon Strategy, which was once described as a load of wishful thinking, was adapted to reflect the real priorities of the societies of Member States of the Union.
Finally, the European Union must also reject the completely outdated idea of trying to compete against the United States, and replace it with close and sound partnership. (PL) Mr President, in general, the citizens of Europe do not understand what the Lisbon Strategy is about.
This globalisation reaches Europe's ports by boat, our airports by plane, or via our roads, and, though not yet sufficiently, by train and by inland waterway.
We are tackling this globalisation by means of instruments such as Galileo, SESAR - the air traffic control system - RTMS, E-Safetynet, etc.
Furthermore, Mr Harbour agreed to include it as the third paragraph of the conclusions of the Working Group on the internal market and innovation at last week's meeting.
With that in mind, it is important that we bring those excluded from the labour market into employment by making sure the 2000 Employment Framework Directive is implemented equally across all Member States.
The first one is on the Lisbon Agenda.
That protectionism needs to end and we need to see a message in the Lisbon Agenda and the Berlin Declaration on that point.
I would like to say, from the point of view of democracy and of political action in the energy sector, with a view to the policies that we have to implement, that there is a significant danger attached to reducing, because, from a democratic point of view - and Parliament has a great interest here - we will move on from having thirty-five legal bases to acting with eighty-five, and that is of immense and decisive importance.
We can talk about climate change, we can talk about energy and the social model, but if we do not achieve a positive conclusion in the Doha Round - which clearly cannot include these elements directly, elements that must be taken into account and placed on the agenda in our international relations - I believe that alone we will not be able to resolve problems that have a global dimension in the world.
A common EU energy market would be a security guarantee in relation to third countries, and it would help to solve energy crises which can arise within the EU or can be provoked from outside the EU.
We can do so much in this House and we have done a lot on the services directive, the prime example recently, but a lot more is needed as well.
As somebody from one of the national parliaments said at our meeting, the internal market is crucial because it gives strength in depth to the whole of the Lisbon Strategy.
I would hope the German Government, as opposed to the German Presidency, will be taking a lead in this area.
We have to take a global lead but we can only do that if we have action to reduce our own emissions, to cut our use of carbon and to make the emissions trading scheme much more effective and much more watertight. (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Lisbon Strategy is Europe's answer to the challenges of globalisation.
The combination of economic, social and environmental reforms at national and European level is the only way for us to achieve our joint objectives of improving competitiveness and creating more and better jobs.
Instead, it must do better in the policies that do require decision-making at at least European level and that represent true European added value: energy, climate, security and immigration, to name but a few.
I feel it is right to highlight the importance of this vote here in this Chamber and in this context for two further reasons: firstly, because the clear victory for the 'yes' vote corresponds to the recommendations adopted by Parliament calling for abortion to be legal and safe in all Member States, and secondly because, by happy coincidence, as mentioned by Mr Poignant, the Spring Council is due to take place on 8 March.
As regards the Lisbon Strategy, it is also necessary to strengthen the social element throughout the Member States, in order to enhance the work-life balance for European men and women.
We are now seeing a recovery of economic growth and this Summit, to be held in March, which will revise that Lisbon Strategy, must confirm to the Europeans that economic growth in 2006 is not a passing event, but that it can be reinforced within the framework of the global economy and of that recovery.
Those of us who feel profoundly European believe that there is still time to restore that process and not to let it die by itself. (PL) Mr President, once again we are debating a programme for Europe that needs to be far-reaching, clear and able to meet global challenges.
The Member States continue to focus on their own strategic interests, which are then reflected in their domestic political decisions.
A European energy policy, on the other hand, means acting in harmony and solidarity.
The European Union must speak with one voice when negotiating with its main energy suppliers in order to achieve a sound, long-term partnership and agreements on energy cooperation.
The Lisbon Strategy represents a vision that, very much in a spirit of reform, seeks to preserve the values that lie at the heart of the European social model.
The Lisbon Strategy therefore lays down political guidelines on the need to modernise social protection systems, which is a necessary response to what is happening in Europe and around the world.
It thus becomes a significant instrument in guaranteeing social peace and political stability, without which there can be no lasting economic progress.
Because of the 2004 reform, I now feel more optimistic than before as regards the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy.
I therefore wish to congratulate Mr Barroso and the Commission on the reform that, in timely fashion, they chose to introduce into the Lisbon Strategy. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a great deal has been said about the successful implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, or at any rate about the endeavours to achieve it.
After all, this field has proved to be a source of new jobs - and these, in turn, will offer opportunities for exporting products outside the EU.
In so doing, however, we must show at national level that this impetus and this coordination have come from Europe.
It is true that two other Member States have voted against it, but, at the same time - as the German Chancellor said in her speech on the German Presidency here a few weeks ago - many people who reject this Constitutional Treaty also want the European Union to have more powers and responsibilities, for example in the field of energy.
The outcome of the spring Council will be very important in this respect, as will its capacity to deliver on the crucial issues on the agenda, including climate change.
It is important to say that there is a longer-term objective and target for what we have to do in order to fight climate change.
The 30% cut in developed countries' emissions by 2020 is a necessary step towards the longer-term objective of reducing them by as much as 50% below 1990 levels by 2050.
The Commission has made impact assessments that show that taking action to limit climate change is fully compatible with sustaining global growth.
This is a small insurance premium to pay for significantly reducing the risk of irreversible damage to our economy and to our planet, and especially if you compare it with the Stern Review's estimate that uncontrolled climate change will cost between 5 and 20% of GDP in the longer term.
Listening to all these interesting speeches, I am reminded of the intimate link between the growth and jobs strategy and sustainable development, because we have heard all the arguments for why we as Europeans would like to see economic growth, coupled with social security and maintenance of a high level of environmental protection, while continuing to be ambitious.
I think that sustainable development is an objective which is gaining ground more and more as the vision for Europe and for the world.
This must go hand in hand with a flexible approach to all forms of financing, in particular venture capital, taking into account the level of development of a given innovative company or project.
