Part I Subject: European universities A survey carried out in 2006 by the Times Higher Education Supplement, ranking universities on five continents, lists 40 European universities, mainly in the UK, among the top 100 universities in the world.
The best answer is therefore to invest more and better.
I would not call this a subsidy from the European Union, but rather support for European cooperation, because we put together monies and distribute them in line with agreed rules, and these rules should lead us to excellence, the transfer of knowledge, and the rewarding or promotion of quality, not just quantity, in our academic institutions.
We are not going to organise our ranking around Erasmus, but Erasmus is a trademark or highly important, popular way of improving mobility in Europe.
The European credit transfer system came about as a result of this cooperation in the 1990s.
Subject: CO2 emissions from new motor vehicles What is the Commission's current estimate of the average CO2 emissions from new motor vehicles being placed on the European motor market?
In 2004, average CO2 emissions from new passenger cars were 12.4% lower than in 1995, falling from 186 grams of emissions per kilometre to 163 grams.
Failure to attain the target value of 140 grams per kilometre would threaten the credibility of voluntary commitments as an alternative to legally binding regulations.
The CARS 21 High Level Group recommends the future strategy consist of an integrated approach involving all relevant stakeholders and thus a wide palette of measures.
The Commission's proposal provides for a reduction to 200 milligrams per kilometre and is currently being debated in Parliament.
A second measure also being discussed at the present time is my proposal to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles from 200 to 80 milligrams.
This would enter into force in 2014 or 2015. (DE) Commissioner, these CO2 emissions have a global impact, and of course global CO2 emissions also have an impact on Europe.
Subject: Method used to calculate an increase in rates of excise duty on alcohol The EU institutions are currently examining a Commission proposal on increasing rates of excise duty on alcohol.
In order to take into account inflation in the period between 1993, when the current rates of excise duty on alcohol came into force, and 2005, it is proposed that the minimum rates of excise duty be increased by 31%.
However, the new Member States joined the EU on 1 May 2004 and made commitments from that date regarding minimum rates of excise duty on alcoholic drinks.
This proposal was inspired by a call made unanimously by the Council on 12 April 2005.
The proposal provides for the proposed increases to come into force from 1 January 2008.
However, in order to ease the difficulties that some Member States may have in increasing their national rates to meet the revalorised minimum, transitional periods have been proposed until 1 January 2011.
The inflationary increase is 31%, based on Eurostat data and the harmonised index of consumer prices.
For beer this means that the current minimum rate of 74.8 euro cents per hectolitre per degree will rise to 98 euro cents.
Germany, for instance, will need to increase its national rate on beer by 24.5% in order to meet the revalorised minimum.
Furthermore, under the transition period proposed, Germany will have until 1 January 2011 to make the necessary increase.
It did not, therefore, gain the unanimous support requested, so we postponed the final decision and debate to the next Ecofin meeting which is due on 28 November.
As honourable Members are certainly aware, it will also be the subject of discussions in Parliament. (DE) Did the Commissioner know that, when Bavaria joined the German Reich in 1871, it did so only on condition that beer be recognised as a basic foodstuff whose consumption was permitted even during military service?
Should the Ecofin Council agree, we could find some other starting date, but that is not yet something officially tabled for the next Ecofin meeting, which will take place on 28 November.
The Commission is, of course, trying its best to find a solution that is universal and the same for all Member States, be they new or old, and I do hope that on 28 November we will finally arrive at a solution acceptable to all Member States. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, although Europeans traditionally like a drink, alcohol consumption has been declining for years even without taxes and health warnings.
The current excise duty rates were established in 1992 and came into effect on 1 January 1993.
What the European Union has already achieved is harmonisation of minimum excise duty rates, and Member States are free to set their national rate much higher than the minimum.
For instance, as far as spirits are concerned, I know there are some Scandinavian Member States where the actual excise duty rate is more than ten times the mandatory minimum.
National courts also have at their disposal a number of mechanisms in case of doubt about the application of Article 81 and Article 82 to a proceeding.
The Commission, of course, welcomes all initiatives taken by Member States to increase the expertise of the national judiciary in EC competition law.
Do you think, Commissioner, that a strong institution merging the regulatory authorities - such as, for example, as in Holland, where the competition authority has taken over the energy regulatory authority and the telecommunications authority - would be a good model for other Member States as well?
We should take into account that national courts have only had the right to apply under Articles 81 and 82 in full in actions already commenced.
Coordination between the national authorities and the Commission is intense and on a regular daily basis.
You mentioned De Beers and I shall write to you in detail about what we have already done.
We will remain alert and follow this case. (EL) Madam President, I should like to comment on the Commission's position on the merger between competition authorities and regulatory authorities.
As far as the national factor is concerned, this forms part of the European competition network and, as I have already mentioned, the working relationships within that network are absolutely collegial.
If so, is this unequal treatment of European productions acceptable in the light of the task of promoting cultural diversity in the EU pursuant to Article 151 of the EU Treaty?
The Commission is assessing that case on the basis of the 2001 Cinema Communication, which provides that Member States can grant state aid to film production if the content of the film concerned is cultural, according to verifiable national criteria.
Neither Article 151 of the Treaty nor the Cinema Communication exclude the possibility that third-country productions or co-productions can benefit from state aid provided by Member States to support films.
However, the Cinema Communication allows Member States to require that up to 80% of the film production budget be spent in the territory concerned in return for state aid.
The cost of a US actor being filmed in the UK would be eligible under the UK film tax incentive, but the cost of an actor from another Member State would also be eligible if the filming takes place in the UK.
It is true that the cost of a UK or European actor shooting in another Member State would not be eligible for a claim under the UK scheme.
However, the co-producer from the other Member State could include within their production budget the cost of the UK or European actor in their Member State, and these costs might benefit from some support from that Member State.
First, there are the partnerships for the provision of primary health care, including for HIV/AIDS, which have received EUR 25 million: this programme establishes partnerships between the NGOs and five of the nine provincial health ministries.
The second programme comprises support for the South African Government's Comprehensive HIV/Aids Care Management and Treatment Plan, amounting to EUR 25 million.
There is also a programme targeting HIV/AIDS in the field of education - the programme on AIDS in higher education, HEAIDS - which has received EUR 20 million.
A regional HIV/AIDS awareness and education programme - which has received Community funding of EUR 10 million, in addition to EUR 20 million provided by the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Ireland - was approved by the Commission in 2002.
For the last 14 years, Soul City has been receiving considerable aid from the European Community to develop its 'edutainment' - education and entertainment - approach, which involves the use of TV and radio soaps, backed up by leaflets and other documents in a wide range of languages, providing more detailed information on the subjects covered in the broadcasts.
Member of the Commission. (FR) I believe that the fight against this scourge depends primarily on there being far more consistency between the various players.
At the refinancing meeting in London, we paid something like an additional EUR 90 million into this Global Fund.
I believe that this action is effective, but that there is still a long way to go.
Yes, I think that we are effective, but we will never be effective enough.
We can only bet on the quantity of resources, on the strategy of the experts - of whom there are many, sometimes even very many - and on the strategy and the goodwill of the players - of whom there are many, sometimes even very many.
I believe that there is certainly a systematic approach to be taken in this regard.
I cannot tell you whether we are effective, because I would be lying if I said that, yes, we are effective.
I believe that we are effective, but I cannot make a bet on it. - (LT) Madam President, Commissioner, I have a question concerning HIV/AIDS prevention.
Let us take the case of Africa, for example: it is clear to those who know Africa that one of the tragedies facing Africa today - it is not spoken of much, but I am very mindful of it - is that all of the policies are centralised.
We therefore need to get local communities much more involved.
I should like to say in this regard - even if it is perhaps very difficult - that we must stop constantly changing strategy, for want, as it were, of immediate results.
This is a tragic, terrible scourge, and we therefore need to start everything more or less from scratch.
There are other countries that are making significant efforts.
We have therefore provided a 'migration' facility with EUR 25 million, taken from the balance of the B-envelope under the 9th EDF.
Let us imagine, for example, that we could devote ten times more resources to our development policies.
Seventeen African Heads of State or Government, countless ministers, experts, Mark Malloch Brown from the UNDP and others will also be present.
If you take Rwanda, we are funding road building projects, which are directly carried out by the unemployed, by people who have been put to work, who admittedly earn just one and a half dollars a day, but who have a status, who work and who therefore provide for their families.
