Recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the Eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (debate) The next item is the report by Iles Braghetto, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a multi-annual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean - C6-0110/2007 -.
The Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna is a key stock for the Community.
I am convinced that the recovery plan adopted by the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas in 2006 represents a realistic chance for the gradual recovery of bluefin tuna if it is fully respected.
I am sure that we are in agreement on the objectives of urgently taking measures to eliminate overfishing and to ensure strict compliance with ICCAT measures, in order to bring the bluefin tuna stock to sustainable levels.
In this context, the Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 7 and 8 concerning the establishment of annual fishing plans to ensure a balance between the fishing effort of the Community fleet and the quotas.
In addition, the Commission asks the Member States concerned to include in their operational plans a reduction of their fishing capacity, either temporary cessation or scrapping, to ensure that their quotas for 2008 and the following years are fully respected.
With respect to Amendment 3, let me state first of all that I am well aware that the number of cages for tuna fattening has increased greatly since 1990 and that their capacity exceeds the total sum of the TAC available.
In this context, I cannot accept Parliament's amendments on the deletion of the derogations, that is Amendments 4 and 6, or Amendments 12 and 13 on the renaming of the plan, the modification of the EC quotas and the introduction of a new payback system.
These amendments are not in line with the recovery plan adopted by ICCAT and the ICCAT rules on payback.
Similarly, I cannot accept Amendment 10 regarding traps, since the proposal does not include measures to address this issue.
At the meeting of the Compliance Committee, which took place in Antalya on 8 and 9 November, the contracting parties - notably the United States and Canada - criticised the lack of compliance with ICCAT rules.
As expected, the European Community was severely criticised for overshooting the TAC in 2007.
At the same time, the contracting parties acknowledged the difficulties for the European Community fleet in adapting to the reality of the recovery plan, which entered into force in 2007, and welcomed the European Community proposal on a specific payback regime.
The Compliance Committee has adopted a specific recommendation concerning a payback system for the overshoot of the EC quota in 2007, which comes to 4 440 tonnes, based on an EC proposal.
In accordance with this recommendation, the overharvesting of the European Community's quota in 2007 will result in a yearly deduction of 1 480 tonnes from its annual quota for the period 2009-2011.
This recommendation will be adopted by ICCAT during its plenary session on 18 November.
Nevertheless, we have to reassure the ICCAT parties that the European Community will do its utmost to ensure that quotas allocated to the vessels of our Member States are scrupulously monitored by those Member States and by the European Commission, in order to ensure respect for the quota set for 2008 and the forthcoming years.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I take a very positive view of the Commission proposal to transpose the recovery plan for bluefin tuna agreed at ICCAT into the legal order and I agree with the Commissioner that the measures it contains, if applied correctly, will allow a gradual recovery of stocks both in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I too would like to begin by acknowledging the work done by our colleague Mr Braghetto in this report.
As if that were not enough, the plan, which has already been implemented provisionally in 2007, has gone so badly in practice that the European Union has exceeded its quota by 26%, which, in an unprecedented move, has forced legal proceedings to be taken against all the countries which failed to comply with the rules, especially France and Italy.
I believe two wrongs never make a right: if you have conservation then I believe you must also be prepared to pay compensation - I do not believe there is any alternative.
The fact is that the tough measures we are now seeing in this area, with the total closure of fisheries before the end of the year, an attempt to decommission a substantial part of the fleet and the prospect of a total paralysis of activity, even if it perhaps does not achieve its objectives, are a direct consequence of a view of the common fisheries policy in which management decisions are dissociated from their application and control, and in which the fishing communities and authorities' responsibilities have been eroded by an exclusive European competence that has nevertheless not been exercised by the party that advocated it.
Having said that, the recovery plan may be revised in 2010 on the basis of new scientific advice or weaknesses detected in its implementation.
In addition, in our discussions in the Council, we have managed to introduce enhanced control measures to allow for better compliance.
The result will be a yearly deduction of 1 480 tonnes for the period 2009-2011.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) The Braghetto report contains much for us to think about as regards the implementation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan.
