In addition, we call on the Commission, when formulating its proposals for a new fleet policy, to deal specifically with the need for a balance between the fishing capacities and/or fishing efforts of each Member State's fleet segment and the catch possibilities available to it.
Last week, Commissioner Fischler told the Committee on Fisheries that the European Union's fishing vessels are about 40% over capacity, a figure that is not only alarming but also underlines all the more the urgent need for something to be done about this.
Furthermore it is a politically very timely report within the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy which is taking place and at a time when there seemed to be proposals which questioned or removed this aid for the renewal or modernisation of the fleet.
Therefore, I ask you to take note of this, if Parliament takes this approach.
In summary, we are dealing with a clear and concise report which I hope will reflect the approach of the Committee on Fisheries and this Parliament as a whole to the reform of the common fisheries policy which is getting closer, by opting - in accordance with our wishes - for the maintenance of a renewed, and therefore competitive, fisheries sector and not, Mr Fischler, for its dismantling.
As for the data that the report is based on, we should remember that Member States have until the end of 2003 to report new figures and bear in mind that we still do not know how many ships are in the EU fleet.
I welcome Mr Kindermann highlighting this.
Mr President, I thank the rapporteur for his work in this area.
Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with heartfelt thanks to you, Mr Kindermann, for your excellent report.
Before dealing with the amendments that are being discussed today, I would like to say two things about the current state of fisheries policy and about the preparations for the reform, all the more as these have been mentioned by several speakers today.
As, then, I seek not only proposals for reform, but reform itself in the sense of a resolution in favour of reform, I go along with our taking this extra time to obtain these supplementary items of information and put us in a position to defend our position against all comers.
This is, by the way, not just about rotation, but also about other objectives.
I agree with your sixth and tenth points.
To that I commit myself, but it must not lead to an increase in fishing effort.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that only a miracle would allow my group and myself to vote in favour of the report with my name on it, since some of the amendments introduced in committee and others which are being presented again in this House make it very different from my initial ideas.
My group and I believe that the persons included in the scope must be, as proposed by the Commission in its original text, those refugees defined in Article 1 of the Geneva Convention, leaving to the Member States the possibility that they may, by extension, be given other forms of protection.
With regard to schooling for minors, I believe that it should not go beyond what the Member States can guarantee for their own citizens.
Despite all of this, I would like to end, Mr President, by expressing my satisfaction at the references that appear in my report, thanks also to the opinion issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs, to the effect that the terrorist activity of asylum seekers should be a cause for a restriction of their right to acceptance.
Approximately 150 million people live outside the country in which they were born and the application of human rights standards is inadequate in many situations.
From the point of view of international law, following the First World War a series of international conventions were adopted with a view to regulating this area, based on what we might call principles of the right to individual protection in the face of political persecution of a specifically European nature.
I will repeat that, from the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal represents enormous progress, but the Commission and the other European institutions will probably have to find a way to regulate the whole problem of asylum given the new dimension created by the enormous economic phenomenon of international migration linked perhaps to the process of international globalisation.
The proposal for harmonisation is, of course, heading in the right direction, since it is seeking to halt the downward spiral in the conditions in which asylum applicants are received in Europe.
We reject the idea of immediate access to the labour market for applicants for asylum and all their accompanying family members, which goes hand in hand with total freedom of movement right across the European Union.
We reject the proposal for immediate access to vocational training, and, above all, we repudiate their desire to do away with sanctions when the Member States' security is threatened, when applicants for asylum 'go underground', claim social security benefits to which they are not entitled or indulge in violent behaviour.
We do not want more Le Pens in Europe.
It is very rare for a Member of Parliament to oppose a positive acquis communautaire, as it was affirmed at Tampere that there was a need for common rules in the area of asylum procedures.
I am also surprised that, despite the adoption, in 2001, of an initial resolution which aimed to provide asylum applicants with a decent standard of living and to enforce respect for human rights, our rapporteur has attempted to restrict these rights, which flies in the very face of fundamental rights which are also an acquis communautaire.
No, Mr Hernández Mollar, Europe's problem is that of unemployment and exclusion, not that of third-country nationals and asylum applicants.
But how can you, at the same time, fail to mention to the House that those who exploit these victims are, in fact, those who make them work; those who exploit them are, in fact, the bosses who employ them to moonlight; those who exploit them are, in fact, the very landlords that provide their slum housing.
We must have the courage, therefore, to blame the traffickers in human beings, those who exploit them, and not the immigrants themselves.
The Tampere conclusions stipulate that a European system of asylum must be established and must include, in the short term, minimum common standards for the reception for asylum applicants.
The intention is to limit the secondary movements of asylum applicants that are prompted by the differences between the reception conditions provided by the various Member States, thereby ensuring that asylum applicants enjoy a comparable standard of living in all the Member States and that there is a fair spread of efforts between the Member States of the Union.
This is why it is right, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to send a message to the benches on the left of Parliament: those who go too far in the field of asylum, as in other areas, become the greatest ally of the forms of extremism they claim to want to combat, for they ultimately stimulate it. (Applause from the right and from the centre) Madam President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for the way he has led this report.
Proof of this is the fact that it was adopted in committee by 25 votes to 18, but above all the fact that a good 111 amendments were made to it.
It was pointed out that, after the Montpellier talks in May 2000, a programme should be launched - and the Commission has already put forward a proposal - financed by MEDA, a programme of practical actions in the field of immigration.
These are amendments deleting every reference to asylum procedures, and also amendments aimed against reception conditions that differentiate in accordance with the asylum procedures applicable in each case.
These three will shortly be resubmitted by the Commission and are intended - as the Tampere conclusions envisaged - to complete the first stage in the development of the common European asylum system.
Madam President, in view of the information the Commissioner has been kind enough to give us - in which he confirms that the Council is actually today, even before the vote on our report, discussing and probably adopting a different version from the one it communicated to us for consultation - I would like to ask him to deal with this situation.
This is not an isolated case: in relation to all the issues we are discussing, which are fundamental and very sensitive, relating to justice and internal affairs, in accordance with the procedures adopted in Amsterdam - in other words, we are still within the five-year-period during which Parliament only plays a consultative role - in addition to having little capacity for intervention, the little power we do have is constantly being undermined by attitudes of dubious interinstitutional loyalty on the part of the Council.
I would request, Madam President, that the Presidency of this House deal with this situation before the Council and inform it of our displeasure.
Thank you, Mrs Terrón i Cusí.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the joint debate on: the Commission statement on the international conference on financing for development in Monterrey; the report (A5-0075/2002) by Mr Mantovani, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the Commission Communication concerning the proposal for a Council decision on the adoption of the position of the Community within the ACP-EC Council of Ministers regarding the settlement of all ACP HIPC LDCs' special loans remaining after full application of HIPC debt alleviation mechanisms [COM(2001) 210 - C5-0394/2001 - 2001/2158(COS)].
The conference was also innovative in form in the sense that the Final Document - known as the Monterrey Consensus - had already been agreed on in New York in January.
The Development Council of 8 November last year took an initial step in that direction by entrusting the Commission with the task of examining these issues more closely.
This process then led to the Barcelona European Council resolution in which the Member States agreed for the first time to consult with each other on their development budgets and above all to give the Commission a coordinating role.
In addition, the global economic slowdown is deepening as a result of the events of September 11 2001, exacerbating the already severe problems of these communities.
Here are some figures: the debt of the HIPCs increased from USD 147 billion in 1989 to USD 214 billion in 2001; at present, 41 of the world's poorest countries are in a situation of bankruptcy and 300 out of every 600 HIPC citizens survive on less than a dollar per day.
Moreover, such a short time period gives the highly indebted countries little time to develop multisectoral strategies for combating poverty and forces local governments to spend money and funds on reaching the completion point rather than on implementing a sustainable programme and a credible plan for combating poverty.
Evidence of this is, in fact, the Union's commitment to providing a further USD 20 billion dollars of aid by 2006 and USD 7 billion dollars after 2006.
Madam President, I was one of the five Members of Parliament who went to Monterrey and I want to put it on record that what Mr.
Nielson did before the Monterrey Conference was extremely good.
He persuaded the 15 Member States of the European Union to make a commitment that by 2006 their contribution for development finance will be 0.33% of GDP.
This is a very small sum when you think that the United States has given its military establishment USD 100 billion since September last year, and that is why President Bush promised a further USD 5 billion in development finance by 2006.
On the one hand, to have a consensus document, drawn up previously in January in New York, has the positive effect of allowing the participants to dedicate their time to meetings and achieve very significant bilateral commitments, to participate in round tables.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate the Commission on having persuaded the Member States at the Barcelona Summit to commit to the target for common development cooperation finance for the first time in history.
It is true that the Conference produced some small steps forward, especially if we consider the current situation of development funding and if we take account of the very limited prospects that had already been outlined before the Conference.
Amongst these steps, I include, of course, the proposals by the European Union to increase its development aid by USD 20 billion by 2006 and even the annual increase of USD 5 billion that the United States has proposed.
I am also taking account of the fact that the European Union has set, for the first time and in a way that is binding on the Member States, the precise and focussed objective of achieving 0.39% of GDP by 2006 as the Community average and as an interim stage for achieving the objective of 0.7%.
We must not forget that Europe has a responsibility to provide essential support to the poorest countries of the developing world through a long-term undertaking to help these countries and support them during a process of far-reaching change and economic and social development, in addition to cancelling the debt.
Madam President, I welcome the Commission's decision to cancel the debts linked to special loans but, for the situation in the poor countries to improve, I am afraid that it is not enough for the international financial institutions to adopt initiatives to reduce the debt to what is considered a sustainable level.
They must have the courage genuinely to cancel the debt completely in order to release resources and make economic and social growth possible in those countries, and debt cancellation must on no account be taken as an excuse to reduce development aid.
We must quite simply cancel the debts of highly indebted poor countries and put in place an arbitration procedure for intermediary countries that are in crisis, such as Argentina.
Most of these debts are illegitimate, as they were arranged by corrupt, even dictatorial governments, and have, in fact, never been used to benefit the population.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was not in Monterrey, but I often travel in the ACP countries in Africa, where it is forcefully brought home to visitors how poor countries groan under the burden of debt.
No legal instrument is available to us to actually demand these amounts at law; instead, the only thing we can do when individual Member States fail to honour this obligation is together - the Commission and you in Parliament - to remind those Member States of how important it is that they should do so.
The new programme can therefore enter into force in 2003, because we worked swiftly to give our opinion on the report, and we hope that our co-legislator, the Council, will do the same, that it will not repeat its poor performance on the regulation concerning structural business statistics on which Parliament adopted its position at first reading in June 2001.
Mr President, this document is on the subject of the European Union Budget: it refers to a considerable sum of money that we did not manage to spend in 2001 and which will therefore be carried over to 2002 for use in the various activities of the European Union.
It is also understood that, in May 2002, the European Commission will present the definitive balance from 2001 in yet another SAB; the total amount of appropriations to provide for it could therefore be as much as EUR 18 billion.
That would entail very high expenditure for the Member States in anticipation of 2003 and 2004 when the budgeting requirements will increase prior to enlargement. - (NL) My party, the Dutch Socialist Party, champions a high level of care for man and the environment, and is prepared to accept a high tax burden for this.
Mr President, our group was extremely pleased at the result of the vote this morning.
We now have a much more positive view on reception conditions, in particular, issues such as more rapid and widespread access to education and vocational training, not just education for children.
Mr President, I fully agree with what Mrs Lambert has just said.
Is it a violation of human rights to allow an elderly, sick, retired person to live on a mere EUR 500 per month?
Is it a violation of human rights, Mr President, that those - few remaining - war veterans who fought in the Second World War should receive as little as EUR 100 per month?
He rightly expands on removing the breeding ground for terrorism and states that the fight against terrorism should not adversely affect human rights.
The British Conservative delegation is strongly supportive of Human Rights, properly defined, but abstained on the Van Hecke Annual Report on human rights in the world in 2001 because: it makes no mention of the need for good governance, nor of the fact that corrupt governments in failed states are often the prime source of human rights abuse; while we strongly support a ban on the horrendous exploitation and abuse of children as child soldiers in countries such as Uganda and Sierra Leone we cannot support a ban on the recruitment of soldiers under 18 in our own countries; we cannot accept the incorrect interpretations of the Geneva Convention or the excessive criticism of US actions in its handling of prisoners at Guantanamo when rights of all those held in custody will be respected; many of our members support the death penalty, moreover decisions on this matter should be a national responsibility; we do not share the enthusiasm for an International Criminal Court which might so easily become a political instrument and whose jurisdiction over real human rights abusers such as terrorists is unclear.
We often say, Mr President, that we want to promote human rights in third countries.
Indeed, there are many women pensioners who receive a pension which is an eighth of the size of their husband's pension, of a man's pension, for there is a particular law of the Italian Republic which lays down that if a woman has worked for fewer years than her husband she is to receive a pension which is much, much lower than EUR 100 per month and, indeed, is very often no greater than EUR 25 per month.
That is why our report on the report from the Commission does indeed have a purpose.
As you would expect, I voted in favour of this report, despite the fact that I would have preferred to have some of my amendments approved by the rapporteur and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, in order to set the record straight.
It must be stated, however, that all Member States - and not just some of them - will have to contribute to achieving this objective.
Portugal, as everyone knows, has already exceeded the planned reduction by more than 40%, which is also regrettable, since there are countries that have not only failed to achieve reductions but have even increased their fishing capacity.
