Commissioner, the budget for basic healthcare has not increased even proportionately since 2000 in the framework of the whole package of official development aid.
I should therefore like to find out from you in what way the Commission would like to ensure that in the framework of the 10th EDF, the investments in health will be increased.
This is more than necessary if we want to be in with a chance of achieving the Millennium Goals by 2015, because, Commissioner, basic healthcare deserves sustainable investments in the long term.
The debate on this oral question gives us an opportunity to discuss our health support to Africa with you, the European Parliament.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for that response.
But we have to look at those things because you cannot have health without health services, without health workers and without health education.
I should therefore like to congratulate the Committee on Development and also Mrs Van Lancker, who have made sure that this debate is being held here today and that tomorrow, we will be adopting a resolution which gives a detailed account of what has gone wrong.
With regard to AIDS prevalence, 34% of the population is affected in Swaziland, 23% in Lesotho and 14% in Malawi.
Child mortality in Swaziland was 78/1000 in 1997, compared to 86/1000 now.
I therefore hope, Commissioner, that the Commission will indeed succeed in answering the questions by 10 April, which I, as rapporteur of the Committee on Budgetary Control, managed to have included in this resolution, so that we can incorporate the answers in the discharge procedure that is due at the end of April. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, anyone visiting sub-Saharan Africa can easily see, in most countries, the enormous weakness in their health systems and the extremely negative impact that this weakness has on the lives and health of the people who should be helped by these services.
European financial support can be crucial in this respect and we must always keep in mind that cooperation in the area of health is truly strategic and directly involves not just one of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) but many of them.
The Court of Auditors found, and I quote, that 'EC funding to the health sector has not increased since 2000 as a proportion of its total development assistance despite the Commission's MDG commitments and the health crisis in sub-Saharan Africa'.
That is why, Commissioner, it is vital that we change the numbers in our health cooperation. (FR) Madam President, I did not really want to speak on this report, but just to add a point that is particularly close to my heart and which I have raised on several occasions at the ACP meetings.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, not only have I listened carefully to what has been said tonight, and not only have I paid attention to what was said in the report by the Court of Auditors, but also, as I said before, I have just come back from a visit to Côte d'Ivoire and Liberia and have seen with my own eyes what the needs of these countries are in the field of health.
Those needs are immense, and I cannot but agree with you that we have to intensify our efforts in offering our help, in the field of health, in the poor countries of Africa.
