President-in-Office. - (SL) I am very pleased that today the European Parliament is going to discuss the situation in Kenya and also debate the proposed resolution on the current situation there.
The elections in Kenya, as we know, took place on 27 December.
As we know, after the results were published, violence broke out in the capitol Nairobi and other parts of Kenya.
The European Union condemned the violence in Kenya.
The European Union saluted the mediation by President Kufuor of Ghana, who is presiding over the African Union.
This was encouraging in the sense that certain democratic rules have still been observed in the country and that the opposition still has a voice.
I should also tell you regarding this that I had no trouble getting in direct, personal contact with Mr Odinga.
The post-election violence, which has caused the deaths of more than 600 people and the displacement of more than 250 000, has obviously highlighted the frustration and anger felt by the Kenyan people about the profound problems of socioeconomic inequality and corruption undermining Kenyan society, with the risk of confrontation on ethnic lines.
But these elections have also highlighted the democratic aspirations of the Kenyan people.
They call upon President Kibaki and Raila Odinga to cooperate fully with the aim of finding a political settlement.
We will be monitoring the situation closely and will remain in constant contact with the African mediators.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, as has already been said, Kenya has been an important example of democracy and stability in the region since 2002.
In recent years, the country has made great political and economic strides.
Nevertheless, these alarming outbursts of violence have occurred, and there is now a humanitarian crisis that has already left hundreds dead and more than 250 000 refugees.
This is that, one day after the elections - that is, at a time when the outcome had been decided and, as the Commissioner has said, irregularities had already abounded - the European Commission transferred more than 40 million euros to the government in budget aid.
In view of all this, in my opinion it makes perfect sense, as paragraph 11 of the joint motion for a resolution of Parliament states, to demand that new elections be called if it is impossible for an independent institution to organise a clean, transparent and credible recount of the votes cast in the 27 December elections.
I believe the work of the monitoring mission has therefore established a basis for a joint effort in which the European Union, Africa and the United States all pull together in order to reach a solution to the crisis in Kenya.
I would like to quote something in English from the Kenyan election observers, who write as follows: 'In our view, considering the entire electoral process, the 2007 general elections were credible in as far as the voting and counting process is concerned.
The electoral process lost credibility towards the end with regard to the tallying and announcement of presidential results.' That statement comes from the national Kenyan observers, who stationed between 16 000 and 20 000 people there.
On 1 January 2008 more than 3 000 people were taking refuge in the parish of Langas.
On 2 January this year the Catholic Missionary Service News Agency, MISNA, reported that between 7 000 and 10 000 people were taking refuge in the cathedral in Langas.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I think that in view of the current situation, the European Union should make an effort to assert its credibility as regards the observation missions it sends to these countries.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly all agreed that the events in Kenya are tragic and that there must categorically be an end to today's continuing violence.
It is true that there are rabble-rousers in Kenya trying to invoke hatred between ethnic groups in order to gain power.
The problem primarily is that it has not been possible to allow broad sections of the Kenyan population to have a share in the Kenyan economic boom and that violence is able to spread on this basis.
I specifically welcome the fact, Commissioner Michel, that the EU is clearly on the side of Kofi Annan and other mediators from the African Union in helping to resolve these processes in Kenya and with African politicians. - (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to commend the high level of activity among the citizens of Kenya on election day.
The European Union must support the mission led by the African Union and Kofi Annan to mediate between the President and the opposition, in order to stop the violence and find a solution to the political crisis.
From this viewpoint, the European Commission's decision, one day after the elections, to transfer 40 million euros of budget support to the Kenyan government without taking into account the criticisms of European Union observers regarding the conduct of the elections, is questionable.
I am very encouraged that Commissioner Michel intimated in our committee on Monday that budget support would be reviewed immediately.
In my view we need to be much clearer about the need to place aid conditionality on good governance, as is clearly stated under the Cotonou Partnership Agreements, and we have not done that.
The people in Kenya need our help, whether they support Kibaki or Odinga.
The solution can only come from strong external pressure.
For too long we have closed our eyes to what was going on in Kenya.
I doubt whether a solution can be found without new elections.
But, ideally, a solution should now be found through dialogue in Kenya, preferably supported by the African Union.
Mr President, as someone who has visited Kenya previously and in particular the slum areas in Nairobi, I am familiar with the corruption that was in place even prior to this election.
I condemn the tragic loss of up to 600 lives, and the critical humanitarian situation which has ensued after the 27 December elections in Kenya.
The EU election observation mission concluded that the lack of transparency and adequate security procedures severely undermined the credibility of the presidential election results.
One extra question: I assume that arrangements are already in place in the current budget support system for support to be suspended in such a situation as that which prevailed in Kenya after the elections? (NL) Mr President, we all agree that what has clearly gone wrong in Kenya is the presidential election procedure.
I agree with Commissioner Michel that yesterday's developments in the Kenyan Parliament are encouraging: the speaker has been elected - the parties and the opposition have been sufficiently powerful to push through the elections for the new speaker.
I would like to have a clear answer to this question. - (PL) Mr President, the example of Kenya shows what a breakdown in democratic standards can lead to, and how important it is for elections to be free, transparent, honest and fair.
Sadly that has changed in the last two weeks and we have seen over 600 people killed and 250 000 people have been displaced.
Unfortunately, again, that violence is ethnic in nature.
The question now is, what can the international community and ourselves do to bring political stability back to Kenya before the situation deteriorates further?
Mrs Martens emphasised the need for an African solution to African problems.
That is why, technically, the payment was made on 28 December.
I understand the upset this is causing, but just to remind you, it was only from the evening of Friday 28 and Saturday 29 December that the irregularities started to appear, when the transmission of the results from the last 49 constituencies, out of a total of 210, were subject to abnormal delays and, as you know, it was only on Monday 1 January, on the basis of the weekend's events, that the EU election observation mission reported in its preliminary analysis that the elections had not met international standards.
Secondly, I would like to mention - because it is important from the point of view of the argument - that I agree with many of the things that have been said, but that there are also things I do not agree with at all.
I would just like to draw attention to the fact that before we suddenly suspend budget support we should first check that the proposal, made by Mrs Kinnock and others, to convert budget support into project support, is feasible quickly, or as quickly as budget support allows, so as not to put the people in an even more catastrophic situation of deprivation.
That brings me to two thoughts on budget support.
We will fully support the African mediation and, of course, as the Council said, the Commission is available for a mediation mission.
I made contact with Kofi Annan and had a long discussion with him.
The vote will take place on Thursday 17 January 2008.
in writing. - As a former European Parliament election observer for Kenya, I am deeply concerned by the turn of events following the election in December.
The fact that Kenya has for years been seen as the most stable country in that part of the African continent makes developments doubly worrying.
