Women are still in a disadvantaged position unfortunately which, apart from anything else, manifests itself overtly in their lack of access to roles in which political or economic decisions are taken.
As the questioners are not present, Questions 22 and 23 lapse.
This point was emphasised in the September 2008 Communication entitled 'Multilingualism: an asset for Europe and a shared commitment', where it is stated that efforts are still required to increase the number of languages being taught, particularly with regard to choosing the second foreign language, while taking account of local conditions.
The EU's programmes for education, training and young people support the learning of all the languages spoken in the European Union, including those spoken by minorities, by also supporting young people travelling abroad in order to learn these languages.
The total cost of this project is EUR 791 000.
There is also a campaign in Member States as part of this initiative to encourage the parents of children aged between 2 and 6 to motivate their children to learn foreign languages.
This situation is not only reflected in the way in which we finance different projects, but it is also very clearly highlighted in the strategy the European Commission adopted in 2008.
On the subject of the Erasmus Programme, what started around 20 years ago as a programme that was not viewed in a very positive light by various agencies in the EU is currently one of the most successful programmes in the European Union.
During the frequent visits that I have made, not only to the capitals of Member States but also to very many regions in the European Union, I have been able to witness the extremely positive impact of this programme.
A case currently investigated by OLAF and closed in the last quarter of 2003, involving external aid, is in judicial follow-up in Germany.
Based on the outcome of this evaluation, OLAF will decide if a case needs to be opened in this matter.
Finally, fourthly, the Spanish Supreme Court issued a ruling on 4 November 2008 in a case involving Structural Funds and in which Siemens was originally implicated.
However, it should also be noted that in this instance, Siemens was acquitted in the case in the first ruling of the Criminal Court of Madrid issued on 22 June 2006.
As with all these kinds of cases, the general point is that OLAF is not a law enforcement agency.
Again, if you have any information concerning the misuse of money in cofinanced projects, we would be very happy - as would DG REGIO and other departments - to receive such information.
This is again a matter where Member States act, but where cooperation between Member States is vital and also where our service, OLAF, is very active and plays an important role in fighting international cigarette smuggling.
OLAF's work demonstrates that this cooperation should be enforced, but I must also say that there have been two very important events during the five-year tenure of this Commission in which OLAF has been extremely instrumental.
These were very important achievements, and all Member States are signatories to the latest Japan Tobacco agreement.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I recently visited a country outside the European Union where smoking is not prohibited, and I really noticed how big a difference there is in the European Union where you cannot smell the odour of cigarettes in public places at least.
As regards the fight against cigarette smuggling, we must use all our law enforcement agencies.
We in Europe have quite a substantial excise tax on tobacco products, but as I know from the experience of dealing with the Philip Morris agreement and the Japan Tobacco agreement, this involves largely the same corporations, which are our main producers of tobacco.
As the questioner is not present, Question No 27 lapses.
Member of the Commission. - Thank you for that question because it is very relevant these days.
As you know, the Bologna Process is not a Commission initiative, but an intergovernmental process of 46 European countries.
Regarding the European higher education area, there is consensus among the participating countries that, although a lot has been achieved up to now and since 1999, the project will not come to an end in 2010 but will continue at least until 2020.
My question was more in relation to the immediate future and the not so immediate future, because the economic crisis that we are suffering means that there is an entire series of sectors, some mature sectors, that are not going to generate new jobs.
Member of the Commission. - I think that again you have pointed to a very important problem.
We already discussed this morning that we now have 78 million people in the European Union with basic or lower skills, and it is very clear that, by the deadline which we have set for ourselves of 2020, we will definitely not have the same number of jobs for those people with basic or lower skills.
Member of the Commission. - You started your question with a very clear analysis that there is a division of labour and division of competences, but it is very clear that the Commission is strongly behind all efforts to increase the proportion of the population with the highest possible level of education.
In February 2009, some 17.5% of Europeans under the age of 25 did not have a job, with this being more than twice the overall unemployment rate for the EU, which stood at 7.9% for the same period.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I already used some of the arguments in my previous answer, but it is clear that this is a very important area and I will try to highlight some other additional information in responding to this question.
As you know, in accordance with Articles 149 and 150 of the EC Treaty, responsibility for the content and organisation of education and training systems rests with the Member States.
The 2006 recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning defines the key competences young people should develop during their initial education and training to a level that equips them for adult life and which would allow them to develop very good job skills for the future.
We should also look at the aforementioned strategic framework for European cooperation in education and training ('ET 2020') from this perspective.
This programme has been very successful since the start, as in its first year of operation alone, over 20 000 students carried out a work placement abroad and over 15 000 enterprises have participated in this effort.
In its Communication 'A shared commitment for employment' of June 2009, the Commission has encouraged Member States and social partners to ensure that young people, despite the difficult economic environment, have access to quality education and training and, in particular, to high-quality apprenticeships and traineeships. (RO) There is a risk due to the economic crisis that it will be harder for young people to find a job, that they will have to accept a job that is beneath their level of qualifications or that they will be forced to spend longer periods in unemployment.
Member of the Commission. - You are absolutely right that, under the current circumstances, the Commission and the Member States must be very creative in improving conditions for young people to enable them either to keep their jobs or, if they have lost them, to retrain them and better prepare them for the next opportunity, the next possible employment.
The Commission is working very closely with the Member States and experts, and in the current situation, they are focusing on three areas: how to use this period to ensure that they achieve the right basic skills and key competences, how to make high-quality education more equitable and how to ensure the quality of teaching and learning in schools.
We believe that this study should contribute to an increased understanding of volunteering in sports, in both societal and economic terms, as a basis for responding to the political demand to promote voluntary activities in sport and its underlying structure in an EU context.
It is estimated that there are 22 million overweight children in the European Union, of which 5.1 million are considered obese.
Volunteering is free in the sense that it is freely given, but that is not a good reason for the European Commission not to invest in the 100 million volunteers across the EU.
Member of the Commission. - I was just consulting my chef de cabinet to give you as precise an answer as possible.
As far as my information goes, EUR 8 million was allocated for the whole Year of Volunteering.
Member of the Commission. - This question is still related to a certain extent to my previous answer as to how we can combine better dietary practices, how we can promote a healthier lifestyle, and how we can bring European value added to the national policies in these areas.
The Commission has created a High Level Group on Nutrition and Physical Activity where officials from all Member States can exchange policy ideas and best practices and gain an overview of all government policies in this area.
This is why I wanted to link the very finest of sport and what sportsmen and women do to get to the condition they are in, while also encouraging those at lesser levels of sport to understand that taking a quick drink is not going to make you the best sportsperson in the world.
The theatre has always faced financial difficulties because the Italian authorities do not provide regular funding.
Operating grants for a single cultural institution are only possible if the activities are carried out at European level in at least seven countries participating in the cultural programme.
Therefore, I think the European Parliament is very well placed to debate this issue, as you highlighted in your supplementary question.
