Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 10 April 2003.
As a co-founder and honorary president of Médecins du Monde, this exceptional physician always fought to uphold and represent the values of humanism.
I have been notified by the appropriate authorities in the accession States of the names of 159 observers appointed to the European Parliament.
I should like, on behalf of Parliament, to offer a very warm word of welcome to all our observers here today.
For these reasons, Mr President, and for others relating to the breach of provisions of internal French law, specifically the French penal code, and to the application of older texts, specifically the 1977 act, which, in my opinion, is completely inapplicable in this case since it relates to a period when Members of the European Parliament were not elected by direct universal suffrage but were members of national parliaments, I believe that this complex issue should have been, and still ought to be, referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which is the only committee currently competent in matters of verification of credentials, pursuant to Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure.
Since the Ugandan army left the region, the MONUC is on the scene, but its combat forces number scarcely 625 troops as against 25 000 combatants.
Mr President, I want to draw attention to the fact that there are 25 000 people in the European Union dying every year from a disease which, if it is caught in time, is largely curable.
I would, for all these reasons, ask you, on behalf of this Assembly, to convey to Colombia's legitimate authorities our solidarity with the victims' families and our active commitment to the cause of peace in that country.
Mr President, I commend you for recently taking up the question of Air France services to Strasbourg from London, as reflected in today's Financial Times.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to speak on the subject of Cuba.
I would ask you to remember with a minute's silence all those people who died in the war against Fascism, especially the soldiers of the Red Army and hence all those who made today's Europe possible in the first place.
Mr President, this morning the press tells us that you complained that you had to get up at 4 a.m.
I would like to know on behalf of my colleagues who have just taken the memorial last flight from London Gatwick to Strasbourg what you are doing about this situation?
Baroness Ludford has already raised this matter.
I should like to remind the House that a debate on this issue is scheduled for tomorrow and will perhaps afford an opportunity for the House and for colleagues to make that point.
Mr President, a fortnight ago our only national institution, Udalbitza, was banned and eight of its leaders imprisoned.
I would take the liberty of reading out a paragraph from a document that I shall forward to the Members of this Parliament, that has been signed by a range of European intellectuals and that concludes with words to the effect that, even if there is a frequent temptation to ignore what is happening, European citizens are asked, on 25 May - the date of the Spanish local elections - generally to declare their mood of anger in memory of the victims who have died for freedom in the Basque Country and in honour of those who, this very day, defend it with a courage that, in the not too distant future, will stir Europe.
This document has been signed by, amongst others, Nadine Gordimer, Günter Grass, Bernard-Henri Lévy, Paul Preston, Mario Vargas Llosa and our fellow MEP, Mr Vattimo.
As I know, Mr President, that you support this policy, I should like you to take an initiative and bring this to the attention of your counterparts in the parliaments of these countries.
However, this factory increased its profits by 83% in 2002, compared with 2001, and received a fat subsidy from the Greek Government.
The decision by this multinational comes on top of similar decisions by other multinationals, which have closed down production units in Greece in order to locate to countries with much lower wage costs and conditions in general which allow for more intensive exploitation of the workers.
As everyone in this House knows, relations between India and Pakistan have been very difficult over the last few months, and since both countries are nuclear powers it is very important for this dialogue to be successful.
I would reiterate the points made by James Elles as regards the Kashmiri people being involved in this dialogue at the earliest possible convenience and as regards ensuring that the European Union continues to offer its services as an honest broker, as agreed under the common foreign and security policy - if, that is, both India and Pakistan feel it necessary to take advantage of that offer.
Mr President, since Parliament has, unfortunately, rejected our proposal to include an item on Guinea-Bissau in the topical and urgent debate, I wish to take this opportunity simply to draw my fellow Members' attention to the deterioration of the situation in that country, which is undergoing an almost total breakdown, and to call on Parliament - which I know has been assessing the situation with regard to the elections planned for 6 July - to continue closely to follow these elections and send a mission of observers.
This is only right, but the fact passes unnoticed in the Union, especially in my country, and I think that something should be done about this.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to return to the subject of Columbia.
In this context, and in order to show that we are not a fickle Parliament but that we are endeavouring to be faithful to our democratic commitments and to the protection of individuals throughout the world, would it be possible to make representations to the government, reminding it that a hard line cannot be the general rule where people's lives are at stake and there are prices to be paid, and that it is therefore appropriate in this case first and foremost to respect the demands of the families, who do not want the government to take a hard line so that it can give a display of its power some time in the future.
We have also always said, however, that the conflict in Chechnya must be solved peacefully.
As rapporteur for the Intelligent Energy for Europe Programme, I would like to thank all three institutions for their cooperation in enabling us to reach successfully a second reading: the European Commission, of course, for coming forward with the proposals, the Council of Ministers and the three presidencies involved in this - the Spanish, Danish and above all the Greek presidencies - and especially the Members of the European Parliament and the staff of the European Parliament.
The title of this programme is self-explanatory.
We currently do some of those things, which makes the current programme even more topical and even more useful.
It is actually a modest programme, with EUR 200 million allocated for four years, which is frankly still inadequate.
I hope that further funding will be made available during the programme, in particular when new Member States join.
The programme has four objectives, all of which are indeed intelligent: the promotion of renewable energy sources, of energy efficiency, of clean transport and of all these three things in developing countries.
Parliament's amendments to the Council of Ministers' common position encompass the budget - we insisted on an increase to EUR 200 million with a review clause - and numerous clarifications.
The Commission has done well to come forward with this programme.
Over 2 billion people in the world have no access to electricity.
I hope that the Commissioner will undertake a review of the timescale for preparing legislation to prevent problems of this sort, which I am sure are as disappointing to her as they are to us.
The present proposal for a European Parliament and Council Decision relates to a multi-annual action programme in the energy sector, to cover the period 2003-2006, and hence the urgency of concluding this debate.
We have four specific fields: the rational use of energy, the management of demand, which previously fell within the SAVE programme; new and renewable energy sources, previously known as ALTENER; transport aspects relating to energy: STEER; and the promotion at international level of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, known as COOPENER.
Before discussing the amendments, I would like to make a brief comment on an issue which I have noted causes concern in Parliament: the coordination of the programme and its relationship with other Community policies with an energy dimension, particularly in the field covered by the programme.
I have committed myself fully to increasing and improving these interrelationships with regard to the management of our programme.
To this end, Mrs McNally, I therefore propose to establish an interservices group, consisting of all those Commission services whose policies and programmes relate to the present programme.
With regard to the amendments presented by the European Parliament, I am pleased to note that, following the recent discussions with the Council, a compromise has been reached with regard to the amendments which were still awaiting agreement.
So did we, but I believe 200 million is a significant sum, which, over four years, represents a very considerable increase in the budgets when compared to what we have been using in the past.
I trust that you will approve the vote recommended by the rapporteur and that a speedy approval of the programme will allow it to be launched without wasting the funds corresponding to 2003; and that there will be a global approval at the end of the year, since we will have made sufficient progress in this regard, and that they will therefore be able to be used, including the funds corresponding to 2003.
The rapporteur has already covered the main issues of substance, with all of which my group and I entirely agree.
As many colleagues know, we are facing a glut of legislation in the energy field today, this week and next week, ranging from combined heat and power through to trans-European networks and to the all-important electricity and gas liberalisation package.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity - at first reading - to express my views on this important subject and I am therefore pleased to be able to speak again this evening.
To turn to the content now, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, I would point out that the 'Intelligent Energy for Europe' programme, covering the period 2003 to 2006, replaces a programme which expired on 31 December 2002.
In the end, after a number of tripartite meetings, the Council and Parliament succeeded in achieving a compromise of the sum of EUR 200 million, although the Council had been holding out for a sum of EUR 190 million.
As has been said, the sum will be divided between four specific programmes: energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy sources, energy aspects of transport, and the promotion of renewable energies and energy efficiency in the developing countries.
It is in many respects a public service which must be protected zealously in the interest of all citizens in all senses of the word.
As always, I can only register my disapproval.
The common objectives that have been set, for example regarding the use of renewable forms of energy, are so ambitious that achieving them depends crucially on the Member States.
We cannot leave it just to the ALTENER programme to achieve these goals.
It is being proposed that a new special Agency should be set up to coordinate cooperation in the energy sector.
I also want to invite you, as a thought for the future, to remember that the Community budget, set this year in anticipation of next year, will involve 0.99% of GDP, there being 25 Member States.
In addition to having just 0.99% of GDP, we shall perform the miracle of being 25 Member States, with 500 more officials.
The debate is closed.
The promotion of this technology can be seen as being consonant with the objectives - the Kyoto commitments - that we, and many other countries, have set ourselves.
My primary concern, when engaging in these discussions, when voting, and when tabling amendments, has been to shape a directive that will be applicable throughout Europe, at the same level, and with the same ground rules.
I saw it as important that there should be greater legal certainty within the European Union, and that the Member States should, on the basis of this directive - assuming that it enters into force after second reading and, perhaps, after a conciliation procedure - have legal certainty and be able to promote this technology.
Our discussions were lively, but also very fair, and we were very fair-minded in our dealings with each other.
Furthermore, the debates in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy have demonstrated how diverse the positions are, as have the meetings, hearings and seminars held in recent months in this Parliament, demonstrating the interest which this initiative has awoken in the different sectors of society.
I am happy to say that, in my opinion, the proposal for a Directive on the promotion of cogeneration, which we are discussing, conforms to the requirements and furthermore it provides a response at a time when we are talking about integration of the European energy market and in particular the electricity market.
No legal instrument resolves this problem and the directive creates the framework necessary to guarantee a stable environment for the initiatives to promote cogeneration.
They can also facilitate new investment, guarantee more equitable conditions and eliminate administrative and other types of obstacles, but all within an integrated European market.
Furthermore, as a result of the future directive, energy and cogeneration producers will be in a position to request a guarantee of origin which demonstrates that the electricity sold to the network is genuinely produced by means of high-efficiency cogeneration, from cogeneration which results in global energy savings.
The definitions of cogeneration, and in particular high-efficiency cogeneration, may appear very technical, but to adopt a common methodology is an important step forward, which offers the sector undeniable legal certainty with regard to efficiency requirements.
It offers the States an instrument for creating support programmes capable of promoting cogeneration and at the same time to prevent distortions in the internal energy market, and also distortions in the field of competition, in a more extensive manner.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have explained the Commission's objective in relation to this proposal, and I await the debate which is now going to take place.
As I said before, cogeneration based on heat demand will therefore allow us to optimise the situation in terms of greenhouse gases and balance the functioning of the electrical system.
The compromise amendments represent good progress in terms of reaching a final agreement and it is significant that the existence of different technologies throughout the length and breadth of the European Union has been recognised.
I would therefore congratulate the rapporteur once again, and my colleagues in the Industry Committee, on their excellent work, and particularly on not accepting the first proposal and fighting to reach agreements on a proposal which satisfies everybody.
At this point, I would like to thank those who are called lobbyists, who have done truly outstanding work, teaching us a great deal about the options available.
In future, of course, we should give closer attention to energy and to the infrastructure in the energy sector, for a secure energy supply and efficient energy should certainly be among the primary objectives of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no doubt that the promotion of electrical energy production by means of cogeneration is an objective which we should all share, and for various reasons.
We are therefore going to support the Commission's initiative, which deserves all our respect, and we congratulate the Commissioner on it.
Support for the promotion of cogeneration has been ratified by this Parliament in its Resolution of 25 September and we will therefore be acting coherently by supporting this initiative.
It was therefore very difficult to combine such different realities in a single proposal.
I believe that the efforts made by the rapporteur to encompass and include such differing realities in the text of the directive have been remarkable to say the least, and I would therefore like to congratulate him warmly.
Mr President, I am sure I speak on behalf of other colleagues when I say that this has been one of the most intriguing and perplexing issues I have ever had to follow.
I never knew, for instance, that something called the Protermo method could produce as much heat and fury as it did in the debate in our committee.
I would urge colleagues from other groups to refrain from supporting amendments which disturb this very delicately constructed compromise.
For that reason, in many of the amendments one feels there is concern regarding the equal treatment of small producers in a liberalised market dominated by the large producers.
The former is a synthetic market directive, whilst this directive on cogeneration is financial/technical.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we should regard this directive as a contribution to a coherent and holistic energy policy in Europe.
What this means is that it is concerned with better protection for the environment, with greater security of supply and also with coherence in the internal market in energy.
This definition is independent of climate zones.
There can be only one definition, and it must apply throughout Europe.
Annex III defines the energy efficiency of cogeneration plants.
In any case, Annex III has to build on Annex II.
I believe that what we all want this directive to do is to get cogeneration taken more seriously in future, and to get people investing in this technology, especially in Eastern Europe.
The three central points we have achieved, Mr President, by means of this long discussion, have been, firstly, to place primary energy saving at the heart of the Directive as an essential defining parameter; secondly, to calculate the percentage energy saving in relation to the electricity produced and not in relation to the total of heat plus electricity, in order to emphasise where the energy saving is achieved; and finally we have distinguished clearly between two situations: that of those installations which work permanently producing heat and electricity simultaneously and that of those which, because of the way they operate and the purposes they serve, produce electricity and heat simultaneously only for part of the year, and the rest of the year work exclusively in condensation mode.
I would draw your attention to Amendments Nos 75 and 81, which correspond to the agreement we reached after the meeting in committee and which our group considers to be essential: Amendment No 75, which removes the threshold of 80%, which no longer makes sense, and Amendment No 81, which clearly distinguishes between each type of installation.
If this is the case, Commissioner, you have a European energy policy in mind and, as long as you continue to develop it, this Parliament will support you, because it fulfils objectives which we all wish to achieve: increasing our competitiveness, guaranteeing the well-being of all Europeans and greater economic growth.
The amendments relating to micro-generation, renewable energy sources and district cooling are important in terms of technological development.
It is possible to store heat in all size categories for a day or a year, as opposed to what is stated in the Commission proposal and in certain committee opinions.
Financial support should not be restricted just to CHP technology based on a useful heat demand.
The report on cogeneration that we have here is enormously important in terms of a sustainable energy policy in Europe.
That, Mr Glante, is also the reason why we tabled both Amendment No 175 and Amendment No 176.
Amendment No 42 is essential.
It is essential that this harmonised reference value for determining primary energy savings by cogeneration is brought in as soon as possible, namely within two years.
Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca has already indicated how essential Amendments Nos 75, 76 and 81 are to us.
The Committee on the Environment agreed on that unanimously, after the vote had, indeed, been deferred twice by reason of the somewhat laborious discussion.
Whatever happens, we want to see the ambitious objective laid down that the proportion of the total electricity generated in the European Union by cogeneration plants should be doubled, rising from 9%, as it was in 1994, to 18% in 2012.
We need transparent rules on what can be promoted as a cogeneration plant, rules that must be applicable throughout the European Union.
In addition, cogeneration plants with an output of over 50 megawatts should also fall within the maximum aid envisaged by the EU.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and my colleagues on working together to achieve the compromise formula and definitions, which have covered a very complicated and technical set of issues.
They tell me they have supplied co-generation plant over the past 20 years, which has contributed to an estimated annual saving of 700 000 tonnes of carbon, which is a significant saving.
Colleagues have referred to the complexities that we have been addressing in committee and sometimes it has been a little obscure what the outcome would be.
Of the 85 amendments remaining, the great majority are acceptable either totally, partially or following some modification.
Nevertheless, there are 28 which we reject entirely.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
We should all be aware that this report came about, to a large extent, as a result of the aeroplanes flying into the Twin Towers in New York in September 2001.
It is an attempt, to some extent, to restore confidence in the insurance market in the European Union.
I have to say at the outset that this is not necessarily a major problem for what we would term the 'major airlines', that is, airlines such as Lufthansa, Air France, British Airways and the other big boys.
As I said, I tried to achieve a consensus with the compromise amendments that we came forward with in committee.
The US Government has been a very strong supporter of its industry, especially since 11 September, and continues to be so.
By sticking to the Montreal Convention and the ECAC figures I hope we have been able to find and bring forward a balanced report that will hopefully find a way forward.
It therefore became necessary to clarify the situation, particularly following the events of 11 September 2001.
As the rapporteur has quite rightly said, it is a question of restoring confidence and of providing the possibility of sufficient insurance cover, for small companies as well.
The Commission's objective is therefore to ensure that all aircraft flying to European destinations are always insured against various risks, including war and terrorism.
Finally, I would like to say to you that, following the introduction of special conditions which have been in operation for some time following 11 September (until we believed that the market had recovered sufficient capacity to cover all the risks at reasonable prices), the Commission has monitored the support measures and tariffs applied in the different States of the Union, which has given us firsthand and direct knowledge of the true situation of air insurance in the different countries of the Union.
The Commissioner made a reference and I think that her reference was clear.
Members have highlighted the reasons why this regulation is required in the aftermath of the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States, so I will not go any further on that point.
However, we also believe our committee has improved the text by bringing it closer to reality and by clarifying certain aspects of it.
I believe we have found a good compromise in the committee by lowering and changing the categories and by using more or less the categories of resolution ECAC/25-1.
Therefore we must make this distinction between third country and Community carriers or operators.
Nevertheless, I believe strongly in the compromise that our rapporteur has achieved and give it my wholehearted support.
Mr President, Commissioner, serious accidents in the recent past, and their aftermath, have shown us that the legislation on the liability of carriers in respect of third parties is not satisfactory.
To sum up, then, it was necessary for a good measure to be proposed, but I believe that, on this occasion too, without Parliament's astute contribution, the good end result we can adopt and endorse today might not have been achieved.
However, in this context I consider that my own stakeholders are my electorate.
It goes without saying that none of us here would expect airlines to be operating without the proper levels of insurance cover and there is no evidence to suggest that the airlines have ever done so.
Airlines have already endured an increase of 300% for their insurance premiums post September 11.
Comprehensive transit agreements have been in place worldwide for the last 60 years and it is therefore vital that any additional information required would have to be processed in a straightforward manner.
In conclusion, I would request that the Commission not only informs our committee of the results of the business impact assessment but also answers satisfactorily the two additional points I have raised on overflying and insurance cover before the second reading.
I must point out, however, ladies and gentlemen, that there are 10 which I cannot accept for the reasons I will now explain.
Amendments Nos 13 and 15, on the definition of short-term leasing, because they fall within the scope of other regulations which are not currently under review.
And Amendment No 30 is not acceptable because the person responsible is often not the person subject to obligatory insurance.
Mr Vermeer spoke of the issue of open skies.
In fact, behind all of this there are also problems relating to unfair competition, above all on long routes on which European, American and other third-country companies compete.
The honourable Member is well aware that the Commission is trying to achieve a mandate for negotiation with the United States and with other third countries, which allows, on the one hand, the room for flexibility that countries require when negotiating new agreements with third countries, which are not always entirely in the Community interest, which only affect or interest certain specific countries for special reasons, but at the same time ensures that the Community has responsibility and negotiating powers in the final instance.
I would also like to point out, with regard to flights, that the 1944 Chicago Convention and the 1994 Transit Agreement, in its Article 5, explicitly allow conditions to be imposed on overflights, not only with regard to the payment of certain types of charge, but also with regard to the obligatory nature of certain types of insurance.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is the Commission statement on the ministerial meeting of the European Space Agency on 27 May 2003. . (ES) Mr President, it is a pleasure for me to take the floor today on behalf of my colleague, Commissioner Busquin, and on behalf of the Commission.
The initial approaches emerging from the process of consultation on the Green Paper are converging in favour of the definition of a space policy for the European Union, as well as its application by means of an ambitious space programme.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner both for the time she has devoted to this initiative and for her comments on the matter, which confirm the Commission's intention to develop a strategy consistent with that already presented in the Green Paper on Space Policy and with the initiatives on the Galileo joint undertaking.
The motion for a resolution is a response to a growing concern: when we discuss the Green Paper with a view to the drawing up of a White Paper - in other words, of a more organic Commission proposal - we would not want to find ourselves in a situation where our goals are jeopardised by the severe crisis affecting the entire European space industry and, in particular, the new version of Ariane; nor would we want - and I believe this is one of the Commission's concerns - the impasse in connection with the Galileo project ultimately to jeopardise a highly ambitious project which has required extraordinary cooperation from the whole of European industry.
We hope that these observations, which express our agreement with the Commission, will be heeded by the Council when it meets on 27 May to take decisions.
Sadly, however, this would compromise European skills, technology and expertise, and, in particular, civil applications in all fields, including medicine, information technology and aeronautics.
This is therefore a strategic project, not just in the military sense, but also quite simply in terms of what is Europe's most valuable asset, in other words its technological progress.
At present more than 40 000 people work in the space industry and the sector indirectly creates employment for as many as 250 000.
It is a system based on satellites and ground stations, which is intended to be introduced in 2008.
The European system differs from the American GPS and the Russian Glonas systems in that it is the most modern system, and its operation would not be adversely affected in times of crisis.
In addition, the private sector should be involved in the project, contributing around EUR 200 million.
The Galileo system is vital for the development of European research and technology.
The European Space Agency is an effective intergovernmental coordination body that has contributed to the development of space applications in Europe and throughout the world.
I would, however, Commissioner - and I do not know whether this is a possibility - like the Commission to carry out a study on distortions in competition between Ariane and launchers from other countries on the civil commercial market.
The first discussion within the competent committee, the ITRE committee, will take place on 21 May and the report will be discussed in plenary in November.
Given the problems you have highlighted, Commissioner, I would like, if I may, to speak on behalf of the ITRE Committee and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to remind us all of the timetable for implementing Galileo: autumn 2002, the Galileo Joint Undertaking becomes operative; end of 2002, Commission report to the Council on the integration of the EGNOS programme into the Galileo programme and the concession model; December 2002, Council decision on the services provided by Galileo and the frequency service plan; July 2003, World Radiocommunications Conference; summer 2003, Commission proposal to the Council on the creation of the future security body; autumn 2003, Commission report to the Council on the preselection of the future concessionaire; end of 2004, launch of the first experimental satellite.
Faced with the crisis in the European economy as a whole, and in particular in the sector we are discussing this evening, a self-supporting and independent Europe must want to energetically promote branches of business, and that will involve reflection on its original strengths.
As everyone has stressed this evening, what we quite simply need is modern approaches to Europe's future, in both the economy and technology.
So what we need, quite simply, is greater commitment and more support for a policy on space travel.
We must have independence within this part of the world in this very important sector.
It allows us to be much more efficient in carrying out our EU objectives and policies on climate change, agriculture, security and development in the developing countries.
They use cross-subsidy to the tune of 31.8 billion of public money - and rising fast - compared to our EUR 6 billion - and falling.
Clearly the problems of the telecoms sector have been difficult for satellites in the European Union.
As far as Galileo is concerned, Mr President, you know more than anyone else in this House what is needed.
We must not, therefore, lose this project; national interests must defer to the interests of the Union in this respect.
In my country there is a pop song about Satellite Suzy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot cover in a few minutes all the problems affecting European space policy.
More than a year has passed since the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism adopted this European satellite navigation programme in March 2002, and it has so far proved impossible to reach an agreement within the European Space Agency with regard to funding this programme.
The European space industry, as we have all said, is currently undergoing a considerable crisis.
It employs 30 000 highly-skilled workers in Europe and we must do all we can to protect the extraordinary technological and human potential represented by this industry.
The European Space Agency must take a decision rapidly and this concern is shared by many of us, both as Members of the European and national parliaments, who drew up and disseminated the document 'Galileo: il est temps d'agir' ['Galileo: time to act!'], addressed to the Heads of State and Government of the Member States.
The Galileo programme must be successful and send out a positive signal from Europe concerning an ambitious space policy.
This House must provide its full support so that the joint undertaking can be implemented rapidly and so that the European Commission, as represented by you, Commissioner, shares this concern of our 'Sky and Space' intergroup in the European Parliament.
And in this regard I proposed earlier the inclusion of space policy within the field of Community competences within the context of the review of the Treaties which is currently taking place in the Convention and therefore the drawing up of a future constitutional Treaty.
Ladies and gentlemen, since I took on my responsibilities as Commissioner, I have dedicated every effort to Galileo, and not only effort, but also political impetus, in accordance with my capacities and very willingly.
This entirely contradicts what I have heard, not from these ministers but from their transport colleagues, during a series of Councils in which we have had very tough debates.
So let me make it very clear, ladies and gentlemen: within the Community field, the problems have been resolved.
It is within the European Space Agency that the problems are still to be resolved and that some Member States - sometimes certain Member States and sometimes others, it does not matter - are blocking a project which is absolutely strategic for the development not just of the space sector, but for the technological development of Europe, and so that it does not get left behind in relation to a series of essential and key applications.
I would like to clearly express my great concern at the repeated delays - I said this a year and a half ago, in December 2001 - of the project in the Council of Ministers, which jeopardises any real possibility of its being implemented, particularly if we are saying that we want the whole system to operate according to strict market rules.
If we want hard and fast market rules, it makes no sense that we have been wasting our time for more than a year in the European Space Agency arguing about which country or city the headquarters will be in, whether the President of Galileo Industries is to be this person or that person, or whether they come from this or that country of the European Union.
Mr President, I believe that I speak on behalf of all present when I say that we are more than grateful to Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. (The sitting was suspended at 9 p.m.)
