Filip Adwent was a doctor by profession.
I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we observe a minute’s silence in memory of our colleague. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a further statement relating to certain events of this weekend.
I believe that this is the first time that we have used a symbol in this building for a campaign, such a large symbol, and I would like to tell you a few details about the significance of this white band.
I would like to remind you that this band symbolises the ‘Global Call to Action against Poverty’ which was launched by the President of Brazil, Mr da Silva, in Porto Alegre, in January 2005.
Since then, more than 600 non-governmental organisations throughout the world, including the largest organisations, have joined this campaign and are trying to secure the support of governments and public figures.
It is now our turn, the turn of the European Parliament, and to this end we have chosen this week of plenary sittings, which coincides with the beginning of the G8 summit on Wednesday in Gleneagles.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that the fight against poverty is objective of the Union’s development policy and that this year offers a great opportunity to make progress in this regard, since during this year several high-level conferences will be held on this subject.
You are also aware that, this year, the European Union will contribute EUR 46 000 million in development aid, and this means that the European Union is the world's largest donor in this field.
Please bear in mind that the EUR 70 that each European pays per year in the rich countries for the purposes of development aid is equivalent to the price of one cup of coffee per week.
The objectives of this campaign are fair trade, debt reduction and an increase in aid, both in terms of its quality and its quantity.
On Wednesday morning, a debate will take place on Africa, on the challenges of globalisation and also, of course, on this campaign against poverty, in which Jack Straw, Hilary Benn and Louis Michel will participate.
However, we also need the support of all of you, and to this end I would ask you to sign the white band at the entrance to the Chamber as a sign of your action and your will to combat poverty, so that Hilary Benn can present a vigorous message from this Parliament in Gleneagles.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has requested that the reports by Mr Lauk, on the 2004 Annual Report of the European Central Bank, and Mr Maaten, on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and economic and monetary union, be debated jointly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the two items – the Lauk report on the European Central Bank, and the report on the communication strategy on the euro – were originally to be debated jointly.
When, at a later stage, the two items were separated, it meant that President Trichet would be present only for the Lauk report and therefore would be unable to discuss the communication strategy on the euro with us.
That committee is now asking that it be referred back to committee, pursuant to Rules 52 and 168 of our Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have referred this report to the committee.
The rapporteur agreed with the commissioner concerned to put forward a fresh proposal on the matter at the September part-session.
Today, though, I wish, on behalf of my group, to move that Question Time be dispensed with, and, as I have said, that the services give some thought to these matters. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should in fact like to offer the support of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the proposal put forward by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, as the debate on the Structural Funds is so important that the agenda, as it stands, would not allow a large number of Members to speak.
I plead with colleagues to vote against the proposal by the two leaders.
The first is that most members of my group voted in favour of Bulgarian and Romanian accession on 1 January 2007.
We therefore want the Commission to make a statement on the state of play as regards its planned progress report, enabling us to come to our own conclusions, rather than put the next new Member States, as regards observation and cooperation, in a more advantageous position than that formerly enjoyed by the last ten Member States to join us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is not in any doubt about the fact that Bulgaria and Romania will join the European Union.
For a start, never before have observers been invited so early on; secondly, the treaties explicitly provide for the accession date to be delayed, and, if that were to happen, the observers would be here for rather more than two years; and thirdly they would be with us when the Commission presents its next progress report, in which we can expect an answer as to whether accession is to take place at the beginning of 2007 or of 2008, and debating with observers present is not a good idea.
We have pursued it to the huge benefit of those 12 countries and of the other Member States in terms of greater stability, greater prosperity and greater opportunities for our citizens.
The Hungarian Government has protested and demanded an explanation, those affected have written to the Commission, and indeed as a Member of this House, I have also submitted a question to the relevant Commissioner.
Mr President, please follow these events closely, as I am convinced that by obstructing the free movement of services we are not moving closer to achieving our Lisbon targets on competitiveness; on the contrary, we are going in the opposite direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament has passed 83 Lisbon directives, 63 of which should have been implemented.
In fact, only ten have been fully implemented by all the Member States.
Mr President, could you please write to these countries and ask them when they intend to initiate this law? &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, on 26&#160;June our colleague Filip Adwent, a Member of the European Parliament, passed away following a tragic car accident.
His closest family members, his parents and his daughter, also died in the accident.
At a time when expectations of politicians in general are running so high, I would urge colleagues to demonstrate and prove to the citizens of Europe that we are in step with them, as we were in step with them over the weekend, and play our part in making poverty history. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like everyone else, I too am impressed with the wave of solidarity engendered across the whole of the Western world by the organisation of the Live 8 event.
By watching the concerts in Hyde Park, Versailles or Toronto, which they were able to do via 140 television channels, millions of people across the globe have sent a clear message that we should not turn our backs on Africa.
We should also be critical towards quite a few African leaders and, as the brother of the South African President, Muletsi Mbeki, did in the , have the nerve to say out loud that Africa’s problem resides in the plundering of the continent, and is being inflicted by its own leaders.
However, not every European lives in Mayfair in London or on the Champs Elysées in Paris or on the Via Veneto in Rome.
In my country, which was one of the first to join the European Union, the situation is tragic.
It would therefore be a significant step for our Parliament, through your voice, to intervene in support of the release of these two intellectuals.
Mr President, last week five farmers were thrown into jail in Ireland because they resisted the laying of a potentially dangerous gas pipeline through their land and close to their homes.
The Shell-led multinational consortium, including Marathon and Norwegian Statoil, intend to place a pipeline across residential land and beside homes, without an independent safety audit being carried out.
The pipeline operation has not been shown to comply with the necessary safety precautions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to express my sincere gratitude – and, I am sure, all European parliamentarians from the Baltic States will join me – for your recent statement commemorating the 65th anniversary of the occupation of our three sovereign states in 1940 by the totalitarian Soviet Union.
The memory calls for justice.
Therefore, I am sure that a new special Nuremberg process or a special Hague Tribunal will also be established for Soviet war crimes and their perpetrators.
This is not an acceptable level of safety in an industry where safety failures can have catastrophic outcomes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, approximately 58&#160;000 people die each year in the European Union as a result of suicide or self-inflicted injury.
One of the important points to emerge from the research was that, with the exception of Ireland, the elderly have the highest suicide rates in the population.
We could thus try to identify the causes and trends of this terrible phenomenon and see which Member States’ best practice could be benchmarked in the other Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Hans-Peter Martin, a non-attached Member of this House, is now, in the Austrian media, delivering himself of sweeping, foul, unqualified insinuations and slurs, aimed no longer only at this House and the European Union’s institutions, but also at those who assist us in our work as Members and the officials of the European Parliament.
Last Saturday, the people of the world – in particular the young people – called on the G8 nations to sort out the economic problems of Africa.
In particular I refer to Zimbabwe.
That is why I am heartened by the fact that Thabo Mbeke has met with Morgan Tsvangirai, the head of the opposition in Zimbabwe.
Without that new budget, Europe as a whole would lose out, but the biggest losers would be the ten new Member States.
The Budapest solution proposed by the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc Gyurcsány, is working towards the same objective.
If it is unable to reach a compromise, the Council will thus have to draft a three-year budget. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the European Union, or more precisely Poland and Lithuania, shares borders with Russia.
The region of Russia in question, which was formerly known as Królewiec (Königsberg), has been called Kaliningrad for several decades.
This adds up to a heavy burden on our social security and health systems and is also an obstacle to our achieving the essential Lisbon goals.
I therefore urge you to support this declaration, which calls for the Commission to acknowledge once and for all that rheumatic diseases are among the major diseases and should therefore be included in a special category in the Seventh Research Programme. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, trafficking in women and children as commodities from third countries within the Union for the purpose of sexual exploitation and forced labour is a constantly burgeoning phenomenon.
The modern slave trade, which moves 40&#160;000 women and children a year in Greece alone, must be given our attention and addressed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the week before last we were addressed by the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair.
Mr Blair knows that the European project is in crisis.
The problem is that, after nine years of refusing to sign a border agreement with Estonia, Russia finally did so last month, but the Estonian Parliament, following typical parliamentary procedure, added a unilateral non-binding declaration saying that the legal continuity of the State is enforced even when territory is given up.
I would ask you to devise a system for future summits enabling representatives from this House to get access to these events. &#160;&#160; We shall review the system we are using in a manner that is satisfactory to everybody, but the number of passes is limited by the Council.
The Presidency distributes those available amongst the political groups.
We shall examine the issue in light of what you have said in your speech. &#160;&#160; I wish to inform this House that during this week the Maltese Parliament will be adopting a resolution to ratify the European Constitutional Treaty.
By this vote, which is expected to be unanimous, Malta will be aligning itself with the eleven other countries that have already ratified the European Constitution.
For Malta, though, the ratification of the European Constitution has a very particular meaning, as this will be the first time that the two major parties in Malta will have joined together in voting the same way on an EU issue.
After fifteen years in which Malta has been divided by the issue of the European Union, and by whether or not it should become a member, this week will at last see this division healed as soon as both sides of the Maltese Parliament vote in favour of the European Constitution.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; That concludes this item. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0210/2005) by Mrs Wallis on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of Mr Bossi (2004/2101(IMM)). &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are dealing here with four cases referred to us by the Italian authorities concerning the immunity of Mr&#160;Umberto Bossi and whether this House should lift that immunity or not.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has considered these four cases over a long period of time and is now in a position to make recommendations to the House.
If a Member uses force or violence, then that is not something that is a proper carrying-out of the duties of this House and therefore we were unanimous that the immunity should be lifted in that case.
Both these instances refer to speeches made by Mr Bossi on various occasions but speeches where, on one interpretation, he appears to be using inflammatory language which could be encouraging other citizens to act in a way that perhaps would not be appropriate.
The Committee on Legal Affairs discusses immunity issues .
I would like to thank Mrs Wallis for considering these cases with such care.
If you are going to read these documents and find out to what depths some Italian politicians sink, you will need a pretty strong stomach.
We do indeed hope that the Statute will bring this about, for I do believe that the current regulations are too vague, in that they fail to protect those Members who need protection, while allowing others to exploit the system. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0208/2005) by Mr Speroni on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of Mr Marchiani (2004/2105 (IMM)). &#160;&#160; .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the report by Mr Lauk on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (A6-0203/2005) on the 2004 Annual Report of the European Central Bank (2005/2048(INI)) and on the report by Mr Maaten on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (A6-0197/2005) on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and Economic and Monetary Union (2005/2078(INI)). &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I would like to make a number of comments on the European Central Bank’s annual report.
In the first half of the year, there was evidence of slight growth, with inflation expected in the medium and longer term, whilst the opposite happened in the second six months.
As the ECB itself points out, poor economic growth is not least the result of the Member States’ failure to make the structural reforms that are necessary, and cannot therefore be blamed on the ECB, which, contrariwise, points out that the Member States need to shoulder more responsibility in this respect.
As a result of responsibility for stability having been returned to the Member States, its job has become more difficult in three areas in particular: it has become immensely more difficult to maintain discipline in the Member States, firstly as regards the size of the national budgets, secondly in terms of the way in which the state’s functions and outgoings are structured, and, thirdly, as regards the structure of tax revenue.
The ECB guaranteed that the integration of the ten new Member States would proceed without a hitch.
Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia have been part of the European exchange rate mechanism since 28&#160;June 2004, and were joined on 2&#160;May 2005 by Latvia, Malta and Cyprus.
One explicit demand that we make of the ECB is that, reform of the Stability and Growth Pact notwithstanding, the Maastricht criteria should continue to apply unchanged when countries join the single currency in future, and that there be no laxity in insisting on them.
Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has made this debate on the communication strategy on the euro rather broader and turned it into a discussion of the euro’s current state and what we should actually do with it.
I believe that many of us, certainly myself included, at the time when the euro was introduced in 1999, and especially in 2002, had the feeling that it would bring Europe closer to its citizens, who – certainly those in the euro zone – would be clutching Europe in their hands on a daily basis and would thereby be helped to have a sense of closer connection with it.
The ECB’s stricter approach to managing monetary policy has brought increased price transparency, and hence a stable environment for the euro and low inflation.
Without the euro, 11 September 2003, 11 March 2004 or indeed the 2002 accountancy scandals would have caused far greater turbulence.
Raw materials and oil on the global market are paid in dollars and the favourable exchange rate, in any case up to the referenda in France and the Netherlands, has resulted in relatively low fuel and food prices for European consumers.
When I say: ‘yes, but there are statistical offices and Eurostat that can back this up’, they respond: ‘yes, but they are lying too’.
I think the report has been improved by the large number of amendments that have been tabled on this subject, also in the committee and by the Members from the new Member States.
It is important that we strike the right note with them when the euro is introduced in those countries, but also with the citizens of the Member States currently in the eurozone, for it is their verdict that we will have to face.
I shall then have something to say about a number of comments and proposals in the draft report on the ECB Annual Report for 2004.
In 2004 the ECB’s monetary policy operated in an environment of gradual economic recovery in the euro area.
While the appreciation of the euro exchange rate in 2004 contributed to lower inflationary pressures, increases in administered prices, indirect taxes and rises in the oil price visibly affected headline inflation rates.
The average fiscal deficit in the euro area broadly stabilised at 2.7&#160;% of GDP.
This is a level which not only implies a rising debt ratio which could become unsustainable, but also leaves little safety margin for short-term budgetary relief in the event of adverse developments.
Discussions on a revision of the Stability and Growth Pact continued in 2004, resulting in a report adopted in March 2005.
The budget implementation in 2005 and the preparation of the budget for 2006 both provide the first opportunities for all parties involved to rigorously implement the provisions of the Pact, so as to show that the Pact remains an effective framework for fiscal policy coordination and discipline.
As the rapporteur said, everybody in this Parliament knows what was the ECB’s position throughout these discussions.
Finally, 2004 saw significant revisions of past deficits and debt figures in a few countries, undermining the effectiveness of EU fiscal surveillance.
The new Integrated Guidelines for 2005-2008, comprising both the new Broad Economic Policy Guidelines and the new Employment Guidelines, should now set the stage for concrete action at EU level and by Member States.
Whilst generally adjustments of relative prices are economically justified, there are cases where inflation differentials may be due to inappropriate national economic policies and rigidities in labour and product markets.
For these countries structural reforms are very highly advisable.
I note that on many important issues the views expressed in the motion for a resolution are very close to those held by the ECB, such as the statements regarding the ECB’s monetary policy conduct in 2004 and the diagnosis that the relative weakness of economic activity can be attributed to lack of structural reform.
Your position with regard to the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact was also very close to the ECB’s views in this respect.
Although there are many topics on which we entirely share the views expressed in the motion for a resolution, there are some issues where we have a slightly different opinion.
The approach chosen by the ECB to communicate its monetary policy decisions to the public almost in real time facilitates expectation formation and thus enhances the effectiveness of monetary policy.
Amongst the measures suggested in this resolution is for the ECB to undertake a yearly quantitative analysis of the benefits of the single currency for citizens.
The European Central Bank and its President have confidence in Europe’s ability to overcome the current difficulties, and I fully shared the feeling of confidence and determination immediately expressed in the statement signed by your President, Josep&#160;Borrell&#160;Fontelles, and Jean-Claude Juncker and José Manuel Barroso.
Finally, everyone can be sure that in the future, as in the past, we will fully adhere to our mandate: the draft Constitution does not comprise any changes to the operation of the European Central Bank and of the single currency, which are based on the extremely solid foundations bestowed upon them by the Treaty of Maastricht.
Both the euro and the Central Bank have been under attack over recent weeks.
I believe that this debate offers a good opportunity to respond to some of the unfounded criticisms levelled at the single currency and the European Central Bank over recent weeks.
At these difficult times for the European Union, therefore, from both economic and political points of view, we must take particular responsibility for taking the correct decisions.
I believe, as I have said inside and outside of this Parliament on many occasions, that the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, which has very significant support from this Parliament, is a correct decision that is starting to be applied rigorously, as President Trichet has just called for.
Next week we will debate the proposed recommendations adopted a few days ago by the Commission in the Ecofin Council with regard to Italy; in the coming weeks we will do so in relation to Portugal and before the end of the year we will do so with regard to other countries: some of the founding countries of the European Union and also some of the new member countries of the Union.
Those rules must be applied with credibility and energy, but also rationally, in order not to provide support for the arguments of those people who want to set economic stability and budgetary discipline against economic growth and job creation on the grounds that they are incompatible; they are perfectly compatible.
Following its reform, the current Stability and Growth Pact allows that compatibility to have practical consequences in terms of the decisions adopted by the Commission and the Council.
As President Trichet has just said and as the report says, we must strengthen the dialogue of the European Central Bank, whose independence must be respected, with the Commission and the Council and, in particular, with the Eurogroup.
I have the privilege of observing the important dialogue held each month within the Eurogroup between the President of the European Central Bank and the Finance Ministers of the euro zone.
We must deal with a very important issue with which I would like to end this speech the enlargement of the euro zone to the new Member States, which will be in a position over the next few years to join the 12 current member countries rigorously and at the same time taking a broad view.
I&#160;also agree wholeheartedly with many of the previous speakers regarding the introduction of the euro in the old Member States.
I&#160;agree with Mr Maaten that despite the fact that the process of introducing the euro in the twelve Member States has been one of the most successful projects in the history of the European Union, the inhabitants of individual countries have a very different perception of this fact, and we have to acknowledge that with this process we have not succeeded in winning over the citizens, who regard the introduction of the euro as the reason for increases in consumer prices.
The new Member States should also make use of any experience, mainly positive, of the old Member States, particularly within the framework of twinning programmes.
What Parliament is set to adopt or reject is Mr Lauk’s report, and we must therefore give our opinions solely on Mr Lauk’s report.
It is abundantly clear to all of us that the main objective of the European Central Bank (ECB), as laid down in the Treaties in force, is to maintain price stability.
The rapporteur has focused almost exclusively on the bank’s main objective of maintaining price stability, thereby overstating its importance; he has also sought to drum home, needlessly and , the institution’s position as regards the recent changes to the Stability and Growth Pact.
The current EU crisis is not solely, nor even predominantly, an institutional crisis.
To criticise the minor amendments made to the Pact by the Council, as the rapporteur does – and this places him alongside the most hard-line critics of those amendments – is, in my view, to overlook the wider picture in Europe and the EU’s economic and social problems.
Mr Lauk, however, in this report, is unmoved by either the social upheavals or the self-evident problems involved in the implementation of the Pact, and continues to sing its praises.
But lower interest rates are more a response to poor growth than a sign of success.
Mr Trichet, only a few weeks ago you called upon European consumers to open up their purses and spend more, but there is not enough certainty in the current economic climate to facilitate the surge in spending that you call for.
They are uncertain as to what the current hike in oil prices will mean, how long the side-effects will last and what to expect in the long term – their future.
All policies are interdependent and no economy should have a higher rate of dependency on any one energy source and no amount of increase or decrease in the interest rate can change that fact. &#160;&#160; Mr President, those who want power, who want to shape the way things are, must envy you, for you, right now, are guiding a vitally important vessel through heavy seas, and I am sure you are aware of the responsibility involved in that.
At a time when the Stability and Growth Pact has been under fire, you contended in splendid fashion for the stability of the euro, facing down the Member States, the Council and the Commission too.
The first was to fundamentally change the Stability and Growth Pact or do away with it altogether, and the second step, now, is to give the European Central Bank equal responsibility for both price stability and other measures, not least for economic growth and job creation.
That is irresponsible, particularly as those who indulge in this sort of talk, are those who ought most to be aware of the fact that reforms at national level are more urgently needed than ever. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the debate on Mr Maaten's report coincides with a period in the European Union in which the course of its institutional cohesion has been disrupted and in which many of the policies which form the backbone of its functioning have been criticised.
The European citizens must be informed in depth about the contribution of the euro to their everyday lives and about the functioning of the European Union as regards financial prosperity, social solidarity and the organised and decisive implementation of the Lisbon Strategy policies.
This revised communications policy about the euro should be clear to the new countries from the point of view of their integration into the eurozone.
It is clear that while the economic evaluation of these factors, that is, monetary policy and the euro, may vary, we must surely recognise that the communication strategy as regards the common monetary policy and the euro is really not a success.
Thus when we talk about Europe's monetary policy and the euro, we must appreciate that the effect of this or that decision will vary greatly depending on the group of residents; I welcome the European Central Bank's intention to analyse the influence on resident groups.
This means that while informing residents, it is also necessary to report problems, let us say when prices increase in the new Member States, as without doubt we are witnessing price convergence between the old and new countries.
Thirdly, the information campaign and communication strategy must be of a permanent nature.
Every day we will be exposed to the influence of the European Central Bank's decisions, and every day we will use the euro and all those problems will be with us constantly, meaning that the process of explanation must be constant and active. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Central Bank, which is a staunch advocate of the anti-grass roots policy of the European Union, the Maastricht Treaty and the Lisbon Strategy, has – in all the years it has been operating – been characterised as a grim executor of the interests of big business, to the detriment of payrolls, social achievements and the workers' standard of living.
The European Central Bank is the institution of the European Union which has full and exclusive responsibility for monetary policy and zealously defends its social indifference, maintaining that its sole objective is price stability.
The European Parliament should not waffle on and delay amendments that have been duly passed on the first reading, which was what happened at the June plenary session, when discussing mechanisms for more effective control over the budget deficits. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the Court of Justice, Mr Trichet, yours is the least controversial institution in the European Union.
There is a great deal for us to do, for public sentiment does not reflect the facts. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Trichet, Commissioner, I believe that examining the annual report of the European Central Bank provides the opportunity to analyse the coherence of the monetary policy conducted on behalf of the entire eurozone by the European Central Bank.
From that standpoint, I should like to make three observations.
I believe, however, that dialogue comprises an idea of reciprocity and that if you intervene on the reform of the Pact and on the required structural reforms, others must, in return, be able to tell you how things stand with regard to monetary policy.
From the beginning, however, this Parliament has, as you know, requested transparency, or in any event information, concerning the nature of the debates taking place within the Council of Governors, and I believe that that request is a legitimate one.
The Central Bank is too obsessed with structural reform, without recognising that there will be no structural reform without growth.
Europe’s prospects for economic success are bound to structural reforms; many of our colleagues have mentioned this.
In an economic climate characterised by unsatisfactory budget deficits and widespread unemployment, several points deserve special emphasis.
This is what our voters in France and the Netherlands want, even though they rejected the Constitution; they still want more political union and the Constitution is one way to achieve this on the economic front. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is sometimes hard to identify with the European Union, and the same is true in the case of the euro.
I wish to thank Mr Maaten for the even-handedness of his report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by extending the warmest of thanks to my colleague from Baden-Württemberg, Mr Lauk, for his report, in which he has rightly drawn attention to the good work done over the past year by the European Central Bank and by you, Mr&#160;Trichet.
Despite the apparent inflation, many members of the public see the euro as a success story, and, while I am on that subject, I would like to say how much I agree with Mr Ettl that it is certainly not price stability alone that brings Europe economic growth, but rather – as Mr Trichet pointed out – economic policy that responds to the present need for reform, and that is what we need to see at the national level.
There is one point that the rapporteur addressed and which continues to be seen as a major problem by many members of the public, by which I mean the high costs involved in transferring funds across borders.
The younger generation in particular find it absolutely unacceptable that the Member States should, year in and year out, spend several hundred billions of euros more than they collect in tax, and that it should be a matter of European policy – through the alteration of the Stability Pact – that this practice should in some sense be defended.
It follows that I am very grateful indeed to you, Mr Trichet, for not mincing your words when speaking about such changes to the Pact, and, with the interests of the younger generation in mind, I ask you to continue, in future, to keep a close eye on everything done in relation to the Stability and Growth Pact, constantly bearing in mind the needs of monetary policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Trichet, I can imagine how satisfied you must be reading Mr&#160;Lauk’s report, and I will not criticise you for being so.
You have nothing to fear from the representatives of this Parliament as they are zealous defenders of the solutions that you recommend and that have, however, with tragic consistency, failed to restore growth and confidence in Europe.
Mr&#160;Lauk’s report puts forward better proposals than the social security system reforms that you commend, better proposals than the pay restraint that you suggest, better proposals than the reduction in public spending that you oversee.
As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I have intervened on several occasions in this Chamber to express my concern, among the empty benches, about the poor economic and social results of the economic guidelines decided on by the Commission and by your institution.
I note in passing that those on whom this report is going to impose the burden of additional working time have been more effective than you in fighting against the overvaluation of the euro by voting no, in France and in the Netherlands, to the policy that you support.
There are two main reasons for this, neither of which has anything to do with the lack of a communication strategy.
Whilst the euro can help promote economic growth, it cannot do that on its own without sensible fiscal policies and sound economic management in each Member State.
When it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact on which EMU was founded, I trust that, under the revised and hopefully robust pact, the lack of even-handedness in chastising errant Member States will be a thing of the past.
It is no coincidence that the euro has been fully accepted in my own country, Ireland.
It is not just necessary to reflect, therefore, but also to make a great commitment: sustainable growth and employment are the main concerns of the Europeans.
Lithuania and Estonia are the only European Union Member States whose currency has already been pegged to the euro for several years.
Naturally, the citizens’ opinion of the economic situation, their confidence in it and in political and economic leaders goes much further than simply whether or not there has been abuse in the rounding up of certain prices.
I was impressed by the fact that price stability is very much in the minds of all here and of all our fellow citizens.
It also clearly reflects the message that we are getting from the people of Europe.
That would be absolutely abhorrent in the eyes of our fellow citizens.
Price stability is not only what we are called upon to effect by the Treaty and by the messages we receive in Parliament and through out fellow citizens, but it is also absolutely necessary for confidence in Europe: for consumer confidence and confidence in general.
On the contrary: by being credible with regard to price stability, we gain confidence in Europe and we also secure the very low market interest rate that has been mentioned.
In Europe we have the lowest rates for the past hundred years.
I am not only speaking about the short-term rates, but also the ten-year rates.
The European Central Bank is totally independent and that is a necessity.
That is not necessarily recognised, but contact takes place on an extremely frequent basis and, in the same way, contact with the executive bodies is incredibly frequent since it can take place three times per month.
Ever since the European Central Bank was created, it was decided that we would establish our diagnosis immediately after the decision of the Council of Governors and that there would be a press conference enabling us not only to make a diagnosis but also to answer questions.
I can therefore fully reassure you on that issue.
It even proposed a temporary ban pending final adoption of the directive.
The European Parliament called at first reading for a ban on all phthalates in toys and products and childcare articles for children under three years of age and the labelling of those intended for children over three years of age but which might be put in the mouths of children under three years of age.
It has taken five full years after the first reading by Parliament for the Member States to reach a common position in the Council.
Firstly, the six phthalates are no longer treated as substances in the same category or as posing the same danger to children's health on the basis of scientific reports by the competent scientific committee.
The Council divides them into two categories: for the first category of three phthalates, namely, DEHP, DBP and BBP, a total ban is proposed on all toys and childcare articles, because the risk assessment showed that these substances are carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic.
I can tell you that there are experimental data on rats and mice which show that these three substances cause neoplasm in the liver and kidneys.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, we ended up by calling for a ban on the three phthalates intended to come into contact with the mouth or in toys and childcare articles which may come into contact with the mouth and we called on the European Commission to draft guidelines for the implementation of the directive.
I do, however, think it is important that it be said that the children of Europe were not, at this point, in any sort of danger, as the Commission, in a decision under the General Product Safety Directive, had called on the Member States to ban certain toys and babycare articles containing the six phthalates in question, although this decision had to be extended on a regular basis in order to remain valid.
This compromise, which will serve as the basis for what will now be a permanent rule, takes the precautionary principle into account without, however, losing sight of the principle of proportionality.
Speaking on behalf of the Commission, I would like to state that it is not minded to accept Amendments 22 and 23, on the grounds that they do not reflect the compromise reached between Parliament and the Council.
In the course of the negotiations between the Council and Parliament, the Commission had offered to make two statements in order to facilitate the reaching of a compromise, and that I shall now proceed to do.
The first statement has to do with the compilation of a handbook and reads as follows: As soon as a directive on restrictions on the marketing and use of phthalates in toys and childcare articles has been adopted, the Commission, in consultation with Member States’ experts responsible for the management of Directive 76/769/EEC and stakeholders, will prepare a guidance document in order to facilitate the implementation of the directive.
The document will address in particular the provisions relating to restrictions on certain substances in toys and childcare articles, insofar as they concern the condition “which can be put in the mouth”, as in the annex to the directive.’ The second statement deals with the use of fragrances in children’s toys, and reads as follows: The Commission confirms its intention to address the issue of fragrances in toys within the framework of the revision of the directive on the safety of toys.
The precautionary principle, on the basis of scientific results, was thereby sufficiently reflected in practice.
If we carry on like that, we will end up as a breeding-ground for prohibitions and panic.
Contrariwise, although hardly any deaths are attributable to phthalates, 380 people a day die as a result of smoking, despite which we have not yet managed to ban smoking from the sittings of this House.
I should also like to thank the Council, which has also exerted itself in some really basic areas, thereby showing that it takes Parliament seriously.
Almost six years have had to go by before we have been able to get such important legislation affecting our children’s health adopted.
This is an issue that affects everyone in Europe every single day and is very much on people’s minds, and yet such a long period has elapsed.
I am therefore all the happier about the result that we have obtained and that is now before us.
There are also other positive points, to which Professor Trakatellis has already referred and which I shall not repeat.
We have maintained our stance that, in such an important area, it must be the precautionary principle that applies.
Our children’s health was at stake, yet people were unwilling to apply the precautionary principle.
These amendments are not part of the compromise.
This directive concerns the daily life of European families and sounds the death knell for these six substances that pose a danger to health and to the environment, since they are reprotoxic and particularly harmful to the immune and hormonal systems.
It is completely logical that the ministers for trade and industry of the 25, in accordance with the proposal put forward by our former Dutch Liberal colleague, Jan&#160;Brinkhorst, in September 2004, wished to withdraw these six phthalates from the market.
For its part, Parliament wished to strengthen the common position for two main reasons: firstly, because it made better sense since, from now on, with the compromise, no distinction is any longer made between a child over three years of age and one less than three years of age who puts toys in its mouth; and, secondly, because it is our responsibility as elected representatives of the citizens of Europe not only to say no to these phthalates in toys but also – if need be - to gradually regulate or ban all phthalates.
That is why this legislation must be considered as a first application of the precautionary principle to phthalates.
It is long overdue, but we are at last able to take action to protect children from these high concentrations of toxic substances in their toys.
Toys are meant to be fun and they are meant to be safe.
Soft PVC toys containing hazardous substances are neither fun nor safe and that is why this ban is so important.
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Professor Trakatellis, for his work on reaching this agreement and I echo his call to Parliament to support the compromise amendments in the vote tomorrow.
The fact that this will cover all toys that can be put into the mouth is also vital as are the Commission guidelines on exactly what this will mean and what products will be covered to ensure the highest level of protection.
I believe we have come to the right conclusion and that this legislation will protect the health of young children. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I believe that the recommendation at second reading that we have before us is a success as far as consumers are concerned.
An important reason why we have achieved this success in Parliament is that the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Trakatellis, was so tough and determined in the negotiations.
I should like to thank him for the way in which he carried out this work, as a result of which we have been able to achieve this agreement whereby it will be possible also to ban the last three disputed phthalates in toys intended for children of between three and six years of age.
I believe that we have sufficient knowledge when a number of the recognised committees say that these products are dangerous and involve risks.
They can also have a harmful effect on the endocrine glands, and are reprotoxic and carcinogenic.
The need to inform and educate people about these threats is a major problem.
I support the legislation, but before welcoming the compromise package agreed between the representatives of the European Parliament and the Council, which goes further by extending the ban of concentration in toys and childcare articles to children in general – as opposed to the original wording referring to children under three years of age – we must first obtain clarification as to the exact nature of the risk posed by DINP, DIDP and DNOP to children.
In my view there is little benefit in distinguishing between toys designed for children under three and those for children over three, because as a&#160;mother I&#160;know that often the older children play with the younger ones and with the same toys.
It is important to point out that phthalates can enter children’s bodies not only via the mouth, but also through the skin, and can thus cause other illnesses.
Our absolute priority should be to protect the health and safety of children.
This holds particularly true in cases where we have a direct influence on the issues that are at the root of a problem, and where we are in a position to take decisions and impose legal restrictions that minimise the suffering of our youngest citizens and the incidence of disease in this group.
As rightly stated by Helen&#160;Perivier, a Greenpeace campaign coordinator, some manufacturers are fully aware that they are adding compounds that pose a threat to children’s health, but they fail to take into account that it is children who are most susceptible to the effects of these chemicals.
Toys imported from the Far East have traditionally contained high levels of phthalates. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am very pleased that we have this balanced compromise and I am glad that we have rejected the idea of a ban only on products designed to go in children's mouths.
Finally, I would like to thank Mr Trakatellis.
Very few politicians will wish to speak out against such proposals, for fear that their words may be misinterpreted, but there is some concern that the link between the use of phthalates in toys and a risk to children has not been firmly established.
Phthalates are dangerous chemicals.
They argue that the precautionary principle is being applied more on emotional than on scientific grounds, that harmful links have not been indisputably established and that this is an inappropriate basis for making legislation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that tomorrow will see the beginning of the end for soft PVC in toys.
The ban on softeners that damage the reproductive system is a milestone in terms of the protection of consumers and particularly of children.
I would like to see us venture a quantum leap in the second category too, for we could then demonstrate that the internal market is not just in the interests of industry, but also exists to benefit and protect children.
I hope that the Commission will produce, as soon as possible, a proposal covering medical materials such as infusion tubes and blood bags, for alternatives are available to these too, and here too we cannot jeopardise the health of children and the newborn in particular. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, phthalates are used for softening plastic in toys and can harm foetuses, cause liver damage and impair people’s reproductive ability.
The directive is concerned with six different softeners divided into two groups.
It is proposed that there be a complete ban on the first group for children of all ages.
That is a tightening-up of the Danish rules, in which the ban only applies to toys intended for children under three years of age.
It is proposed that there be a ban on the second group of phthalates in connection with some, but not all, toys intended for children under three.
This would involve a relaxing of the Danish rules, which impose a complete ban on that group of substances in all toys intended for children under three.
If the proposal is implemented without a health guarantee, some countries, such as Denmark, will have a lower level of protection in some areas than they have at present. &#160;&#160; The 2004 ‘Chemicals in Toys’ project, which lasted for eight months with the participation of consumer organisations from nine European countries and the support of the Danish Technological Institute, came to some disturbing findings.
The international research which measured the content of various chemicals in toys also produced something interesting.
Among these 15 ‘clean’ toys, the majority, nine to be precise, were from a group of plastic toys that did not contain phthalates.
The industry has also replaced other chemicals in toys, since the regularity of the legislative direction could be approved on the basis of the precautionary principle. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we believe this report to be a step forward in the recovery of the future stolen from our children.
The Trakatellis report on phthalates in toys represents a victory for the health of children in Europe, who have been suffering from their effects for decades.
After years of insistence too many years the European Parliament has ensured that the precautionary principle be applied by prohibiting their use, a use that has probably already caused health problems for millions of children, as demonstrated by a recent Swedish study which, having analysed more than 11 000 children of up to six years old, concluded that their chances of developing asthma and various allergies are three times higher than those of non-exposed children.
Firstly, in reply to Mr Schnellhardt, neither labelling nor fragrances is included in the final package.
In response to Mrs McAvan, the Commission is aware of the recent study she mentioned, published by the United States National Institute of Environmental Health Science on 8 June 2005.
I promise you that we will do that very quickly. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
They will provide an encouraging opportunity simultaneously to strengthen European growth, competitiveness and employment prospects, and to improve environmental protection.
The ecoindustry is just as important a branch of industry in Europe as, for example, aviation or pharmaceuticals, and its growth rate is more than 5% a year.
The eco-industry at present provides employment for over two million people in the European Union.
The Commission’s communication on an environmental technologies action plan is an attempt to show the direction in which the EU and its Member States should be moving for new insights and feasible ideas to come into being, and it will also show how we might create impartial and competitive market prospects for eco-efficient innovations.
As rapporteur, I believe the basic principle here is that merely sufficient demand will give rise to innovation and create a sustainable market.
Environmental legislation should be adequately ambitious, clear and sustained, so as to develop new environmental technology.
The basic principle should be that environmental costs are fully included in the price of the product.
The true and competitive price of a product, commodity or service, is arrived at when a price tag is also put on the harm to the environment it causes.
Prices for oil and other limited natural resources are so high now that we have to find new and sustainable forms of energy.
The entire European Union budget is approximately 1% of the Gross Domestic Product of the Member States.
This imposes restrictions on direct financing by the EU.
This should be visible as a clear area of emphasis in the Framework Programme for Research and the EU’s future Framework Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation.
The European Investment Bank should also participate in financing.
These should be made known to, and adopted by, all of them.
Citizens should also be advised, through the clearest possible labelling and reliable certificates, of the environmental sustainability of products and services throughout their lifecycle.
I wish to thank Mrs Myller for the detailed and constructive report which she has prepared.
The report will be a valuable contribution to the implementation of the action plan and an incentive for considering the next steps.
Support for environmental technologies is a policy which creates benefits for all sides, in that it strengthens the competitiveness of the European economy and reinforces sustainable development.
That is why environmental technologies and ecological innovation are now recognised as basic components of the reinforced Lisbon Strategy.
The specific actions planned in the action plan cover the supply and demand of environmental technologies.
As Mrs Myller has just emphasised, demand for environmental technologies must be stimulated by determining objectives with respect to the performance of basic products, services and methods.
These objectives must be an incentive for innovation and for opening up the market to technologies which benefit the environment.
Another concern formulated in the report concerns the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the action plan.
It should be stressed that a number of these actions are addressed specifically to small and medium-sized enterprises, even if they are not mentioned, such as the action for improving the tests and verifying the performance of environmental technologies and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially with the development of ecological innovation and the promotion of products on the market.
In the present case, I should like to refer to the contribution of the European Environment Agency, which has developed a new Internet portal for environmental technologies linked to numerous databases which are useful to anyone developing technological applications, as well as to simple users.
The future implementation of the action plan will depend on the active participation of the Member States.
I hope that the preparation of roadmaps at national level, which was approved by the Spring Council in 2005, will give the Member States a new opportunity to study the specific national measures needed in order to implement the action plan.
The promotion of environmental technologies worldwide through international trade and of cooperation on development supplements the cohesive set of measures provided for in the environmental technologies action plan.
Its impact assessments need to be adjusted to take full account of the huge economic benefits that this stimulus can give to our economy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this document is worthy of praise and I believe that it is appropriate that technologies relating to the environment should be supported.
Nevertheless, I would have liked rather more specific details because, so far, the environment is being identified with just two or three aspects of what we may call sustainable development — I am referring to climate change or the view that environmental technologies are those that improve the industrial processes for preventing emissions.
Nevertheless, I believe that there are many other extremely important environmental technologies that are not integrated in a systematic manner and that are not treated in the same way within the European Union's research projects: examples are conservation of existing resources and combating disasters.
The European Parliament has an essential role in explaining the importance of this project and mobilising the necessary public support.
Before I say a few words about funding and investment, I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Davies regarding the importance of impact assessments, extended correct state-of-the-art impact assessments for environmental technologies and for environmental policies in general.
Risk capital is also crucial to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
I would call on Member States and their regional governments to seize the opportunity and include eco-innovation in their programming in order to maximise the synergies between environment protection and economic development.
Naturally, all Commission proposals are highly dependent on the issue of the discussions on the financial framework for the period 2007-2013.
I am sure that new technologies to fight and prevent forest fires could be developed. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This thematic strategy is the first in a series of seven strategies which represent a new way of preparing coordinated environmental policy.
The strategy on air pollution is now in the final stages of preparation, having passed through the extensive consultation procedure in which the European Parliament was actively involved.
Nowadays, approximately 350&#160;000 premature deaths a year are linked to air pollution.
Even and when the present policies and current legislation have been fully applied, we shall still have over 270&#160;000 premature deaths in 2020.
Air pollution has an adverse effect on the environment and on ecosystems.
In short, the damage to health and the environment is so acute – over EUR 200 billion a year in repercussions on health alone – that we need to step up our action.
We need to bear in mind that well prepared environmental policies can make a positive contribution to competitiveness and to the creation of high quality jobs.
The health problems which it causes and the poor quality of the air that we breathe lead to the loss of 150&#160;000 million working days a year, to losses in productivity and, as a result, to serious health spending.
Action such as this in connection with air pollution will have direct benefits for European citizens.
It will bring about an important improvement in the quality of air that we breathe.
Commissioner, the three years are up on 22 July.
The Commissioner has rightly drawn attention to the problem of air pollution.
The world needs clean technology.
The Chinese, Indians and Koreans are also struggling to meet air quality standards.
Opinion polls show that the public wants special action from the European Union to improve the environment.
Environmental protection promotes competitiveness.
The costs have been four times, and even ten times less than the estimates made beforehand.
President Barroso is not present, but I would like to remind him, nevertheless, that we also pay a price for inactivity.
The price is also paid in as many as 300&#160;000 untimely deaths every year.
These figures are not imaginary: they are actual costs.
Commissioner, you can count on our support provided you persevere and have this thematic strategy published shortly.
If the Commission fails to do this, then you have a problem.
If you want to regain the confidence of the public, you will need to ensure that you pull out all the stops in order to actually tackle cross-border air pollution and fight it effectively.
This can be done by means of this thematic strategy, but we should not wait any longer, get down to brass tacks and persevere.
Commissioner, you can count on our support, you have my word on this, but we expect you to make an all-out effort. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while taking the Commissioner’s goodwill as read, I cannot refrain from quoting to him a few figures on air pollution: 370&#160;000 premature deaths per annum in Europe, which is many times the number killed on the roads.
As I see it, we need together to strive towards this particular Lisbon goal in order to make ourselves more competitive.
As Mr Bowis says, thematic strategies 6 and 7 are provided for in the Sixth Environmental Action Programme.
I always stay calm, even when something is unpleasant or difficult for me.
The contribution of the European Parliament remains very important.
With continued cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, we will be able to provide the European Union with an effective and efficient way of addressing the impact of air pollution on human health and the environment.
I fully agree that the effects of air pollution are serious and the strategy must ensure further substantial improvements.
We know that environmental policies can promote competitiveness and create high-quality jobs.
In any event, the potential impact for Europe’s competitiveness has been analysed and we are satisfied that the impact of the air strategy will be very limited.
It has gone through extensive stakeholder consultations and full impact assessment, as well as cost benefit assessment. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Giles Chichester, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning measures to safeguard security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment (COM(2003)0740 – C5-0643/2003 – 2003/0301(COD)) (A6-0099/2005). &#160;&#160; .
The elements of the proposal concentrate on cementing good regulatory practice, to open the electricity market and to encourage investments in infrastructure in a more competitive market.
In his report, Mr&#160;Chichester has introduced many important and positive amendments to the Commission’s original proposal.
The Commission maintains its position as to the need to strengthen the regulator’s role with regard to infrastructure investment.
I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for their cooperation in the work on this report and on this proposal, which has enabled us to come before Parliament with a clear and united position.
Picking up on the comments of Commissioner Piebalgs, whom I naturally welcome here this evening, I should like to console the Commission for the way in which we and the Council have cut back its text and therefore some of the proposed powers that were envisaged, which we deem unnecessary.
It is not possible to underestimate the importance of energy in general and electricity in particular to our way of life, to our quality of life and to our standard of living.
The objectives are quite clear: it is about establishing measures to safeguard security of supply and ensure proper functioning of the internal market – these two elements of the proposal.
That is referred to quite clearly in the text.
We have achieved the inclusion of a requirement for a report on overall system adequacy for operational network security for the projected security balance of supply and demand over the next five years and prospects for the security of electricity supply over the next 15 years beyond that, thereby flagging up what investment requirements will be needed.
I commend this proposal to the House. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, safeguarding the security of the electricity supply and ensuring an adequate level of interconnection between the infrastructures of the Member States is absolutely essential, particularly at a time when we are planning to set up and enhance the single market for energy.
In this context, I felt, when it came to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs drawing up its draft opinion on this report, that the Commission and Parliament should offer us a global perspective on this issue.
It will also make it possible to strike the necessary balance between supply and demand, within a framework of excessive differentiation.
Mr Chichester’s report takes these points on board and, accordingly, represents a positive step towards improving upon the Commission’s proposal.
But there is a good chance that we are now taking a step in the right direction, bearing in mind considerations of competition and sustainability, and reconciling rules and objectives already negotiated and those to be negotiated in future.
We could no doubt mention many examples of this, but allow me to cite, as one such example, central-eastern Europe’s power generating units, which are not infrequently more than 40-50 years old, or the fact that, in purchasing power parity terms, a Hungarian citizen today pays twice or three times as much for electricity as the citizens of some of the older Member States.
Of course, we also need investment in infrastructure and interconnections.
Ladies and gentlemen, my group supports Mr&#160;Chichester’s whole position.
The right conclusion to draw from the power cuts in Italy in 2003 would have been that the blame for these lay primarily with the lack of competition in the clapped-out infrastructure.
The Commission took a step in the wrong direction by assuming, as it originally did, that state bodies could make good the lack of competition and would, in cases of doubt, be more competent to judge which parts of the Member States’ network infrastructure were in need of investment.
By promoting the conditions under which a wholesale market can function adequately and send appropriate price signals for investment in production capacity, the EU is taking the right approach to dealing with the issue of security of supply.
Its most important objective must be the creation of viable energy market structures in which businesses can make money, that being the right incentive for the creation of an investment climate in which infrastructure can come into being.
The uninterrupted production of electricity and its secure supply are therefore important.
Neither does our group believe that the market alone can solve all the problems of production and ensure the security of supply.
We in the Nordic countries have bad experiences of the effects of market mechanisms on the price of electricity consumers pay.
The price reflects the fact that it is determined by marginal power produced at its most expensive, in other words, according to the highest possible price.
This market mechanism is very unfavourable for consumers.
The Nordic electricity markets are a good example of the market not being able to solve all the problems.
They are furthermore able to put up the price of electricity in a way that cannot be regarded as acceptable.
At the same time, however, I should like to alert the House to three aspects of this issue that have a direct bearing on what we mean by safeguarding security of supply.
The second aspect relates to an issue that has also been highlighted by the rapporteur, namely the importance of ensuring a balanced use of the various primary fuels in electricity generation.
I should like to take this opportunity to call for the construction of the second leg of the Yamal gas pipeline to be speeded up. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Chichester for his objective report on safeguarding the security of electricity supply.
We have also learned that a deregulated market demands quality controls both on the variety of producers needed to guarantee the electricity supply and to meet demand and on the network itself and the network’s structure.
We have also learned of the need to check that these investments in actual fact take place.
It became very clear then that none of these quality controls had been fully implemented.
When this happens, not only does industrial production come to a halt, but other functions important to society are also affected and people’s quality of life is dramatically reduced.
I should like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commission on some excellent work which has been pioneering in terms of value for voters. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in time I regard the Chichester report as a good compromise, which is why I too will vote in favour of it.
After all, optimising the flow of electricity at critical times, or should I say peak load times, could have a considerable impact on the reliability of electricity supply, as well as reducing necessary reserves and costs, and, most importantly, providing greater security at times of potential crisis.
That means that we should find a way to secure long-term investment, stability of investment, conditions for investment, standards for transmission system operators and also inter-connection capacity in the European Union.
From that point of view I very much hope that the proposal based on the collaboration between the Council and Parliament will work.
In general, as already mentioned, this directive definitely cannot rule out blackouts in some places in the European market.
I ask the House to support the compromise amendments tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
