Ratification of the ILO's 2006 Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (debate) The next item is the report by Mary Lou McDonald, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision authorising the Member States to ratify, in the interests of the European Community, the 2006 Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention of the International Labour Organisation C6-0241/2006.
The added value of this Convention, a real beginning for a code for international maritime labour, lies in that it makes the existing standards more effective, that it adapts them to globalisation, and above all that it makes it possible to increase the number of ratifications by States.
In its proposal, the Commission anticipates the principle of authorisation to ratify and suggests 31 December 2008 as the target date for depositing the instruments of ratification.
When the Convention comes into force it will reduce the disparities between the standards of most of the third countries and those of the Community, which should encourage fairer conditions for competition.
The Convention brings together 65 previous ILO conventions into one consolidated document.
Ratification by that date would enable the Convention to enter into force by 2009, almost ten years after negotiations began.
It seems to me that the only people who do not want the Convention to be ratified by 2008 are the Member States, who want, in their own words, 'to make efforts to ratify the Convention, preferably before 31 December 2010'.
The EU should try to enforce minimum employment standards and wages for all vessels operating in its waters and, in particular, I would say that the Commission should retable the proposal for an EU ferries directive.
In ratifying the convention, the Member States will primarily be strengthening the global social framework, because they are aiming for decent conditions worldwide.
We consider it necessary to strengthen maritime safety, so that careers at sea attract young Europeans and so that 17 000 vacancies for Community seafarers can be filled, especially vacancies for bridge and engine officers.
Finally, I would remind you that the European Commission quite rightly withdrew the proposal for minimum employment standards and wages for seafarers working on its waters in 2001.
I agree with everything that Ms McDonald has said with regard to the need for Europe-wide regulation.
The ILO Convention that is being discussed this evening offers us the opportunity to make that choice.
It is also essential to keep to the target date of the end of 2008 proposed by the ILO.
I would like also to say that we are aware that the target date of December 2008 is ambitious, but it is realistic.
The ILO has worked out a plan of action that relies on the Maritime Labour Convention coming into force in 2010 and, at the latest, in 2011.
The Commission, in proposing the depositing of instruments of ratification before the end of 2008, guarantees that Member States will be in line with this timescale.
Taking into account the ILO's own rules, if Member States deposit their instruments of ratification at the end of 2008 at the latest, the Convention would come into force before the beginning of 2010.
Annex - Commission Position McDonald Report The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2 and 3.
Written statement (Rule 142) in writing. - (ET) Maritime fields of activity provide work for 5 million people in the European Union.
Ernest Hemingway noted that one could find an Estonian in every port in the world.
