The European Union is being confronted with an unprecedented economic crisis, which has led to a recession in most of the Member States.
This package of modifications has been conceived as a temporary response to a critical situation, although in fact it does also answer the European Parliament's call for greater simplicity and flexibility, reiterated on many different occasions.
I should like to make a brief statement concerning the proposed modifications, so that we all understand their importance with regard to achieving the objectives we have set out: an increase in aid from the European Investment Bank, and the European Investment Fund, as well as greater financial support for technical activities related to project development and implementation; simplification of the eligibility of expenditure; an increase in pre-financing for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF); the total amount of additional advances through this measure will be EUR 6.25 billion; an acceleration in expenditure on major projects by amending the present maximum rate of 35% on advance payments, allowing advance payments of up to 100% for State aid beneficiaries of public benefits.
We in Parliament are aware that these measures must be passed as quickly as possible in order to meet the immediate need for liquidity in the Member States, and we know that these measures will definitely also have positive repercussions throughout all of the regions and municipalities of Europe.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a rare event - so much so, in fact, that it highlights the importance of the discussions, the current revisions and the urgent need for action - as this is the very first time that we will have adopted a proposal for a regulation from the European Commission on the structural funds for which there are almost no amendments.
I am relieved to find that we are so unanimous in our discussion of this proposal for a regulation from the Commission regarding the European Social Fund, and I would like to thank you all for following my recommendation not to table any amendments in respect of the European Social Fund.
It is very clear that the financial and economic crisis demands that we all take responsibility, once again, for the optimum and, above all, rapid qualification of our workers, especially now.
This will make a significant contribution to reducing the bureaucracy associated with the European Social Fund.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too want to take my turn in thanking my fellow Members in the Committee on Regional Development for the spirit of cooperation in which we worked.
Following the credit crunch which hit us several months ago, we all know that the Commission issued a communication on 26 November 2008 on a European Economic Recovery Plan for the Member States and their regions, based on strengthening the European economy and reinforcing the core values of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs.
Among other things, this programme urges the Member States to re-programme their operational programmes for their structural funds and the energy sector, paying particular attention to improving the energy efficiency of buildings, given that the construction sector is one of the industrial sectors which creates large numbers of jobs.
As such, it has become necessary to recast the general Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 on the Structural Funds.
To date the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) has only considered expenditure incurred by Member States which joined the European Union after May 2004 as eligible expenditure for housing, especially for energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing.
Firstly, I considered it useful in my report to focus the framework of the review of the regulation on facilitating energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy in the housing sector on all 27 Member States.
I believe that this proposal is of major importance, given that it is based on the economic situation of a state or region rather than on the accession date.
Finally, the increase in the lump sums to EUR 50 000 is important, because it mirrors current costs.
I wanted in this report to express the European Parliament's positions on this issue, thereby also representing the compromise achieved with the Council within the framework of the codecision procedure on the changes which we made to the initial proposal.
The review of the regulation in question does not affect eligible expenditure in housing and strengthens the activity of important sectors of the economy such as the construction industry and the sectors which build energy systems and renewable energy systems.
To close, I should like to say that Commissioner Barrot is here with us today, representing the Commissioner for Regional Policy, Mrs Hübner, and, as agreed, will make a binding statement by the Commission on the evaluation of the new measures for 2010 in connection with all three regulations.
You have prepared three high-quality reports on the proposals for revision of the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund regulations, submitted by the Commission to the Council and to the European Parliament within the context of the European Economic Recovery Plan adopted in November.
These three reports - relating to the general regulation, the regulation on the European Social Fund and the regulation on the European Regional Development Fund - testify to Parliament's concern to see the European Union provide itself with resources that will enable it swiftly and effectively to combat the effects of the crisis in terms of growth and employment.
This will increase the contribution made by cohesion policy to combating climate change.
With regard to major projects, the amendment tabled in the general regulation is aimed at relaxing the financial management rules, allowing the management authority to include in expenditure declarations to the Commission expenditure linked to major projects that have not yet been the subject of a Commission decision.
The financial and economic crisis also has a particular impact on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
In its proposals the Commission has also sought to simplify the criteria for allocating aid from the ERDF and the European Social Fund.
These changes will simplify the expenditure justification procedure.
This is therefore more than just a timely response to the crisis; this is a response to the repeated calls for simplification of the Structural Funds made by the European Parliament and the Court of Auditors.
The European Parliament has also expressed its concern to respond to the urgency of the situation by ensuring that these three regulations are adopted as quickly as possible and that the measures are applied promptly in the Member States.
The Commission has taken account of Parliament's call.
Thus, during the second half of 2010, the Commission will draft a report on the implementation of the measures adopted within the framework of the recovery plan in the area of cohesion policy within the Union.
The latter will then be invited to present in these reports a review of the implementation of the measures adopted under the recovery plan, showing the results obtained in the context of cohesion policy.
The legislative package will help to facilitate the implementation of the operational programmes and to accelerate investments for the benefit of the European economy, in particular through several simplification measures.
During the second half of 2010, the Commission will draft a report on the implementation of the measures adopted within the framework of the recovery plan in the area of cohesion policy within the European Union.
This report will be based in particular on the annual implementation reports drafted by the Member States in June 2010.
Mr President, as the permanent rapporteur for the Structural Funds within the Committee on Budgets, I have two reasons for welcoming these reports this evening.
The first reason is that the Structural Funds represent the main heading in the European Union's budget, and the second reason, which I along with my colleagues would emphasise this evening, is the speed with which we have worked to provide practical and prompt solutions to the economic crisis, despite having a tight budget, which we will of course have to renegotiate with the Member States when the time comes.
This is what European action stands for, this is what our Europe stands for: boosting high added-value sectors and anticipating, now more than ever before, the end of the crisis by investing in traditional areas, but above all in all those sectors that can help to eliminate the risk of unemployment for our fellow citizens.
However, and this is my message this evening, although Parliament has been able to react quickly and well, it is important now for the Member States to organise themselves so that they can rise to the challenges, as delays, representing billions in aid, can be seen in the administrative inertia of the Member States themselves, in their difficulty in deciding on their strategic objectives and in their refusal to cofinance projects.
They have projects intended to improve social and regional cohesion, create jobs, use local resources and facilitate entry or a return to the labour market.
For this reason, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs supports the simplification of the rules and quicker access to the Structural Funds and European Social Fund.
This offers a two-fold benefit for those countries with less experience in accessing these funds.
The financial impact extends beyond EUR 6.3 billion.
As representatives of our citizens, we are interested in the funds being used to achieve the objectives for which they have been created.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the global financial crisis, the European Economic Recovery Plan states that cohesion policy is contributing significantly to public investment by the Member States and the regions and should act as a means of recovering from the current crisis.
However, as there was no provision for making new funds available or for new courses of action on the ground, it is particularly important for the European Social Fund to be used to its full potential in the fight against unemployment and the rapid increase in competitive pressure on the European economy that have resulted from the current financial crisis and economic slowdown.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome Mrs García Pérez's report.
As part of cohesion policy, the reforms are very important and are aimed at alleviating the adverse effects caused by the financial crisis.
The European Commission is supporting Member States' economies based on four major priorities, the most important of these being increasing the pre-financing from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and European Social Fund and increasing the support from the European Investment Bank and European Investment Fund.
Great importance must also be attached to the report on the eligibility of investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy for housing.
The renovation of residential heating systems must feature on the European Union's agenda of priorities, bearing in mind the added value generated by this measure.
At a time when heating costs are constantly on the rise, Member States must also include in their programmes to combat the financial crisis projects which take into account energy efficiency.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing these three reports in the face of the largest and most difficult economic and financial crisis that has so far been experienced in the history of the European Union.
It is, of course, right that cohesion policy has to play a part in assuaging the consequences of this economic crisis.
Our Group has discussed the three reports very intensively and could have brought a number of other good ideas to the debate.
In many instances - as Mrs Jöns has already said - we were surprised that it has taken an economic crisis to actually make a reduction in bureaucracy possible in the Commission.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and I shall of course vote in favour of these three reports.
We shall vote for them not because they are totally satisfactory - as my colleagues said, we would have liked to have tabled a number of amendments - but because swift action is required.
This work, if we oversee it, Commissioner - as I am going to put a request to you in a moment - will create 250 000 jobs and improve the situation in 1 million homes.
This will save 40 million tonnes of CO2 and reduce the energy bill of each family by EUR 450 per year.
Those are the figures that I place at your disposal and that have been finalised by an important European organisation known in particular for its serious approach.
You told us - and we believe you - that, by 30 June 2010, you will have asked each Member State to submit a report to the Commission.
In all the countries, the operational programmes have just been adopted, and we know that the majority of the management authorities in these countries will not want them to be changed.
In 15 months' time, on 30 June, Commissioner, do not employ too many staff to draft the reports, the analysis of what will be done, as you will not achieve a great deal if you wait for the Member States, the management authorities and partners to set to work.
Mr President, we are today considering reports on regional policy that introduce beneficial changes and simplification.
It is good that we are increasing payments in instalments and speeding up expenditure on large projects submitted in advance, and that it will be possible for payments to be made prior to confirmation.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, view the financial crisis and the climate crisis in relation to each other, as the adverse effects of climate change on the regions are long-lasting and give rise to enormous costs.
This scheme would succeed, therefore, in addressing the worst consequences of fuel poverty which are having an extremely negative effect on many people - if this scheme were to be used properly.
Already, when a building society call centre in Hertfordshire, in my constituency, shed jobs, within 24 hours we were able to call in European-funded response to redundancy aid, showing how Europe can give real help to our local communities.
Finally, I was very proud that Commissioner Hübner came personally to Lowestoft, in my constituency, to launch our GBP 100 million European regional development programme and its emphasis on helping business in our communities adapt to low-carbon growth.
The economic crisis must not deflect any of us from meeting the long-term challenge of climate change.
In my report on the contribution of volunteering to economic and social cohesion, which was endorsed by this Parliament, I called for this very measure to be put in place.
I support the changes proposed by the committee responsible to the Commission's proposal on energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy in housing.
Member States are now being given opportunities to direct these resources so as to achieve the maximum effect in increasing energy efficiency.
Thank you. (PL) Mr President, we are today discussing particularly important changes.
They are important not only in terms of a response to the difficulties related to the financial crisis, but also because they may affect the nature of political cohesion in the period after 2013.
The European Parliament tends to be perceived as a rather junior partner of the Council and the Commission.
Nonetheless, this House is determined that its actions will demonstrate our readiness to cooperate in a swift response to the new challenges before us. (HU) I think we should actually be celebrating today.
I should like to thank Mrs Harkin for drawing attention to recognition of the value of voluntary work. (RO) I would like to begin my speech by welcoming the idea of these coordinated measures.
We are all aware of what the effects of the crisis are in each of our countries, ranging from a fall in economic growth and job prospects to a rise in the budget deficit and recession.
Simplifying the cost eligibility criteria, increasing pre-financing from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund and speeding up the expenses for major projects are measures which, I hope, will help Member States to get out of the economic and financial crisis.
The current Romanian Government has stipulated that this is a zero priority measure and the facilities which have been approved mean that this priority is already guaranteed. (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's package of amendments to the provisions of the Structural Fund regulations is an important step towards simplifying and directly activating resources, both at European and at national and local level.
Madam President, accession to the EU provided access to the European Union's structural and cohesion funds, from which the Republic of Estonia benefitted by around EUR 800 million in 2004-2006, while another EUR 3.4 billion have been allocated within the financial perspective 2007-2013.
Despite the gravity of the economic crisis, the objective of the European Union funds, which is to level out the differences in development within the Union, is closer to being achieved.
However, I agree with the rapporteur, Mrs García Pérez, that a uniform approach is needed in all the Member States in order to avoid increasing disparities within the European Union and misuse of European taxpayers' money. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many ways of tackling the lasting effects of the unforeseen financial and economic crisis.
This revision package, this legislative measure within the European Economic Recovery Plan, was conceived as a good - albeit not quite sufficient - response to this temporary, though exceptionally critical, situation.
It responds, amongst other things, to the request for greater simplification of procedures and increased flexibility in the application of the existing rules under the Structural Funds Regulation that has been repeatedly put forward by the European Parliament in recent years.
I should like to emphasise that it is also to be welcomed that an amendment to Article 7 - 'Eligibility of Expenditure' - is to enable EU Member States and regions to invest in energy-efficiency and renewable-energy measures in housing with the support of the EU Structural Funds, and that this measure is not only intended for low-income households.
In my opinion, this represents an effective, albeit as yet insufficient, contribution to dealing with the current crisis. (PL) Madam President, the European Union is faced with a widespread crisis whose effects are currently impossible to anticipate.
European cohesion policy with a budget of EUR 347 billion for the years 2007-2013 seems to be one of the most effective instruments with which to stimulate investment again and provide additional public funding for national economies.
The Commission has already adopted a series of measures aimed at introducing changes to the existing package of regulations concerning the Structural Funds.
The changes are aimed at accelerating expenditure, increasing liquidity in relation to the implementation of projects and simplifying measures facilitating swift implementation of projects in the regions.
If the proposal is passed tomorrow and also formally approved by the Council of Ministers in April, it will open up the possibility of investing a further CZK 16 billion in heating systems for flats and houses, and not only in the Czech Republic.
If Member States take this opportunity to use up the 4% of European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funding to facilitate investment in energy efficiency in the housing sector, this will make a positive contribution both to our economies and to the environment.
I feel that, in the long run, this will be well worth it. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these measures from the Commission appear to be sound, more or less.
They enable Member States to optimise EU investments as an effective remedy against the ongoing economic crisis.
The European Parliament, through the Committee on Regional Development, is constantly calling for greater simplification of administrative rules.
I therefore agree with expanding the use of one-off sums and across-the-board rates in European Regional Development Fund regulations and introducing three new forms of eligible payments: indirect costs of up to 20% of the level of direct costs, one-off sums of up to EUR 50,000 and across-the-board standard scales for individual costs.
For this reason I consider the package of decisions adopted by the European Commission with the aim of boosting flexibility in drawdowns from the Structural Funds by Member States to be a positive response to the ongoing economic crisis.
We must direct investments towards energy efficiency and renewable energy in the area of housing, with the aim of creating new jobs and saving energy.
We need simple administration, so we encourage ordinary householders to avail themselves of these funds, whether ERDF or Member State funds.
However, before we adopt these amendments, I would like to point out that three out of four European Union citizens are of the view that Parliament plays an important role in the joint shaping of European policies.
It behoves us all to drive this message home to our national governments: that this funding be matched and deployed as quickly and efficiently as possible.
It is a step in the right direction. (RO) 2010 is the year when we will carry out a mid-term review of the way in which the Structural Funds are being used, and I think that priority must be given to energy efficiency.
As rapporteur for the Directive on the Energy Performance of Buildings, I proposed an increase of up to 15% in the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) rate which can be used for improving energy efficiency in buildings.
Looking at ways we can use European Structural Funds more effectively to help those affected by the global economic crisis is one of the many actions Member States need to take to help those who lose their jobs get back into employment as quickly as possible.
The 25 million people across the EU who will find themselves out of work by the end of the year should be the focus of our work in this House to get the economy moving again and help people back into work.
The vast majority of these speeches have given their support to the measures proposed by the Commission, by emphasising their relevance to an effective fight against the effects of the crisis on the European economy.
Moreover, other speeches have insisted on the introduction of rigorous monitoring of the application of these measures and on the presentation of a report in 2010, showing the results obtained.
The Commission has sought to rise effectively to the challenge posed by the economic and financial crisis and, at the same time, it wanted to take advantage of this interactive discussion with the Member States and the European Parliament to respond to the calls for simplification of these procedures and these policies.
Other proposals to amend the general regulation and regulations specific to each fund may follow.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, obviously, all the observations made in the course of this debate will be very useful and others will also be welcomed.
I would particularly like to thank the European Parliament for its commitment to resolve the serious problems posed by the crisis more quickly.
Once again, I would like to thank Parliament for enabling us to act more quickly to limit the painful effects of the crisis, which some of you have pointed out and described so well.
We could have incorporated other elements into the proposal, to speed up or simplify procedures, but we were aware that in order for these measures to be implemented as quickly as possible, it was necessary for the reports to stay as they are at present.
Madam President, Commissioner, thank you.
As a second comment, I wish to say that you must proceed apace in the new term with amending and simplifying other regulations, as other Members have already said, and that the European Parliament wishes to make an active contribution to the study, evaluation and drafting of these regulations.
As we have heard that the take-up rate for renewable energy sources in dwellings will increase, I have to say that, according to the figures at our disposal, the new Member States are at present only using 1% to 1.5%, meaning that perhaps there are a number of difficulties.
I also welcome your statement that you will table a report on the recovery plans in the second half of 2010, based on the programmes submitted to you by the Member States.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (LT) The current financial crisis and economic recession are having a negative impact on public budgets.
When such a situation as the economic recession occurs, it is very important that the European Social Fund is used comprehensively to solve problems of the unemployed, in particular of those worst affected.
The new measure proposed in the report on the review of the ERDF Regulation, concerning investments in energy efficiency and in the use of renewable energy for housing for all Member States, is conducive to both creating new jobs and improving energy efficiency in housing.
For these reasons, I believe that the Report on 'Investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy for housing' is an important step that the EU is taking and I am confident that Member States will be able to make the most of this opportunity.
In Romania, although the official rate is below the European average, a 1% increase in the unemployment rate was recorded last year, reaching 5.3%.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to amend the Regulation on the European Regional and Development Fund (ERDF) so that all Member States and regions in the European Union can invest in measures relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy for housing, with the help of the Structural Funds.
On the basis of the current regulation, the ERDF already supports intervention in the housing sector, which also covers energy efficiency, but only for the new Member States (EU-12) and in certain conditions.
It is important for Member States to be allowed to amend their priorities and reschedule their operational programmes in order to finance measures in this area, if they so wish.
Bearing in mind that a ceiling has been imposed of 4% of the total ERDF funds allocated to each Member State for the costs relating to improving energy efficiency and using renewable energy for existing housing, this ceiling must be raised to 15% so that the investments in this area have the biggest possible impact on the European Union's citizens.
However, we must finish our work here first, in the European Union, in the European Parliament to be more exact, where the interests of all European citizens are represented.
The amendments to the Structural Funds Regulation to take account of cohesion policy will enable us to provide a new impetus for investment and help restore confidence in the economies.
These amendments are particularly appropriate for countries where the rate of use of European resources is low.
As the PPE-DE rapporteur, I call on you to support the European Commission's proposal to amend the Regulation on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund concerning certain provisions relating to financial management.
In relation to the debate on European funds I should like to draw attention to four proposals by the Commission aimed at accelerating use of financial resources and the Structural Funds by the beneficiaries. 1.
Increasing payments in instalments from the Structural Funds by 2%, thus allowing for the payment of additional instalments amounting to EUR 6.25 billion in 2009. 4.
However, this will remain a problem for Romania as long as, at the Commission's request, these actions are eligible only for those towns selected as growth poles.
The proposal for a regulation which is the subject of this report is an example of the way in which European money can be 'made to work' to bring greater benefits to European citizens.
This is how significant results can be achieved, without increasing the allocated funds or without measures being taken which have implications for the Community budget, in other words, simply by improving the rules of the game.
I hope that this is only the beginning and that the European Union will encourage even more investments in energy efficiency.
The amendment to Article 7 of the ERDF Regulation, which enables all EU Member States to invest in measures relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy for housing, with the help of the Structural Funds, is a welcome move not only in the context of the current economic crisis.
Since joining the EU, renewable energy and energy efficiency have become mandatory targets in Romania as well.
For 2009, the Romanian Ministry of Regional Development and Housing will allocate EUR 130 million for renovating heating systems, with nurseries, schools and retirement homes among the beneficiaries.
I believe that this effort by the European Commission must continue by also increasing the financial resources allocated to the JASPER, JEREMIE, JESSICA and JASMINE facilities, which are proving to be effective in speeding up new Member States' access to European funds.
The revision of the three regulations governing the Structural Funds will give the European Union's regions more flexibility in the management and programming of the budgets provided to them under European economic and social cohesion policy.
Faced with the slowdown in the European economy, I welcome the new possibility of speeding up the payment of regional aid funds, and of simplifying the rules on their use, with the aim of freeing up liquidity to allow the swift implementation of new projects in the real economy.
in writing. - (HU) As a result of the economic crisis, several hundred thousand people in the European Union, and more than twenty thousand in Hungary, have lost their jobs.
The most effective tool of the European Union to combat unemployment is the European Social Fund, the rules of which we are now considerably simplifying in order to speed up payments.
The amendments being proposed by the European Commission reduce the bureaucracy involved in drawing on this source of funding and facilitate and speeding up of payments.
The ceiling of EUR 50 000, the previously agreed flat-rate payments and strict ex-post verification reduce the chances of abuse to a minimum.
