Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (CS) Mr President, the presence of a very large number of migrant schoolchildren has enormous consequences for the education system.
Schools must adapt to their presence and include them systematically in their traditional programmes aimed at providing high quality education.
This has nothing to do with the culture of the European Union.
Therefore the decision taken this morning was very important, but the seriously irresponsible act of including a note such as this in a European Parliament document is very worrying. (PL) Mr President, I could not endorse Mrs Vălean's report.
As we all know, different definitions of 'family' and 'family member' are used in different EU countries.
Creation of a right to social benefit claims without the consent of the host country and without taking account of the economic situation may lead to serious social conflicts.
The power of the Internet is supremely important, but is even more important over the regular media.
I voted against this report for one simple reason, which is that I am not in favour of promoting European citizenship.
I am a British citizen and am proud to be so, and what we should be about is promoting the individual citizenship of our individual countries and saying, yes, we are members of the European Union as countries, but we are not European citizens.
I am a British citizen and I am proud of that, not least because of the vicious campaign of the IRA to try and coerce me and my constituents out of that citizenship - something which, thankfully, they have failed to do.
Citizenship lies in Member States.
I believe that citizenship is unique to nation states, and I believe that all of the efforts that are behind this attempt to construct a European citizenship are related to the same attempts to conduct a European superstate.
I am an Irish citizen and, as a complementary adjunct to that, I am a European citizen.
You can be Scottish, Welsh or English, but you have to be Scottish, Welsh or English, or one of those people in Ireland who take on the British citizenship, to be British.
Some of our colleagues seem to have a very narrow, unidimensional, view of citizenship and, indeed, of identity.
Yet we are all multifaceted: I support England in football, because I am English and that is part of my identity; I support Britain at the Olympic Games in athletics, because that is a wider dimension to my identity; and I support the European golf team in the Ryder Cup against the United States - and I suspect that even the honorable Member who made the remarks just now does too.
I worked in housing for 18 years and I am concerned that sufficient attention has not been paid to housing and energy, especially at construction time, as housing contributes significantly to carbon emissions.
This will help better cultural exchange and cooperation between the EU and third countries.
A good model is the report on energy efficiency of tyres, which I have been working on and which presents similar details in a clear, concise manner. (DE) Mr President, we, the German conservative group (CDU/CSU), voted against Mrs Buitenweg's report.
Despite that, a simple majority of this House - not a qualified majority - did vote in favour of this extension today.
Improvements can be made in relation to insurance and in the structural adaptation measures relating to disabled entrances, and the requirement for a law on class actions could be eliminated, but we foresee serious problems for the Member States if, for example, we were forced to include the concept 'belief' in the prohibited grounds for discrimination.
In all our countries we have religious schools - Catholic, Protestant, Muslim, Jewish - and there is an element of discrimination in those schools because the people who are primarily accepted there are of that faith.
That is a cardinal principle, certainly of English law, and I dare say of law in many other European Union countries.
We are all in favour of equal treatment, but we have to recognise that the principles of law which have guided us throughout the ages remain in place.
I did so because I think that Parliament must send out a strong signal, with this vote, in favour of non-discrimination, and there are certainly other much more important factors than those that have just been mentioned.
We have legislation on our statute book which rightly prohibits discrimination on grounds of race and gender in the workplace and elsewhere, but discrimination on grounds of disability or age or sexual orientation is prohibited only in the workplace but not elsewhere - not in consumer protection and not in other situations which citizens can find themselves in and being discriminated against.
The large majority today sends a powerful signal to the Council, and I look forward to adoption in the near future. (NL) Mr President, I enumerated a number of arguments in yesterday's debate as to why the amendments and proposals in the Buitenweg report are unacceptable to me, possibly more so than the original Commission proposal for an anti-discrimination directive itself.
I believe that this report by Mrs Buitenweg is a perfect illustration of this.
This right must take precedence over the right of persons of the same sex to adopt a child.
This is a real step towards the soft totalitarianism that is this new doctrine of political correctness. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while 10 of the 27 Member States are embroiled in an on-going court case due to their failure to transpose the first directive, we have today still seen a simple majority in this House vote to lay a second directive on top of the first.
For that reason I voted against Mrs Buitenweg's report today.
There is always a temptation during these difficult times to exploit those who are less able to defend themselves, to cut corners when it comes to regulation designed precisely to protect against such exploitation.
I do not believe there is any need for European legislation in these matters.
I think very sensitive, traditional matters such as this are much better handled at Member State level, where individual national parliaments can take account of the fundamental culture, traditions and legal systems that are in their own particular countries.
Essentially, the fundamental problem with this is that it takes power away from us, as elected politicians or national politicians, and puts it in the hands of unelected judges to interpret and re-interpret the legislation in ways that were never envisaged at all by the very well-meaning sentiments of some of the authors of this report.
But I believe that, fundamentally, we are opening a huge can of worms. (PL) Mr President, I voted against the report on equal treatment of persons, despite, and perhaps precisely because, I am opposed to discrimination.
I voted for both parts of recital 17, Amendment 28.
It was my intention to vote for the original text, but I did not wish to vote against the amendment wording which, though not as strong as the original text in relation to rights of Member States, did address my concerns sufficiently, and it was clear it would be overwhelmingly carried.
Europe has over 50 million disabled citizens, and it is therefore imperative that we make every measure to improve their well-being.
The release of political prisoners a year ago was the first sign of the Lukashenko regime's willingness to meet the demands of the EU and engage in serious dialogue.
I believe that the involvement of the democratic opposition in Belarus, as well as civil society, is vital for a meaningful dialogue between the European Union and Belarus and eventually the key to the successful process of democratisation. (NL) Mr President, the joint motion for a resolution which we adopted today contains many points that are worthy of promotion.
For example, I agree with the fact that the sacrifices that very many people have made in the fight against totalitarian regimes of the 21st century in Europe should not be forgotten.
It is regrettable that there is no mention of the allies of these totalitarian regimes who, until very recently, held nearly the whole of Eastern Europe in their grip.
It is true that so-called right-wing politicians have made precious few efforts to demand democratisation in Eastern Europe, but it is even truer that very many left-wing politicians actively supported these Communist regimes, even though they play the holy innocent today, even in this Parliament.
We owe our parents and grandparents a firm parliamentary message, and that is what we have produced today.
Truth and memory have an important role in connection with this.
But it should deeply worry us when any system claims that the ruling ideology is too important to be subjected to the ballot box. (FR) Mr President, it is pleasing to see national socialism put on the same footing as communism and included in a general condemnation of the totalitarian regimes that bathed the 20th century in blood but, nonetheless, found great favour with many intellectuals, who have never been held to account and many of whom remain amongst the ranks of our most prominent figures.
It is not with totalitarian methods that one can fight totalitarianism. (ET) I feel that I should explain why I supported this resolution, in contrast to many others from my political faction, and in particular why I supported the version my faction did not support.
The first recognised that Communism and Nazism have a common legacy and called for an honest and thorough debate to be conducted on all the totalitarian crimes of the past century.
I really wonder whether there is need for such a debate.
The Brussels institutions are not rooted in any nation, in any demos, in any cultural unit.
This is pointed out in our resolution, and I support the position.
It is true that electromagnetic fields occur naturally, but the demand for electricity and especially the development of wireless technologies has led to a rapid increase in the amount of electromagnetic waves to which people are exposed.
We must therefore be vigilant, and the European Parliament has fully appreciated this.
As a Member for France's North-West constituency, I can confirm the threat presented by some very high-voltage power lines installed in my constituency, close to schools and health institutions, especially those located in the département of La Manche, where local workers and residents are highly exposed to the emitted waves.
The European Parliament wished here to draw the European Commission's attention to this subject, which justifiably concerns the public.
The European Union has a duty to do more on the issue of establishing a clear-cut policy in the area of electromagnetic waves, by giving more information to the public on this issue and by adopting binding Community legislation. (CS) One of the objectives we outlined in Lisbon in 2000 was a knowledge-based society.
Levels of educational attainment have a direct influence on the employment opportunities of young people and therefore also on their social inclusion and despite the current economic crisis we must not allow this potential to be wasted. (ET) I also voted in favour of this report, because the issue is very important.
All children must obtain an education that gives them fair opportunities in the world we live in today.
All I wanted to add is that I have voted emphatically against the Schmitt report, not least because education, to my mind, is a competence that should remain in Member State hands, as it is not really Europe's concern.
I also have other objections to the Schmitt report, though.
For example, the fact that this report is based on the idea that the education systems in the various European countries should simply adjust to the presence of non-European immigrants, rather than the other way round.
This report, as ever, also contains the obligatory Roma paragraph, of course, again without asking who is, in fact, responsible for what.
I voted in favour of the report on Community statistics on the information society as information and communication technologies make an important contribution to productivity in the European Union and to the growth of GDP.
The purpose of this regulation is to guarantee the continuation of the existing common framework in order to produce systematically Community statistics on the information society which are reliable, harmonised, supplied on time and of high quality, as well as to supply annual statistics on the use of ITC in companies and households.
I believe that there is a permanent need at European level to supply consistent statistics on the information society every year.
I have voted in favour of Mrs Niebler's report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 808/2004 concerning Community statistics on the information society.
I voted for adoption of the report on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation amending Annex 11 to the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on trade in agricultural products.
Sadly, I have to agree with the rapporteur when he states that so far it has not been possible to recognise measures other than supervision measures across borders, because no specific instrument of mutual recognition exists.
I voted in favour of Mrs Jöns's report as I support extension of the types of costs eligible for a contribution from the European Social Fund.
in writing. - I support this regulation which will allow faster and more efficient access to European funds in order to prevent unemployment and fight social exclusion during the crisis.
The aim of the proposal is to add a further, simpler, method of spending the European Social Fund, so that its contribution to addressing the economic and social challenges facing Europe during the crisis can be faster and more effective.
I voted in favour of Mrs Jöns's report on extending the types of costs eligible for a contribution from the ESF.
in writing. -The European Parliament welcomes the Commission's swift action in proposing the amendments to this legislation, which will undoubtedly help to overcome the negative impact of the unexpected financial crisis, but regrets that other important amendments are not planned.
As we strive to make migrants integrate, it is especially important to give more support to language courses; integration is a dual process, in which migrants and the host country participate.
Migrants' willingness to learn the language of the host country and take control of their lives does not mean that they are giving up the language or culture of their country of origin.
Learning languages (languages of both the country of birth and residence) must be promoted very early on, even before the primary education stage, with the aim, above all, of encouraging migrants and national minorities like Roma for example, to become involved in European society.
Every child has a right to education.
It is by educating the children of migrants that we will make an important contribution to the integration of all, irrespective of their status.
It is by introducing favourable socioeconomic conditions that we will be able to give greater assistance to migrants, whether they reside legally in Europe, or whether they are destined to be granted legal residence or ultimately sent back to their own country.
We should not create a status for these children whereby they are not educated and are ghettoised merely because their parents are residing illegally.
However, before long we will be discussing what to include in the curriculum, what kind of teacher training we should have and what Member States need to do, in order to 'involve young migrants in a wide range of extracurricular activities'.
I vote in favour of a slimmer but more focused EU.
That is why I voted against this own-initiative report, even though I think that it deals with a very important issue that we need to look into in greater depth at national level.
in writing. - I abstained on this report as a response to our Christian Democrat and Conservative colleagues blocking the oral amendment that would have made it clear that a right to education extends to all migrant children whether or not their parents are in the Union legally or not.
The draft statement contains a number of worthwhile ideas but, with due deference to the issue at hand here, we are of the opinion that this report goes beyond the scope of the European Union's competence.
The principle of subsidiarity requires that this issue be dealt with by the Member States themselves.
For these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues are supportive of a number of the suggestions in this report, including training of teachers and pupils learning the languages of the host country.
However, we believe that education policy is and should remain a Member State competence, and that any improvements and measures with regard to the education of children of migrants should be developed by Member States themselves.
For these reasons, we have abstained on this report.
in writing. - We fully support the notions of anti-discrimination and equality in access, and strongly believe in creating inclusive school systems and inclusive schools.
in writing. - (DA) We voted in favour of the report on educating the children of immigrants, as the report addressed a current and relevant problem.
in writing. - (DE) For years now, the nationalistic and patriotic forces in the EU have been warning of the consequences of unchecked mass immigration.
Concentrations of foreigners of 20, 50 or even 90% show that the multicultural vision has failed.
In Austria, language courses have been offered to parents for years, but here too the level of success leaves a lot to be desired.
It is in the interest of these children and their future that they are reintegrated without any problems related to changing their school environment.
Other Member States in Eastern Europe have faced and are still facing the same phenomenon, which makes it necessary to implement the proposals contained in this report as soon as possible.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the report.
Just as migrant parents are the first victims of class exploitation, their children too are the first victims of class discrimination in education.
In the 2004-2005 academic year, the percentage of immigrants in compulsory education was 10.3% of all children, while in sixth-form colleges it was just 4%.
Immigrants must fight against exploitation and the class barriers to education together with local workers through the class labour movement.
Every child has a right to education.
It is by educating the children of migrants that we will make an important contribution to the integration of all, irrespective of their status.
It is by introducing favourable socioeconomic conditions that we will be able to give greater assistance to migrants, whether they reside legally in Europe, or whether they are destined to be granted legal residence or ultimately sent back to their own country.
We should not create a status for these children whereby they are not educated and are ghettoised merely because their parents are residing illegally.
This also applies in the poorest families and in immigrant families.
I would like to conclude by deploring the fact that the report is completely silent on the role of fathers.
Even in immigrant families mothers and fathers are different but complementary.
Despite some compromises reached between the various political groups within the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on many key points in Mrs Vălean's report, and notwithstanding the political conviction and position that I express on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in my capacity as shadow rapporteur on the report, namely that the free movement of Community citizens is a fundamental EU right, the final version of the report nevertheless contains a series of inappropriate references, in some of the footnotes to recital S, which compel us, as the Italian delegation of the PPE-DE, to vote against this report in the Chamber due to the single block vote stipulated for this type of report.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against this report, because directives of this kind undermine the Member States' capacity to be in control of their own territories and to take the appropriate measures to maintain law and order.
We share the rapporteur's view that the poor transposition of this directive in some Member States should generally be viewed as disappointing and we urge the Member States to implement Directive 2004/38/EC in its entirety, so that the right to free movement can become a reality.
However, we strongly oppose any increase in funds, or allocations to a specific budget line, to support national and local projects intended to integrate citizens and members of their families during their stay in another Member State.
in writing. - I supported the Vălean report on EU citizens' rights.
The right of EU citizens and their families to move and reside across the Unions relates to the fundamental freedoms and it is essential that all Member States apply the law without discrimination.
in writing. - (DA) We have voted against the report on the application of the Residence Directive.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Liberal Party's MEPs have voted against this report.
I voted against Mrs Vălean's report on the application of Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States.
I do not agree with the point where the Member States are requested to adopt the same format of personal identity documents for their own nationals and for European Union citizens from other Member States, notwithstanding the noticeable differences within the documents.
In the light of Article 18 of the EC Treaty, every citizen has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States.
As we all know, four EU Member States still have not opened their labour markets to workers from the countries which acceded in 2004.
As many as 11 EU Member States continue to apply restrictions on their labour markets to citizens of Rumania and Bulgaria.
In accordance with Article 20 of the Treaty, every citizen shall, within the territory of a third country in which the Member State of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any Member State, on the same conditions as the nationals of that State.
The measures which have been announced concerning the strengthening of consular protection in third countries should be implemented as soon as possible, and negotiations with third countries on the lifting of visa requirements should be continued.
Mrs Gacek's report brings to the fore one important aspect: when the European Union was expanded, a considerable increase was noted in the number of European citizens resident outside their state of origin in a context where European citizenship complements the citizenship of Member States, each of which is responsible for regulating this aspect.
The discrepancies noted between Member States on regulating a compulsory visa requirement or on exercising the right to vote in both their country of origin and country of adoption raise a question mark over the equality of rights among all European citizens.
In this specific case, we must bear in mind that the starting point is partnership, whether between Member States and the EU or between regional, local and civil institutions.
Last but not least, Member States must guarantee the right to vote to all EU citizens residing in a Member State other than their original state at the time of legislative elections.
The delegation of Swedish Conservatives in the European Parliament has today voted in favour of Urszula Gacek's (PPE-DE, PL) report on the problems and prospects of European citizenship.
We share the report's overarching idea of improved European citizenship and improved freedom of movement.
This will particularly benefit Portuguese migrants in other Community countries who will in the future enjoy a wide range of rights and obligations, including equal treatment with regard to nationals of the host State.
The most significant development has undoubtedly been the adoption of the Citizenship Directive, which laid down an unconditional right of permanent residence for EU citizens and their families who have lived in the host State for a period of five years.
It is vital that social and political ties between EU citizens continue to be strengthened.
This report flags up a number of areas where people's opportunities to access the advantages of EU freedom of movement could be improved.
Since dismantling borders and greater mobility form the central idea of the EU, I decided to vote in favour of this report, despite some rather unfortunate references to the promotion of 'the European identity' and the establishment of a 'European dimension' in our schools.
For example, the EP: 'welcomes the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon makes it possible for one million Union citizens from different Member States collectively to invite the Commission to submit legislative proposals, and believes that such a legal right will significantly raise awareness of Union citizenship among Europeans'; 'recalls that transparency and democratic participation must be achieved by a variety of forms of partnership among the EU and Member States, regional and local institutions, social partners and civil society'.
Under the guise of strengthening freedom of movement and residence in the European Union for Community nationals, it introduces real equality of treatment between the latter and citizens of third countries.
The objective, beyond the desire to confuse, is very clear: to extend the possibility of acquiring the nationality of a Member State to all persons legally residing in that State in accordance with the right deriving from citizenship of the Union.
For this purpose, they are investing in 'European political parties' and calling on the EU to give them greater political and, more importantly, economic support, so that they can play their role in embellishing and supporting the EU and disorientating and misleading more effectively.
The workers experience the painful consequences of the Treaty of Maastricht and the anti-grassroots policy of the EU on a daily basis.
I decided to vote against Mrs Gacek's report on problems and prospects concerning European citizenship.
I do not actually believe that we need to express too much concern over the low rate of implementation of the directives in force, with particular reference to the directive on free movement, which gives rise to numerous problems relating to freedom of movement and other rights of European Union citizens, because I do not believe the picture described by Mrs Gacek reflects the actual situation in which we find ourselves.
in writing. - I support this Report which modifies the European Regional Development Fund in order to permit and facilitate energy efficiency and renewable energies interventions in the housing sector in all Member States.
The "European economic Recovery Plan" put as priority areas the Lisbon strategy and energy (with a special attention of energy efficiency in buildings).
Under the current regulatory framework, European Regional Development Fund supported interventions in the housing sector, including energy efficiency, but it was reserved only for Member States acceded to the European Union on or after 1 May 2004.
The modification to the regulation seeks to permit and extend this possibility targeting low income households in all Member States.
As recently as November 2008, the European Court of Auditors noted that 11% of the EUR 42 billion which was approved in 2007 in the framework of the EU's cohesion policy should never have been paid out..
The economic and financial crisis that Europe is experiencing must be viewed as an opportunity to adopt measures that will not only help the Member States to recover, but will also increase people's awareness of more sustainable behaviour.
It is therefore necessary for all the Member States and all the regions of the Union, not only those of the new Member States, to be placed in a position where they are able to make investments and carry out projects in these sectors.
For all these reasons, which led me to vote against that report, I cannot fully support this report, which is why I have abstained.
Unless all Member States are in favour of strict visa provisions and a rigorous immigration policy aimed at zero immigration, the result can only be the lowest common denominator.
It is imposing the incorporation in visas of biometric data (prints of all ten fingers) even for children as young as 12 years old.
Any individual improvements made by the European Parliament report do not change the essence, the direction or the rationale of the Visa Code, which is yet another tool for the control and harsher repression of immigrants within the framework of the overall anti-immigration policy of the EU, as expressed in the Pact on Immigration.
Its objective is to simplify visa policy by creating a Community Code on Visas, in order to facilitate the process of visa application, as well as the extension, annulment, revocation and shortening of visas issued.
The Code will unify and specify the principles for issuance of visas, as well as their type and period of validity.
The Community Code on Visas will facilitate the movement not only of EU citizens, but above all of citizens of countries from outside the EU.
I voted in favour of the regulation on a Community Ecolabel scheme, as I believe it is vitally important to encourage the sustainable production and consumption of products.
However, there seem to be several shortcomings in the current system, bearing in mind the experience obtained over the almost 10 years of existence of this certification, which points to the need for more decisive intervention with a view to dealing with certain shortcomings in the system.
I believe that this proposal fits in perfectly with the European Action Plan for Sustainable Production and Consumption and, consequently, with the general aim of developing a voluntary, integrated system that will encourage companies to improve their products with a view to improving product quality in terms not only of diet and consumer protection, but also of the environment, by achieving higher standards of energy efficiency and environment-friendliness.
I therefore congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent job he has done in a context that is so important and crucial for our producers, including the very smallest, because emphasising quality and respect for dietary and ecological principles will help them to stand out and stay afloat in an increasingly global and competitive scenario.
I voted in favour of the report on the voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), as it helps organisations to identify, monitor and measure their impact on the environment and to provide information on this.
EMAS was first introduced in 1995 and was extended in 2001 to both public and private sector organisations.
This new revision is an opportunity to make the scheme more attractive and simpler for small and medium-sized enterprises and is also an attempt to ensure that EMAS has the same level of participation as ISO 14001 currently has (which is the leading Environmental Management System in Europe).
I congratulate Mrs McAvan on her excellent work and declare my support for her report on the voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) by voting in favour of it.
in writing. - (DE) The legal basis used, Article 13(1) of the EC Treaty, is not appropriate considering that, in the opinion of the German Free Democratic Party (FDP), the principle of subsidiarity is not being observed.
We therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - (NL) I emphatically voted against this report.
Consequently, I voted in favour of Amendment 81 which observes that the relevant proposal for a directive seriously erodes the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against this report which is one of many that are steeped in political correctness, if only because this proposal violates the EU's principle of subsidiarity and involves a huge amount of red tape.
in writing. - This report aims to protect those who are unjustly marginalised and ensure that they have proper and adequate means to address their situation.
It is important that we continue to support these groups and their work.
Ms Buitenweg's report clearly demarks certain areas to remain part of the competency of each Member State, but progress on a European scale is important to achieve a social and more just Europe.
I regard it as vital for legislation to prohibit direct and indirect discrimination, multiple discrimination and discrimination by association based on gender, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation or gender in a range of areas such as social protection, education and access to and supply of goods and services, such as housing, transport, telecommunications and health.
My only reservation is with regard to Amendment 39, part of which argues that freedom of speech should not be compromised, even in cases of harassment.
in writing. - (FR) The defence of the rights and the protection of people who are victims of discrimination must be a priority for the EU, but this can only be effective and useful if it guarantees legal certainty for the persons involved whilst avoiding a disproportionate burden for the economic players targeted.
The text as adopted today, whilst satisfactory in certain respects - especially in relation to the fight against discrimination against disabled people - the vague concepts it contains, the legal uncertainties that it maintains and the superfluous requirements that it introduces make it legally impractical and therefore ineffective in its application.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this report especially since it promotes in a very forceful and concrete way the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, age or sexual orientation.
The defence of the rights and the protection of people who are victims of discrimination must be a priority for the EU, but this can only be effective and useful if it guarantees legal certainty for the persons involved whilst avoiding a disproportionate burden for the economic players targeted.
In this sensitive area, it is essential to remain vigilant as regards respect for the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States and to ensure that Parliament adheres strictly to what the legal basis at European level allows.
The text as adopted today, whilst satisfactory in certain respects - especially in relation to the fight against discrimination against disabled people - the vague concepts it contains, the legal uncertainties that it maintains and the superfluous requirements that it introduces make it legally impractical and therefore ineffective in its application.
In these circumstances, and although I support the objective of the directive, I have decided to abstain on this text in the final vote.
in writing. - I congratulate my colleague Ms Buitenweg in gaining majority support for her report in this House.
Discrimination on the basis of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation has no place in European society.
Since 2000, the European Union has continually promoted equality, and this increasingly in the broadest possible sense of the word: equality between men and women, between nationals and foreigners, between the sick and the healthy, between Catholics, Muslims, Buddhists and other religions, equality of access to education, to health, equality for one's sexual orientation, and so on.
Here then is a new directive that, under the guise of the legitimate fight against discrimination towards disabled people, is intended to regulate, or rather shackle, almost every area in which the freedom of choice, be it contractual or otherwise, still exists.
In effect, these new European measures will not only increase European bureaucracy and burdens, but will also be a real threat to other fundamental freedoms and rights including, in particular, freedom of worship, of association and of expression, and freedom of the press.
The principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of political or religious beliefs, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability, is one of the founding principles of the European Union.
The reality of daily life shows that much progress remains to be made in the Member States.
However, I am unable to subscribe to the pathways and options described in this report.
I am in favour of amendment 87 because I think that taxpayers in every country should ensure that the disabled are provided with such finances as allow them to be considered fully credible borrowers by the credit market.
As a matter of fact, I voted in favour of the report in its entirety.
in writing. - (NL) As the Dutch Christian Democrats (CDA) have always strongly argued for rules to ensure the equal treatment of people irrespective of their religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, we are in favour of the spirit of this directive.
However, legislation in this area must be well thought-out.
in writing. - This is a major report with important consequences for EU citizens.
It is difficult to argue against the principle of equal treatment, yet this report has proven hugely contentious in this House, not just between groups, but indeed within political groups too.
I voted against Amendment 81 to totally reject this report.
The European Disability Forum, in particular strongly argues that we need EU legislation to protect people with disabilities against discrimination.
I voted against Amendment 28 in order to secure the reference to national law on family or family status, including reproductive rights.
This amendment was rejected by the House and therefore I abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - (NL) Today, I, along with the eurosceptic part of my group, voted in favour of the Buitenweg report on equal treatment.
Equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is a principle that goes well beyond Community law: it is a human being's inalienable right.
I was therefore forced to vote against Mrs Buitenweg's report on the proposal for a Council directive.
I believe that the sole aim of this directive is to control aspects in respect of which the European Union should already be very active and involved.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Kathalijne Maria Buitenweg's report on equal treatment of people irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
The fact that 226 MEPs voted against the report was a negative surprise and a clear sign of danger, which cannot be ignored.
Tolerance is one of the cornerstones of the European Union and combating discrimination of any kind must be our top priority.
The defence of the rights and the protection of people who are victims of discrimination must be a priority for the EU, but this can only be effective and useful if it guarantees legal certainty for the persons involved, whilst avoiding a disproportionate burden for the economic players targeted.
The text adopted today is satisfactory in certain respects, especially in relation to the fight against discrimination against disabled people, but the vague concepts it contains, the legal uncertainties that it maintains and the superfluous requirements that it introduces make it legally impractical and therefore ineffective in its application.
Discrimination on the basis of ethnic or racial origin is forbidden both in the labour market and outside it.
Discrimination should be defined in the same way regardless of what kind it is.
I fully agree with the rapporteur, Mrs Buitenweg, and I thank her for a very good and comprehensive report.
in writing. - (NL) As a lawyer, I cannot possibly accept the imposition of a reversal of the burden of proof at European level, as proposed in the new anti-discrimination directive.
That is why I have voted in favour of the Buitenweg report as a whole.
I voted with the PPE-DE against the non-discrimination directive because it would have a negative impact on EU citizens.
The lobby made a hostage of genuine discrimination when it added sexual orientation and religion or belief.
in writing. - (NL) This resolution is rather unfavourable, and we should applaud the fact that it makes political dialogue expressly dependent on progress in terms of human rights and internal freedom.
In this area, the regime still leaves a great deal to be desired, particularly in terms of freedom of speech and opinion, the freedom of the press and the freedom of the democratic opposition and the media.
It is far too early to be entering into any kind of normal dialogue with Belarus.
It should lead to an improvement of the situation in those situations which, for various reasons, require improvement.
We expect, therefore, a review of the decisions made in the case of the conscription of the young activists Franak Viačorka, Ivan Šyla and Zmiter Fedaruk.
We also call for recognition of the authorities of the Union of Poles in Belarus and its Chairwoman, Angelika Borys, who were elected on 15 March 2009.
We would like the Belarusian authorities to order a review of the sentences passed on 11 participants in a demonstration which took place in January 2008.
If we are committed to building the future of Europe, we must not allow historical facts to be ignored, or the memory of the tragic moments in our history to be neglected.
I would also like European society to know more about Polish heroes, such as Cavalry Captain Witold Pilecki.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted in favour of this even-handed resolution, which condemns totalitarianism in every shape or form.
This is why I abstained in the case of Amendment 19.
I voted in favour of the resolution on totalitarian regimes.
I believe that Europe will not be united unless it is able to reach a common view of its history and conduct an honest and thorough debate on the crimes committed by Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and Communist regimes in the past century.
The motion for a resolution submitted by the five largest groups in Parliament contains many important perspectives on European history over the last 100 years.
We did vote in favour of the resolution as a whole, however.
They are the same people who are rehabilitating in their own countries those who collaborated with the barbarism of the Nazis, for example.
In Portugal the Portuguese Communist Party fought more than anyone else for liberty, for democracy, for peace, for human rights, for decent living conditions for the Portuguese people, for the liberty of the peoples colonised by fascism, and for the achievements enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is 33 years old today.
The PASOK parliamentary group voted against the motion for a resolution because it compares Nazism to communism in an unacceptable manner.
I opt for a clean break from all attempts to achieve political goals by means of violence, incarceration, intimidation and other forms of oppression.
The joint motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, which was also supported by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament in an indescribably vulgar manner, equates fascism with communism, Nazi fascist regimes with socialist regimes.
European integration was a direct response to the war and the terror caused by totalitarian regimes on the continent of Europe.
I firmly believe that Europe will never be united if it does not manage to achieve a united view on its own history and I have therefore voted for the resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism.
We must acknowledge communism and Nazism as a common inheritance and hold a specialist debate on all of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in the last century.
We owe this to our younger generations who no longer grow up under such regimes and whose awareness of totalitarianism in all its forms has become alarmingly superficial and inadequate, even in the five years since the expansion of 2004.
Even today many people do not know about the regimes that terrorised their fellow citizens in Central and Eastern Europe for 40 years and divided them from democratic Europe with the Iron Curtain and the Berlin Wall.
In 2009 we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the fall of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe and the fall of the Berlin Wall and I therefore believe that all EU governments should take this opportunity to declare August 23 European Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
I intend to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism.
I firmly believe that Europe must be made more aware of crimes committed by totalitarian and non-democratic regimes, because I believe that we cannot consolidate European integration without promoting the preservation of our historical memory, provided that all aspects of Europe's past are acknowledged.
As politicians, awareness of the danger to our freedoms and our very lives is something we must all strive to remind current and future generations.
This is an important element in our history.
That is why we decided to abstain from today's vote on the joint motion for a resolution by the four political groups, including the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on European conscience and totalitarianism.
This is why our group is refusing to participate in the vote on this resolution.
Condemnation of totalitarian regimes that adopted the ideologies of Nazism or communism should be only the first step towards complete condemnation of all forms of intolerance, fanaticism and ignorance that have suppressed and continue to suppress fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and nations.
I voted in favour of the joint resolution on the role of culture in the development of European regions because I believe that the EU must give stronger backing to cultural projects.
I feel that the strategies for regional and local development which incorporate culture, creativity and the arts make a major contribution to improving the quality of life in Europe's regions and cities through promoting cultural diversity, democracy, participation and intercultural dialogue.
I believe that Europe's cultural spirit is an important way of bringing Europeans closer together in a manner which fully respects their different cultural and linguistic identities.
Culture is a political area which falls under the political responsibility of individual Member States.
This resolution discusses issues which lie outside the European Union's competence.
The cultural traditions that have developed here over the centuries comprise an unusual variety of forms, types and variants of folklore.
For example in my own region of Stará Ľubovňa in the north east of Slovakia you will find Slovak, German, Ruthene, Goral and Roma cultures.
It is a pity that funding for cultural projects is being cut back every year, making it very difficult for local authorities to sustain these remarkable and unique cultural traditions.
I voted against this motion for a resolution on the role of culture in the development of European regions.
Although I accept that the proposed initiatives are prompted by the admirable aim of promoting regional and local development within the EU, I do not believe they are enough to guarantee the achievement of such aims.
There are, however, areas of concern about our relationship with Russia: and if we share common interests, I am not convinced that we share common values.
Our partnership with Russia must therefore be strong and durable, but it cannot be unconditional.
I voted against Mr Onyszkiewicz's report with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the new EU-Russia agreement.
in writing. - Russia has to make up its mind: does it aspire to the EU's common values or not?
However we cannot allow Russia to bully its neighbours and use its hydrocarbon resources as a diplomatic weapon.
in writing. - I am taking this opportunity to fully support this report which is being proposed so as to further health protection of EU citizens but I'd also like to take this opportunity to say that in Malta and Gozo certain areas of the basic health system are in shambles.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report specifically because it urges the Commission to utilise current scientific evidence to protect EU citizens from the potential hazards of electromagnetic fields (EMFs).
The 1999 recommendation requires an update within five years of it being published that takes into account ongoing research.
I requested in my 2008 letter to Commissioner Kyprianou that the original recommendation be revised, as it was then four years overdue for revisions, but there have still been no updates.
A 2007 European survey indicates that the majority of EU citizens feel that public authorities have not done an adequate job of informing them on ways to protect themselves from EMFs.
I support further research into the effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields on public health and hope that the 1999 recommendation will be reviewed and updated.
I voted for the resolution on health concerns associated with electromagnetic fields, as this is an issue that directly affects the entire European public, which is exposed to electromagnetic fields both at home and in the workplace.
I voted against the own-initiative report by Mrs Ries.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ries's report on health concerns associated with electromagnetic fields.
in writing. - I support this report which calls for further research to be carried out on electromagnetic fields emitted from devices such as radios, TVs, microwaves, mobile phones and high-voltage power lines.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ries's report on health concerns associated with electromagnetic fields.
I therefore agree with her in calling on the Commission to adopt a clear policy on electromagnetic waves, although I am aware of the Member States' exclusive powers in certain areas including, for example, waves associated with mobile phones.
The report points to many major challenges facing European schools and contains a number of good recommendations.
For example, the recommendation that students in schools and universities should be better prepared for an increasingly flexible labour market in which employers' needs are subject to rapid change.
However, we object to a single paragraph in the report which attributes increased violence in schools to factors such as growing class differences and increasing cultural diversity in the Member States of the EU.
The report entitled 'Better schools: an agenda for European cooperation', to which I have lent my full support, forms part of this objective.
It insists in particular on the need to guarantee equal access for all young European citizens to high-quality education that enables them to acquire skills and sound knowledge.
That much I agree with.
I therefore voted against both the own-initiative report and the alternative resolution.
The draft statement contains a number of worthwhile ideas, but schools are a political area which should fall under the political responsibility of individual Member States.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Schmitt report on better schools.
Nonetheless, the educational experience of children across the EU can only be enhanced by greater European cooperation and education systems across the continent must adapt to keep up with modern challenges.
At the same time it would clarify that it disagrees with paragraph 15 of the text and the link which it makes between all levels of education and the 'flexibility' of the labour market on the basis of employers' requirements.
The report deserves to be endorsed, but one cannot help feeling that the common values which the rapporteur sees as the foundation of educational reform do not exhaust all the factors which have shaped Europe over the centuries.
Subparagraph 17 refers to the full and multi-faceted development of the individual, cultivating respect for human rights and social justice, lifelong learning for the purposes of personal development and professional advancement, the protection of the environment and personal and collective wellbeing.
Although I agree in principle with the general purposes of the report and with the fact that European education systems must be reviewed to improve their quality, I do not consider that this report identifies solutions that are effective in promoting a real improvement in the quality of teaching and the prerogatives of school as a place of communication and socialisation.
We should continually work towards improving conditions for learning and creating equal opportunities among children and young people.
I think attention should also be paid to young people who want to study in other Member States of the European Union.
