I voted for this resolution and welcome the Commission initiative to launch a consultation procedure on the best form of Community action with a view to providing a framework for cross-border aspects of health-care. (MT) I would like to explain my vote on the resolution on spring hunting in Malta.
In addition, what should be kept in mind is that, during accession negotiations between Malta and the European Union, the European Commission recognised - in writing and not in words - an agreement whereby Malta could use a derogation to allow spring hunting. (DE) Mr President, unlike the previous speaker, I believe this resolution on bird hunting in Malta is a very important resolution.
I would also like to state that in the first roll-call vote, I voted for paragraph 2 of the Voggenhuber report by mistake, but I wanted to vote against, so please record this fact.
However, I am allowed only 200 words, which I shall use to condemn the resolution's silence concerning the unacceptable boycott of the Palestinian Authority (PA) proclaimed by the Israeli Government and the United States Administration following the Palestinian elections in January 2006.
The EU joined in the boycott and also suspended its financial aid, so exacerbating the already serious humanitarian situation with which the Palestinian people is confronted as a result of Israeli occupation and aggression.
in writing. - (EL) In the 12 years since the Barcelona Declaration, the peoples of the Mediterranean have become poorer and more desperate, while some areas have been at war.
in writing. (IT) The three main objectives set by the Barcelona Conference of 1995 - namely the creation of a free trade area by 2010 between the European Union and its African and Asian partners; an area of peace and stability and the development of free, democratic societies - have not yet been achieved.
UKIP have supported this amendment because it states very clearly the factual position that the Constitutional Treaty has been rejected and therefore should be abandoned.
I have supported this amendment because it states very clearly the factual position that the Constitutional Treaty has been rejected and therefore should be abandoned.
It is crucial that we do everything we can to develop a genuine 'fundamental rights culture' in the European Union, by creating a general system for monitoring fundamental rights and by actively promoting those rights, and by intervening in the event that Member States violate them or fail to uphold them properly.
in writing. (SV) The report points in the right direction but contains a couple of unhelpful proposals, for example in paragraph 2, all of which conflicts with the mandate we have from our electorate.
The report clearly shows that a European Constitution is unnecessary for the protection of human rights in the Member States.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has a very particular and partisan conception of the definition of fundamental rights.
In particular I am pleased that the report looks at ways of increasing the role of the Parliament in the defence of fundamental rights and in ensuring EU legislation conforms with international human right standards.
in writing. - (FR) The European Union is currently going through an institutional crisis.
in writing. (SV) The report contains a lot of drivel about the EU constantly having to be developed more and more, and a number of helpful wordings about the Constitution and about more power for the new agency.
in writing. (PL) I voted in favour of the report on compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Commission's legislative proposals methodology for systematic and rigorous monitoring.
in writing. - (FR) Making the European Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding is politically dishonest and irresponsible in practice.
The only legal instrument in relation to human rights in Europe is the European Convention on Human Rights.
Our European super-agency on human rights is the European Court of Human Rights.
The report talks, for example, of the strategic external policy aspects of an agreement and of giving Parliament more power in relation to issues of both trade and external policy.
in writing. (SV) Free trade is the most important agent of prosperity in the world, and the more countries that participate in it, the more the prosperity of those countries will grow.
The incorporation of large parts of South and Central America into a free trade area with the EU would therefore represent a big step towards prosperity and the eradication of poverty.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I believe that the disappearance of people, which has a dramatic impact on everybody, on the people and on their families and friends, is unacceptable under any circumstances, and particularly in European territory.
I am also delighted with the removal, on 9 March, of the wall which for decades separated 'the last divided capital in Europe'.
The economic and social development of islands is very important and requires special measures such as the flexibility requested in terms of competition regulations.
I therefore voted in favour of this report. (PL) Mr President, I welcome the fact that the European Union is acting along the right lines by increasing the role of local authorities in our cooperation with individual countries, in particular with third countries.
Empowering local authorities to act in their own right in the framework of our development policy therefore deserves our full support both now and in the future.
