Practices such as those mentioned by the honourable Member in her question deprive European citizens of the rights and opportunities offered to them by the single market.
The Commission is currently working with Member States to make sure that Article 20 of the Services Directive is implemented on time and is effectively enforced by national authorities and the courts.
In addition, the Commission published a report focusing on the cross-border aspects of e-commerce on 5 March.
The result is a fragmented on-line internal market.
Member of the Commission. - I would agree with Baroness Ludford that, 50 years after the foundation of the EC and knowing what the founding principles of the whole operation are, this discrimination can take place.
But the main reason for putting forward the Services Directive was in recognition that we had not successfully achieved in the area of services what we had achieved in the area of goods.
Therefore, when the Services Directive has to be implemented by the end of this year, Article 20 specifies that any different treatment, such as the one outlined by Baroness Ludford, has to be directly justified by objective reasons.
This follows on from the communication on joint programming in research that was adopted on 15 July 2008.
However, the project finished at the end of 2008 and there is now a need to evaluate the options for taking this work forward.
The open method of coordination (OMC) in the social field provides a framework for EU Member States to reform their social protection systems on the basis of policy exchanges and mutual learning.
The sharp economic downturn in a number of countries in this region can indeed have an adverse impact on the economies of the same European Union Member States, in particular those whose commercial banks have extended, often through their local subsidiary, significant credits to enterprises and households in the countries of the region.
It is a first step towards a Western Balkans Investment Framework that will also include investments in other socioeconomic sectors, like SMEs or energy efficiency.
Yet here, too, the EU provides substantial technical assistance through the national and regional programmes of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument in support of the joint action plans under the European neighbourhood policy.
This instrument has provided EUR 71 million in grants in 2008, which underpinned large infrastructure projects worth around EUR 2.74 billion.
Let me now say a few words about the support to the commercial banks in the region being provided by specialised financial institutions.
I should like to ask you if you believe that these grants of EUR 71 million for our partners in Eastern Europe suffice.
So the honest answer would be, I think, that all of us there are in deep trouble, and that certainly one has to keep a close eye on what is happening in this region, because we are highly interconnected with them and many European countries have deep trade relations with this region.
Concerning the possibility of macro-financial assistance, there are many countries among the countries which have the potential to become Member States, which are candidates or potential candidates, which have requested this.
Article 61 of the EEA Agreement is closely modelled on Article 87 of the EC Treaty.
Under Protocol 26 of the EEA Agreement, it is entrusted with equivalent powers to those of the European Commission in the field of state aid.
While remedies for incompatible aid are harder to obtain in Swiss cases, the Commission still endeavours to apply the provisions of the 1972 free trade agreement whenever possible and necessary.
For example, on 13 February 2007, it took a decision concluding that three Swiss cantonal tax regimes were incompatible with the 1972 agreement, and it is currently negotiating with the Swiss authorities in order to find a satisfactory solution to this issue.
Subject: Discrimination against Polish shipyards in the light of the Commission's decision to approve state aid for the motor vehicle industry Having propped up their banks with tens of billions of euros in aid, several Member State governments have now decided to support the motor vehicle industry.
The Gdynia and Szczecin yards have benefited from state support for many years at the expense of other shipyards in Europe.
Member of the Commission. - The current EU competition policy towards vertical agreements is very supportive of Internet sales, and I am sure that you are aware of that, Mr President.
Mr Rübig asked what we can do in the present situation.
Member of the Commission. - I will do my utmost.
The most relevant for SMEs is the new possibility for the granting of EUR 500 000 per undertaking to cover investments and/or working capital over a period of two years.
That is a new temporary compatible aid - not by the way a new de minimis of EUR 500 000 - and provided that it fulfils the specific conditions, this new aid is declared compatible by the Commission under Article 87(3)(b) of the Treaty, in other words under a clearly very exceptional legal basis which is directly linked to the current financial crisis.
That new aid can be cumulated with the de minimis, but within the limit of EUR 500 000 for the period 2008-2010.
Finally, while all measures adopted under this temporary framework still need to be notified to the Commission, specific arrangements to ensure a fast adoption of the Commission's decisions have been put in place.
So they are quick, effective and efficient. (EL) Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her truly detailed reply.
The Commission would also like to point out that the structural funds - and that was what I was touching upon in an earlier question when we were dealing with the Polish shipyards - and in particular the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, can be used by the Member States to cushion the social consequences of job losses, and furthermore the use of the European globalisation fund can be considered under certain conditions.
Second, steps have been taken to upgrade the BONUS programme into a major Community research initiative under Article 169 of the Treaty - one of the questions later on is also related to this issue.
Third, steps have been taken to progressively replace all existing marine ERA-NETs with one integrated marine ERA-NET.
The implementation of the European Union strategy for marine and maritime research under the current financial perspective will ensure the promotion in the coming years of marine and maritime research at Community level, through the framework programme instruments.
It is still premature for any assessment on how and if the Member States will follow these recommendations.
Member of the Commission. - Neighbouring countries of course can be included.
In addition, the first call for proposals on eco-innovation pilot and market replication projects was published in 2008 to carry out actions in the fields of recycling, the food and drink sector, buildings and green business.
More importantly, this programme aims at opening up EU-wide markets for such innovations that are supplied by SMEs all across the European Union.
I have a supplementary question to ask: can you tell us how many jobs have been created in the Member States of the European Union within the framework of projects carried out under programmes implemented via small and medium-sized enterprises?
We are pretty sure - I am pretty sure also, when I move among the researchers, among the SMEs, when I hear the reactions and when I hear their emotions and how well they are actually using the programme, then I am sometimes much more satisfied than when I hear that we are a bit too bureaucratic, and so on.
But I think that we have to look at that.
On the question of the new Member States - and that is really an interesting question, because we are, of course, following that quite closely - I can say that they are quite active, that they are applying a lot; on average their success rates are slightly higher than the success rates of more developed Member States, which I think is normal, because somehow the strength of institutions is in the countries which have a longer and stronger tradition in R&amp;D and of course normally are also stronger.
If you look at how much the Member States - the new Member States - are investing in their R&amp;D in global European investment, and how much they are getting from FP7, the proportion of the latter is higher than they are actually investing at home.
So these connections are very clear, and my advice would be: use all possible instruments to strengthen capacity at home; use - in smart ways - structural and cohesion funds, where they have committed the amount of framework programme actually for the purpose of that - EUR 50 billion is committed - and use that money so that in the future they would help themselves at home and they would help themselves also in the possibility to compete globally, because the world is global.
Subject: BONUS-169 The BONUS project (Baltic Sea marine research funding organisation) is a very important means of grouping national and regional research programmes to support sustainable development in the Baltic Sea region, with a view to coordinating, developing and implementing them by means of joint cooperation activities.
Member of the Commission. - Mr Paleckis, I am convinced that the BONUS Article 169 initiative is expected to substantially improve the effectiveness of environmental and sustainable development policies for the entire Baltic region.
We are making every effort to table a legislative proposal as soon as we possibly can in 2009.
The Commission recognises the need to create a clearer access to the EU for organised civil society as well as for individual citizens and we have a long and healthy tradition of interaction with civil society organisations, which started more than 30 years ago.
In Member States, all of our representations have been mobilised to organised elections-linked activities and to mobilise all of our multipliers, and almost 500 Europe Direct information relays are organising events to disseminate promotional material and provide a discussion platform for candidates.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I doubt that we will have time to set up a particular service at this late stage and before the elections.
We will make sure that this is made available in all official languages and in all Member States.
So I think that this can be of help both to the candidates and other stakeholders.
