Sustainable mobility (debate) The next item is the report by Etelka Barsi-Pataky, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on Keep Europe moving - Sustainable mobility for our continent rapporteur. - (HU) Parliament welcomes the mid-term review of the fundamental document of Europe's transport policy, the White Paper.
Second, the majority in Parliament is of the opinion that we need to shape our transport policy more realistically than was done in the past.
As you wanted at the time of adopting the new Eurovignette directive, the Commission will present in 2008 a methodology for the internalisation of external costs.
The Commission is in the process of assessing the impact of the European modular system.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks go to the rapporteur, Mrs Barsi-Pataky, for the work she has done.
For example, emissions from road traffic have increased by more than 25% since 1990; the figure is more than 50% in the case of air traffic.
Fair competition between the different transport modes also makes this necessary.
According to the World Health Organisation, every year over 300 000 Europeans die before their time from air pollution, the main cause of which in cities is car traffic.
She has managed, in a very short, but accurate and perceptive report, to give an overview of the key priorities for Europe's future transport policy.
This should include strict rules for HGVs up to 44 tonnes and transport infrastructure safety management.
She has achieved a good balance between the unquestionable objectives, such as the modal shift in favour of modes that are still under-developed and which offer great environmental advantages, such as railways and inland waterways, while at the same time being able to interweave it with a new notion of co-modality that gave it a touch of realism that was more acceptable to all of the actors in the sector and which reduced many of the pressures that were preventing us from moving forward in a more reasonable manner.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Mr President, Mr Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, what we are examining is an excellent report, which enables Parliament to understand, support and align itself with the work that the Commission must carry out in this last brief period of its activities.
This merely underlines once again the historic strategies, which all in all are a credit to the European transport policy.
on behalf of Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, the report has a promising title: 'Keep Europe moving - sustainable mobility for our continent'.
The clearest statement in Mrs Barsi-Pataky's report is in paragraph 14: 'the mid-term review of the Transport White Paper 2001 has not laid down long-term objectives nor given answers'.
The EU's transport policy is riddled with inconsistencies.
By way of conclusion, I should like to thank Mrs Barsi-Pataky for her efforts and congratulate her on this result. (DE) Mr President, the Commission's mid-term review rightly highlights a number of common transport policy successes, notably the constant improvements in incorporating transport policy priorities in other policy areas: the internal market for one, and environmental policy for another.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report. (DA) Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Barsi-Pataky, who has produced a skilfully worded report with some very clear messages.
I also wish to thank the Commission and Commissioner Barrot for their evaluation of the White Paper, involving a lot of constructive new thinking about the EU's transport policy.
Yet transport plays a vital role in our economy.
To close, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Barsi-Pataky, for her excellent and thorough report on the subject and for always being open to discussion. (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
I shall not elaborate on the international dimension.
Henceforth, we are going to pursue all these efforts.
I thank Parliament and particularly Mrs Barsi-Pataky, because I think we are engaged in a transport policy that really takes into account future requirements, which looks not to the past but very much to the future, with this double objective: to enable mobility such as the Lisbon objectives require and, at the same time, to ensure that this mobility remains compatible with the demands of environmental protection and the fight against global warming.
I thank Parliament very much for its support and, personally, I feel very committed to these efforts towards sustainable mobility.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 11 July 2007.
