in writing. (SV) I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the position put forward by the June List on 27 September of this year.
When it comes to the total of EUR 259 million to be provided by way of financial support to encourage economic development within the Turkish Cypriot community, the following question arises: is there yet an overall solution designed to promote peaceful and stable development on Cyprus at a time when the EU is getting involved in this situation and contributing significant financial resources to Cyprus?
in writing. - (FR) The European Union is South Africa's largest trading partner and the biggest provider of development aid to that country.
If this agreement is important for Europe, it is vital to Réunion, as we have everything to gain from the stability of our South African neighbour and partner. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to Mrs Isler Béguin's report on the Financial Instrument for the Environment, I would like to express my extreme concern for the environment regarding pensioners in Italy.
Now we have an opportunity for LIFE + to become even more valuable, in particular to the smaller and newer Member States, which could receive a more equal spread of budget over the period 2007-2013 of €2 billion.
in writing. (PT) The Council common position, to which this report relates, is substantially different from the Commission's original proposal in 2004.
The guarantee of cofinancing the Natura 2000 network via the structural funds will not enable it to meet all of its needs.
The LIFE+ Programme and its predecessors are the main funding instrument for the EU's environmental projects.
Important as these areas are, such a requirement would limit Member States' ability to allocate funds for projects addressing their own environmental priorities such as climate change.
in writing. (SV) I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the June List's rejection at first reading in September 2005.
The June List's answer is clear: this is a matter for the Member States.
The June List is of the opinion that cultural policy should, in principle, be handled by the Member States.
I have therefore voted against the amendments in this report.
I voted in favour, even though I would have preferred this report to have provided not only for civil protection, but also for the protection of pensioners.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report.
The protection of the individual and solidarity between Member States are fundamental principles of the European Union.
Yes, the initial responsibility for civil protection falls to the Member States, but that does not mean carrying on regardless. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. (SV) We welcome the Commission's proposal to improve the civil protection mechanism introduced in 2001.
One transnational civil protection mechanism may help in dealing with natural disasters.
However, it cannot and must not replace the extension and reinforcement of independent mechanisms in the Member States.
in writing. (SV) I am opposed to the Commission's proposal that the Member States should make use of each other's military capabilities.
I am voting in favour of the report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how can there be any transparency in Europe when, in one of the 25 Member States - namely Italy - 500 000 pensioners who have worked in Switzerland and returned to Italy are paid pensions equal to 25% of the amount paid to Italian workers who work in Italy?
I voted in favour of the Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou report on the role and place of women immigrants in the European Union.
In this instance, too, I would have preferred the report to have included something in relation to the position of the 260 000 or so Italian women who have emigrated to Switzerland in order to work and support their families and who, once back in Italy, have drawn a pension equal to 25% of the amount that they would have received if they had worked under the same conditions in Italy, and this despite the mutual agreement between Italy and Switzerland.
in writing. - (FR) The report devoted to immigrant women is alarming.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against this report in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality because I consider paragraphs 6 and 7 to be unacceptable and inadmissible.
