The shaping, final shaping, of the Council's decision by June 2008 is one of the priority tasks of our Presidency.
This plan defines all the key points which should be resolved if the decision on Europol is to be enforced from 1 January 2010.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian Presidency, whom I thank, has just said that the Commission's proposal, of December 2006, which aims to replace the Europol Convention with a Council decision, is one of their priorities, and that they hope to secure political agreement as soon as possible.
I also support Europol having a Community footing, requested in Amendment 5.
There are many, but I would particularly like to mention Amendments 13, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24 and 25, and can agree with the objective.
Consequently, at this stage, making a provision of this kind in the proposal for a decision on Europol would unfortunately not be sufficient to grant a wider investigation coordination role to Europol officials, legally and systematically - a role, ladies and gentlemen, that I would personally like, of course.
However, I also believe that Parliament cannot make its work dependent on the anticipated entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, or suspend it on this basis.
First amending the Council's proposal in order to give Europol a specific framework for the protection of personal data and, with this in mind, I would like to highlight the need for the Council to adopt the proposal for a framework decision on this as soon as possible.
I would like to finish with sincere thanks to my colleagues from all the political groups for their valuable contributions, and, in particular, I would like to mention the negotiating efforts of Mr Moraes, Mr Alvaro and Mr Fava, and the contributions of Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Catania.
We now call upon the Council to sit down at the table with us immediately and come to a mutual agreement on the financing of Europol, because one thing is certain: everything we decide tomorrow applies only under the proviso of the result of the Council negotiations in accordance with Article 47 of the interinstitutional agreement of May 2006.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats I expressly support the proposal that the Council has put forward for integrating Europol into the framework of the European institutions, on several grounds.
Firstly, because we will have a new legal foundation, which will save us lengthy ratification procedures and therefore make it possible for Europol to adapt quickly and flexibly to new situations, and secondly, because not only will the protocols be adopted, but jurisdiction will be extended to encompass preparatory data and data on procurement of funds, because the operating appropriations are being increased, because the funding comes from the EU budget and therefore greater independence is established for Europol as well and better monitoring opportunities are provided for us as Parliament and last but not least, because in future, data protection will also continue to be safeguarded at a very high level.
Our group wanted to strengthen the supervisory powers specified in the proposal into genuine parliamentary supervision, not just restricted to budgetary powers, of course, and we wanted to strengthen the provisions on personal data protection and data security, particularly in the absence of a good framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, which is still taking its time in coming.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Mr Vice-President, Minister, before I begin I should like to thank Mr°Díaz de Mera García Consuegra for his constructive and outstanding cooperation.
The same applies to the judicial scrutiny of Europol.
It is inconceivable that a police authority in Europe should be able to act without its actions being subject to judicial review.
I would like to make it clear to the Council, however, that support for the Díaz de Mera García Consuegra report is not synonymous with support for the Council decision, because there are still some differences between the two, particularly regarding data protection.
The report rules out the unrestrained use of databases, as data may only be used for specific purposes, must be subject to judicial control in the Member States, and may only be processed on a case-by-case basis.
Not everyone in my group is a staunch supporter of a strong police force, but any improvement in judicial and democratic control can count on our strong support.
I believe that this is emblematic of the real need to combat crime on an international basis, and one way to do so is by putting in place European police resources.
I believe that Europol can accomplish this job, but I have some doubts about whether transforming Europol into an agency can immediately salvage it.
We have a duty to evaluate Europol's activities from 1994 to today, and I believe that we will probably also need to review its specific mission, because I think that its priorities ought to be tackling drug trafficking, money-laundering and transnational Mafia organisations.
Parliament should have supervisory powers - this is the case for all national parliaments, which have supervisory powers over the national police - and I believe that the European Parliament should have supervisory powers over a European agency whose key tasks are policing and combating international crime.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, the rapporteur was, I understand, the Director-General of Spain's police between 2002 and 2004.
They are but the latest manifestation of super statehood for the EU - all under the framework of the Constitution and none of it with the consent of the peoples of Europe because of the conspiracy amongst EU leaders to subvert democracy and refuse referendums. (PT) Vice-President Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, in 1998 the European Parliament rejected all the initiatives presented to it when consulted on matters of detail relating to Europol.
The European Parliament has an obligation to show its support for the Commission's initiative to make Europol an EU agency.
With the agency proposed by the rapporteur, however, there is an urgent need for the introduction of clear principles for the democratic monitoring of Europol and personal data protection. - (EL) Madam President, in its proposal for the establishment of a European police force, the Commission is seeking to transform Europol from a body based on inter-state agreement into an institutional body of the European Union.
Because there is no real possibility of controlling the inaccessible citadel of Europol or of restricting its enforcement activities.
Almost everyone has agreed to participate in Schengen.
Well, police resources have to be increased perhaps by 1-2% of GDP at national level in order to roll back this phenomenon.
Indeed, the intention is to replace the Europol Convention concluded in 1995 between the Member States with a Council decision converting the agency from an intergovernmental body into a European Union agency financed from the Community budget and applying the Staff Regulations of officials of the European Communities.
The reasons given for this radical change of status are the extension of the mandate of Europol's activities beyond just organised crime and the Member States' inability to meet these new and very extensive objectives adequately.
The reality is that our national and European leaders are in the process of imposing on us institutional reforms that all work towards a more deeply supranational and bureaucratic model.
We want this Community Europol to have a greater presence in places where we need it - in the Balkans, combating the organised mafia - and not in staffrooms or offices.
It is within this context, then, that I express my full support for the approach mapped out by the rapporteur, and I hope that this debate will be the first stage in the formation of a genuine European Community police service capable of dealing with problems. - (EL) Madam President, once again we must salute the development of this large police body known as Europol.
I salute Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra's very careful work.
You do not have to be Sherlock Holmes to figure out that, if an organisation is established in 1995 and its conventions are amended three times from 2000 to 2003 and those changes enter into force only in the year 2007, the organisation is not working.
We need more flexibility and I think that is what this report proposes.
There is nothing more conservative in this world than an interior ministry or a police establishment and I think we have seen it with EUROPOL.
The more free movement you have, the more Schengen you have, the more international crime you have, the more we need cooperation on a European level and I think this report is a good step in that direction. (ES) Madam President, a small clarification.
Of course we need good cooperation between police and security services.
Indeed, in my experience at EUROPOL - and I am probably one of the few Members of this House who has been to EUROPOL on a number of occasions - most of its activity is bilateral, which gives the lie to this idea that it has some other great role.
The need for cooperation is very different to the involvement of the European Union institutions, which is merely part of the EU's wider agenda of political integration.
Madam President, I wanted to add my voice to that of my colleague, Geoffrey Van Orden, and my previous colleague from the Czech Republic, from the ODS.
I am also nervous - and I do not think it would be supported by many of my constituents in the United Kingdom - about the idea of turning EUROPOL into a kind of supranational fledging European Union FBI-style organisation.
Madam President, I cannot resist the temptation of answering my two colleagues Mr Van Orden and Mr Tannock.
We are not trying to create some kind of a US FBI type of organisation here, we are simply trying to have police cooperation which works better, which is more effective, which is more transparent, which is more flexible and which simply works.
That is not what we are trying to do.
As we know, approval of a decision at this moment in time still requires the consensus of all the Member States.
I also think that this question received a satisfactory solution in declaration No. 50 attached to the Treaty of Lisbon. - (DE) Madam President, because I had the feeling that the Minister had misunderstood this, I just wanted to take the liberty very briefly of pointing out the fact that the revision clause does not in any way jeopardise or influence ratification of the Treaty, but simply guarantees that after ratification, Parliament will once again deal with the Europol report.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the contributions that have been made.
Crime goes beyond borders, and our police forces, which are national, need to have in Europol an instrument to support and strengthen them.
However, some people, such as Mr Moreno, have not had and do not have the intellectual and moral integrity to apologise for spreading something that they should not have spread.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 January 2008.
