The bulk of the work on the Budget will, of course, take place in the autumn, but we hope to be able to solve a number of important issues at the conciliation in July in conjunction with the Council's first reading.
We naturally hope that this can take place without the drama seen last year when the whole agreement with Morocco collapsed, creating a difficult situation where all the work on the Budget was concerned.
We remain conscious of the fact that we also have to keep the promise we made last year of a further EUR 27 million to support the changeover from fishing to other industries in Spain and Portugal.
We at least need a little more information on the Commission and the Council's intentions regarding the initiatives in Afghanistan and the Middle East.
Therefore, preparations have to commence as soon as possible.
It is vital to reach agreement on the administrative costs in category 5 in July's conciliation.
However, the fact that we are prioritising enlargement does not mean that we can just automatically add more money for staff and other administrative costs.
In the EU, as in every modern administration, we must show that we are able to develop our methods of working, to reprioritise and to become more efficient and modern before we request more money.
The Committee on Budgets has therefore decided to reject the use of the flexibility instrument in category 5.
Over 800 people in the Commission are currently working on enlargement, of whom around 300 work for the Enlargement Directorate-General.
We wish to see results on these points before we agree to 500 new posts.
The Committee on Budgets had two aims: to state the situation of the first semester, identifying initial signs of deviation from the budget voted, and to provide the Commission with guidelines for the second semester.
The fact that there is no increase in the own resources ceiling during the current period of the financial perspective, 2000-2006, makes it even more essential that these objectives, which will enable us to improve the efficiency of our expenditure, are achieved.
To give you an idea of the amounts we are talking about, during the current financial year alone, the Commission has already presented transfers of a total volume of EUR 250 million and, for example, more than EUR 2 billion in payment appropriations were transferred during the 2001 budgetary procedure.
To improve this situation, the Commission is going to present an implementation schedule as of this year.
Indeed, we feel that the Commission should present the plan at the same time as it presents the request to the Budget Authority and should, moreover, present the information as far as possible on a case-by-case basis.
In order to improve the track record and image of the European Union, we would like, with this report, to call upon the Commission to present a plan of how the payments cancelled in the 2001 budget can be rescheduled, to present before 30 September a proper assessment of payments in 2002 and to accelerate payments on old commitments or to decommit those and cancel the obsolete payment appropriations.
As things stand, for the end of the year, the Commission is forecasting an implementation rate of 100% for commitments and 97% for payments.
As regards reconstruction in Afghanistan, additional appropriations may only be used if the Commission is able to demonstrate that the appropriations already entered under the budget lines have been spent properly, taking into account the commitments given by the other donors too.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this is a somewhat technical report, but it does show how necessary it is for all our parliamentary committees to concentrate on monitoring the Executive.
I would point out that, on 15 June, outstanding commitments totalled over EUR 111 billion, which is more than the European Union's annual budget.
Cancelling EUR 97 million of old appropriations would be an - albeit tentative - step in the right direction.
We too have stated that we are not prepared to go along with the absurd increase in premiums by the insurance companies which, following 11 September 2001, actually refused to cover the risks of any future attacks.
I am not exactly in favour of wasting money or spending it for the sake of it, but we must ensure that we actually honour the promises we have made to our citizens and those in other countries.
I can say that my group will be verifying the final Budget against at least three items.
Mr President, honourable Members, as Mr Färm has underlined, the purpose of this debate is to prepare the joint sitting of Parliament, Council and Commission prior to the Council's first reading of the 2003 Budget.
Its primary concern will be with agriculture and fisheries, but funds for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and administrative expenditure will also have a large part in the proceedings.
In agriculture, the Commission preliminary draft of EUR 2 billion is below the upper limit.
Now, of course, that has seen a great deal of movement over recent weeks, meaning that the margin in heading 1 for agriculture has already been reduced by between EUR 400 million and EUR 500 million.
Changes to date in the euro/US dollar exchange rate are thus causing an increase in expenditure of between EUR 400 million and EUR 500 million.
This means that more information about the implementation of the 2002 Budget is needed, and this we will, of course, have as the budget year takes its course.
Your report, Mr Podestà, is concerned with better forecasting for the necessary appropriations and with the resultant improvement in harmonisation with the implementation plans for the current Budget year.
To take the trans-European networks as an example, if commitments in this area always had to be implemented within a year, studies could be carried out, but the actual projects would not be able to be co-financed.
In the preliminary draft of the Budget, the Commission had set aside an amount to cover these measures both in the Commission and in the other institutions.
The position is that the Council wants to award itself an increase of 7% for administrative expenditure, and, if certain measures - such as, for example, the cost of translating the acquis communautaire - are added, the Council is proposing a rate of increase for itself of 12% over the Budget year 2003 and is financing it by cutting the Commission's own rate of increase.
This means that the entire surplus is injected into the 2002 Budget, and, above all, posts are created which the Economic and Social Committee needs in order to take on the functions devolving on it from August onwards in consequence of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.
We are on EUR 20 billion, lagging behind EUR 126 billion.
Not much money finds its way into agriculture and into Europe's rural areas; indeed, to put it bluntly, it flows only in the wrong channels.
That means that we have to achieve a balance between the first and second pillars if the reforms are to gain acceptance.
That must be taken into account, but the debate must not be allowed to end up as a perverse discussion on austerity; on the contrary, it must be about the reforms, and not simply a matter of saying that cuts make for the best agricultural policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to highlight the slow pace at which the programming for regional policy for 2000-2006 has been implemented in terms of the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and ISPA.
In this sense, the new penalties are not an exception and, nevertheless, despite our delay in approving their guidelines, a large number of programmes have been put before the European Commission, which shows that Parliament was right to defend these actions, which promote a direct relationship between Brussels and the regions.
I also think that we should provide more advice for the candidate countries on how to put together their proposals and increase the percentage of Community funding.
With regard to the line of funding of the European transport networks in this financial year, the level of completion is still very low, which leads us to believe that there may be more interest in some trans-European projects in the Member States surrounding them than in the actual Member State where they are taking place, which will have to be responsible for the majority of the funding.
It is equally important to have more precise information on the appropriations earmarked for international fisheries agreements, given the importance of those that were signed last year and the development of new international relations.
Nevertheless, we support the proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to provide EUR 27 million to finance the remaining appropriations allocated to the restructuring programme for the fleet previously operating in Morocco.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that we should at first ask ourselves whether it makes sense for one half of the budgetary authority to be using a parliamentary debate and a parliamentary resolution to set down its strategy for a conciliation procedure before the Council's first reading.
Let me also address the issue of civil crisis management.
We in the PPE-DE group have proposed something that I hope the majority in this House will support, namely that we should allocate Budget funds to this by means of the emergency reserve and also find a road down which the Council can go all the way.
Mr President, let us not lose sight of the fact that the Färm report is about giving Parliament some guidelines for the conciliation that will take place on 19 July.
We make our case on the three areas of discussion and the Council then ignores everything.
Those three areas are agriculture, fisheries and CFSP.
As regards agriculture we can make the points made by our colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture, especially the priorities which they see for agriculture, and we can talk about category 2 and the CFSP.
I would like to pick up a point made by Commissioner Schreyer - and this is what I heard through the English interpretation, not the Finnish interpretation - when she said that EUR 59 million would be needed and the flexibility instrument would have to be used.
However, we still have the problem of the EUR 27 million and I await with interest to see what the Council will do with that sum on 19 July.
There are areas where I would hope we can get decisions on 19 July, which makes it worthwhile for me at least to go.
That will be on category 5 and probably as regards the category 4 flexibility instrument if there is going to be such a thing.
It is obvious that the Council will never agree to a new flexibility instrument, but if we can get some agreement on using the existing emergency reserves in a similar way for category 4, which would be by a codecision procedure, we may make some headway.
But category 5 is the big area.
Mr Podestà's report has highlighted underspends in this year's budget.
The implementation of the budget was the poorest on record.
The figure for outstanding commitments has risen to EUR 110 billion, which is more than the EU's annual budget.
Another problem is administrative expenditure, which exceeds the financial perspectives by EUR 66 million.
The Commission is proposing the use of the flexibility instrument with regard to this.
The flexibility instrument is meant to cover unforeseen expenditure.
Mr President, Commissioner, next year's budget is lighter than normal.
In addition, we all know that a part of the appropriations still remains unspent.
Category 4 contains 'RAL air' and there is much scope for flexibility in category 5 without it being necessary to increase it by introducing the so-called flexibility instrument.
The use of this money for enlargement when it takes place should be safeguarded, but, technically, from the EU's point of view, it is money that has been lost.
We are all aware of the difficulties involved in the management of the budgetary procedure and the pressure on those who are responsible for it each year.
If I might venture an opinion, however, the situation this year appears to be much more complex and problematic.
In theory, it is two years until enlargement actually takes place but, in reality, the machine has already been set in motion and funds will have to be set aside from the 2003 budget to finance the changes necessary, especially at administrative level.
The tenor of the Färm report is more and still more money for the EU's policies.
Finally, I should like to highlight paragraph 14 in the Podestà report: by 1 September, we want precise information concerning the use that both partners in the peace process make of funds received from the European Union, what control mechanisms are in operation and what penalties should apply in the event of misuse of those funds.
Indeed, as many speakers have observed thus far, on the one hand, Parliament and the Commission are asking us to mobilise the flexibility instrument to cover what is ultimately run-of-the-mill, if excessive, expenditure, which means drawing on our last reserves - in terms of covering the expenditure for heading 5, when I consider that we are in a building which we really do not need, I think to myself that that may well be an area in which savings could be made - and, on the other, that we are preparing to make a gift to the Ministers for Finance of our countries, who are in great need of it, of at least EUR 14 billion of unspent funds which, very often, they themselves have failed to use. 'You can't fool us!', as a great Italian comic used to say.
I feel that it is on this that our effective credibility will depend in forthcoming years.
This is what I wanted to emphasise in this debate in which both the Commission and Parliament have a back seat.
However, as Mr Virrankoski said, there has of course been poor implementation of payment appropriations amounting to EUR 82 billion.
Secondly, there is a contradiction between external policy and administrative policy.
We are actually looking for funds to implement programmes decided by the Council or by our institution in the budgetary procedure.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Podestà Report on implementation profiles is a very important one, and I would like, at the very outset, to express my thanks to Mr Podestà, the rapporteur.
From the 2001 Budget, the Member States are getting EUR 15 billion back, that is, over fifteen times the total of appropriations carried over.
Even though we cannot generally accuse the Commission of disregarding our policy intentions, all of us together - by which, in this instance, I mean not only the members of the Committee on Budgets, but also the members of the specialist committees - have to support the Commission right through the year and see to it that they do not lose sight of our policy intentions.
Mr President, as draftsperson of the opinion - on the Budget - of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I should like to say that we have chosen not to issue an opinion on the 2003 Budget because our viewpoints are very well covered by the general observations in Mr Färm's excellent report.
The same problem exists in connection with the Social Fund and, because there is no long-term development of infrastructure in this area, I think this is a matter that should be viewed very seriously.
We must ensure that there is no overlapping of tasks when we set up agencies, but we must also ensure that the agencies are able to carry out their tasks and that their budgets for 2003 put them in a position successfully to complete the preparations for enlargement in 2004.
Finally, I should like to mention that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs attaches importance to priority's being given in the Budget to the new strategy relating to the working environment.
Mr President, when, a few months ago, we established the guidelines for the 2003 Budget, there was widespread agreement in the European Parliament on three priorities for category 5.
With this in mind, it is positive and encouraging that the incoming Danish Presidency has made very clear that enlargement is its main priority.
We could also talk about mistakes in provisions or shortcomings in implementation.
Year after year our Group places an emphasis on reforming the working methods in order to achieve greater efficiency, transparency and flexibility in budgetary policies, because that is, to a large extent, what is required for citizens to have confidence in the European plan.
Parliament has also shown that it wants and demands a European administration fit for the twenty-first century but, at the same time, we demand efficiency, monitoring and transparency.
The budget for next year faces old and new problems that we have to solve, and solving those old and new problems requires, above all, that we use common sense in our decisions.
Therefore, the budget for 2003 should fund the second stage of restructuring the Community fleet affected by the expired fisheries agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco.
The vote will take place today at 12.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the European Council report and Commission statement on the European Council meeting held in Seville on 21 and 22 June 2002, and the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council (Spanish Presidency).
I should like to record, on behalf of all of us, my gratitude to the Spanish Presidency and the President-in-Office of the Council for the courtesy which they have extended to Parliament and to me in the course of their presidency.
In particular, I wish to underline their willingness to work with us to try to establish for the future a dialogue between the institutions on how better to do business with each other and, more particularly, how we do business on behalf of our citizens.
Mr President, President of the Commission, honourable Members, when I presented the priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union to you, I undertook to come to the European Parliament to present the results of the Seville European Council and to make a final assessment of this six-month period.
I would like to begin my third appearance before you by expressing my satisfaction with the work done by the institutions throughout the Presidency, and the good relations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission during the past six months.
This good atmosphere of understanding is largely due to the efforts of President Pat Cox.
The European Parliament and its President have made a substantial contribution to the work of the Presidency.
Also, during the last six months the Council and Parliament have adopted a definitive text on access for the European Parliament to Council documents on foreign, security and defence policy, and we have reformed the European rules on the common electoral procedure.
Regarding the first matter, the Seville European Council welcomed the significant boost given to interinstitutional dialogue during the Spanish Presidency.
That group should be the foundation for the future interinstitutional agreement on simplifying and improving the regulatory framework, to be adopted in December 2002.
I think that I can say that progress has been made in each and every one of these areas.
The Presidency has moved forward with the measures in the European Union's plan of action against terrorism.
This objective would not have been possible without the support of Parliament and particularly without the support of the Commission.
All of these measures strengthen cooperation between the security bodies and forces of the Member States, help to increase the Union's international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and extend the scope of that fight to the whole of its support structure.
As part of the development of the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, Spain had proposed, as one of the aims for its Presidency, the creation of a common immigration and asylum policy.
Europe needs immigration and the majority of Europeans understand this, but in recent times we have seen the emergence of criminal mafias trafficking human beings.
In order to combat illegal immigration, the Seville European Council decided to adopt a comprehensive and balanced package of measures seeking to: fight illegal immigration and the trafficking of human beings; establish a coordinated and integrated management of the Union's external borders; speed up work on defining a common asylum and immigration policy; and integrate immigration policy into the Union's relations with third countries.
If we want the Union's aid for combating illegal immigration to be effective and also credible, we must be capable of evaluating and revising it according to the results obtained, in order to be able to react in the event of a clear lack of cooperation in curbing illegal immigration.
In this case, and in exceptional circumstances, the Union reserves the right to adopt measures, as part of the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Union's other policies, while respecting the agreements it has made.
The entry into circulation of the euro was an impetus for the Barcelona European Council to decisively resume the process of economic and social modernisation.
As you will recall, the results of the Barcelona European Council were examined by this House when I attended on 20 March.
The recent European Council approved the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines, reaffirming the commitment to achieving a budgetary balance by 2004 and the need to continue with economic reforms, as the only way for the Union to increase its growth and achieve full employment, an objective that we agreed in Lisbon for this decade.
Following the milestone of the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by the Community and Member States, and the good results of the Monterrey Summit, we now have two solid foundations from which to approach the World Summit on Development in Johannesburg.
This Summit will be an opportunity to fulfil our objectives of fighting poverty and environmental degradation and to promote the development of the less advanced countries.
The Spanish Presidency has negotiated a total of 96 chapters, 52 of which have been provisionally closed, and 22 of which have been opened for the first time.
This means that the negotiations have entered their final stage and I hope that the next European Council in Brussels will be able to nominate which countries will be able to complete the negotiations this year.
Allow me to dwell for a moment on the issue of direct payments in the agricultural chapter.
This was the most complex subject in the negotiations, given the particular sensitivity of some Member States.
The Seville European Council came up with a compromise formula that enables us to begin to negotiate with the candidates on the vast majority of the agricultural issues.
The remainder of the elements in the financial package of the enlargement negotiations will be communicated to the candidate countries by November at the latest.
The European Council in the autumn will therefore be able to decide with which candidate countries the negotiations can be completed at the end of 2002.
The European Council supports the general approach of the Convention.
Another matter that the Seville European Council dealt with was the ratification of the Treaty of Nice by Ireland.
The ratification of the Treaty of Nice is a necessary condition in order to move forward, and I consider the Declaration on the ratification of the Treaty of Nice by Ireland to be important, confirming that this Member State's policy of neutrality will not be affected by that ratification.
As you are also aware, the Laeken European Council asked the Secretary-General of the Council, Javier Solana, to present a report on the reform of the Council.
Based on this, and in accordance with the Barcelona European Council, in Seville the Presidency presented three groups of proposals on the reform of the Council.
The preparation work of the European Council will be the task of the new General Affairs and External Relations Council.
This new Council will prepare and monitor the work of the European Council, will be responsible for horizontal coordination and will guide all of the European Union's external action.
The Seville European Council also decided to decrease the number of Council of Ministers formations from sixteen to nine, adopted the rules for cooperation between Presidencies and adopted rules enabling Council sessions to be open to the public when it is acting in codecision with the European Parliament.
Finally, the Spanish Presidency has launched the debate on the six-month presidencies of the Union.
Changing the current six-monthly system of presidencies means reforming the Treaties.
In any event, the Copenhagen European Council must continue and expand on this discussion, based on the principle of equality between Member States.
During the Spanish Presidency, the Union has also pursued intense external activity.
The Summit with the United States reaffirmed the special political commitment that the Union has to the United States, by adopting the agreement on the negotiation of an agreement on judicial cooperation in criminal matters, extradition and mutual assistance.
Europe must support Russia in President Putin's clear commitment to defending democracy and starting on the road to reforms.
It was important that the European Union Summit with Russia was successful.
One of the objectives of this Summit was to promote regional integration in the area.
Spain also proposed, as a priority objective for its Presidency, driving forward the Barcelona Forum, the only process in which Israelis and Palestinians directly meet.
The Spanish Presidency was particularly attentive during times of serious crisis in the Middle East.
The Spanish Presidency has worked constantly to step up its cooperation with other international players.
The importance of the Quartet, which met for the first time in Madrid, and of the Declaration adopted by the European Union, the United States, the Russian Federation and the United Nations are proof of that effort, which is continuing today, as Special Envoys of the Quartet are meeting to continue coordinating their actions.
Strengthening the European Security and Defence Policy was also one of the priorities of the Spanish Presidency.
During the Spanish Presidency, the European Union has also confirmed that it is prepared to take on the task of policing in Bosnia-Herzegovina, on 1 January 2003, and has expressed its desire to take over operation 'Amber Fox?, in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Finally, I would like to point out that the Spanish Presidency has conducted all the negotiations in order to reach an agreement on the participation of European allies that are not Member States of the European Union in European defence.
Honourable Members, today I came to the European Parliament to explain the results of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union, and in particular of the Seville European Council.
The euro has entered into circulation without problems and was extremely well received, the European Council has decisively resumed the process of economic and social modernisation of Europe, the Union has played an important political role in the world and, finally, we have faced the problems arising from illegal immigration and succeeded in responding firmly to the threat of terrorism.
All of these steps should increase our confidence in the European plan, which is a formula that has been verified and is based on success.
It is only from this twofold perspective that we will be able to face the two most immediate tasks that our future holds: enlargement and the reunification of Europe and the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, which will define our institutional system.
I do not want to finish without offering my best wishes to the Danish Presidency and assuring it, of course, of Spain's support throughout the next six months, just as they have actively cooperated with us.
In the last few months, another challenge has caught our attention - immigration - which calls for more reflection on the balance we need to achieve within our societies in Europe and in relations between the northern and southern hemispheres.
We are quite familiar with the difficulties involved in these challenges and we must pay tribute to the Spanish Presidency, which has guided the Union through the last six months as it tackled all these problems with drive and wisdom.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank President Aznar, his ministers and all those who worked with him for their work.
In the autumn, by the Brussels European Council in October, to be precise, we must have agreement within the Union on certain budgetary issues and, in particular, on direct payments to farmers.
Sometime in the autumn too, the citizens of Ireland will be taking part in a second referendum to ratify the Treaty of Nice.
The great commitment displayed by the candidate countries over the last few years deserves to meet with success.
I cannot stress too often that enlargement and the related reforms are and will remain our main political priority and that the Commission will spare no effort to reach that goal, a goal whose strategic importance stretches far beyond the confines of Europe.
The importance of these timeframes must in no way be underestimated.
Overall, however, immigration calls for a comprehensive approach that takes all the political, social and human dimensions fully into account.
Under the chairmanship of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, the Convention's task is to devise lasting solutions for the Europe of tomorrow consisting of 25 Member States or more, and to think about the type of Union we want for our continent.
As I said, however, there are other processes under way, both within the EU and on its doorstep, as Mr Aznar said in his speech, and these demand that we review the workings of the institutions as of now - resolutely, swiftly and pragmatically - without waiting for the Treaties to be amended and without interfering in the work of the Convention.
The impact of enlargement on the way the institutions function must, for example, be assessed immediately, so the necessary measures can be put in place by the beginning of 2004 at the latest.
A coordinated and concerted approach is therefore vital in the streamlining processes underway in all the institutions.
The Corbett report to Parliament, the Solana report and our own proposals on reforming the way the Commission works all point in the same direction.
In particular, the new rules approved at Seville concerning the European Council and the other Council configurations and my ideas on reforming the College of Commissioners have a great deal in common.
Both initiatives organise the activities of their respective institutions in a more flexible and simpler way, identifying a set of core tasks and assigning them to coordination bodies with clearly determined responsibilities.
Ladies and gentlemen, at this historic time, creative solutions must be found right away with the instruments to hand - with the instruments we have already, without amending the Treaties.
I would like to thank you, Members of Parliament, and Mr Aznar and his colleagues, for precisely that spirit of cooperation, for we have worked pragmatically and energetically in the last six months.
We in the PPE-DE group are firmly convinced that our relations with the Arab and Islamic world need to be put on a firmer footing.
We must not allow ourselves to treat terrorism and the Arab and Islamic world as if they were one and the same thing, and should do everything possible, in North Africa in particular, to create a society in which conditions are such that young people do not emigrate, but have a future in their own homeland.
I wish to thank you for your active involvement, as a representative of the southern part of the European Union, in the issue of the accession of the countries of Central Europe, and also of course Cyprus and Malta.
We have a great deal of faith in the expected Interinstitutional Agreement, the conclusion of which is being worked on at a high level, not only by experts, but also by politicians, in order to bring about genuinely better lawmaking in the European Union.
On behalf of our group, I thank you for a successful presidency, and we have confidence in the Spanish government and in Spain's Prime Minister that under the Danish Presidency we will be able to continue along the road on which we have travelled for the past six months.
In this spirit, I wish you and all of us great success for the next six months in this European Union in which we share. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, honourable Members, I would first of all like to welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists, the outgoing President of the Council and the evocative speech that he has made today.
Allow me to make an initial observation on the atmosphere of Seville which was not only in a holiday period, but in Easter week, in a city that is defined as being the capital of the three cultures.
We are against a fortress Europe and, above all, a Europe that is impregnable to European citizens, and we therefore think that an explanation is needed here as to why European and Iberian citizens, specifically Portuguese citizens, in this case, and elected representatives, were prevented from exercising their right to go to Seville.
He himself, both here and in Oxford, has criticised six-month presidencies.
I have to express my agreement with this because, obviously, the book of Genesis cannot be rewritten every six months.
The Swedish Presidency raised the important issue for Europe of our demography.
We do not have a memory of the past, and this is an important point, because it has to be said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you gave the Justice and Home Affairs Council some very strict tasks: we have been waiting in the European Parliament for a more proactive and less repressive European policy to be made on immigration, through the codecision procedure.
That is the first thing. (Applause) Secondly, I have to say that the Presidency, and it has not been the only one to do this, has systematically avoided thorny issues.
I would like to point out that the European Parliament, as in previous enlargements, has always said that enlargement requires a review of the financial perspectives, and you are doing this by the back door.
The Parliamentary Group of the European Socialist Party has adopted a document on the necessary reform of the agricultural policy and you are doing it in private, without a public debate, and even without listening to what the Commission is proposing, which may be very debatable, but you have a responsibility to do so.
It is true that we have concluded the agreement on access to documents.
When you say that you are going to open up the Council in its capacity of codecision with Parliament, you tell us to access it via the Internet.
To conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me also to mention your proposal for a Presidency of the Council for five years.
Now that you have openly expressed it, I have to say that, as a European democrat, I am against us recreating the Holy Roman Germanic Empire and I am in favour of maintaining the Community method. (Applause) Mr President, for the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, the key test of Seville was the agreement on immigration and asylum which elevated discussion beyond the search for cheap newspaper headlines and into the core of the challenge.
A casual reader of the newspapers in the run-up to Seville might have believed that the Prime Minister of Spain was playing Don José to Tony Blair's Carmen in a passionate but deadly delusion about using development aid as a weapon in the crackdown on illegal migrants.
We, therefore, welcome the success of Prime Minister Verhofstadt and others in redressing the balance of the European Council's draft conclusions.
In particular we are pleased that the Council recalled the importance of economic cooperation, free trade, development aid and conflict prevention in tackling the causes of illegal immigration.
I applaud the Council's emphasis on providing incentives to developing countries to cooperate in the management of migration flows rather than on suspending development aid for non-cooperation.
However, rather than simply setting new targets for achieving progress on immigration and asylum, Heads of State and Government would do better to stop clogging up the decision-making process with national initiatives and to back Commission proposals under the Community method.
Concerning the proposals for reform of the proceedings of the Council, it is all very well for Heads of State and Government to talk about introducing greater transparency into the workings of the Council.
We need to achieve real transparency by giving access to Council documents on the Internet, from when they are first discussed by officials right up to ministerial level.
I, therefore, warmly congratulate the Spanish Presidency on securing a deal on the pensions directive - which had been blocked in Council since July of last year - as well as agreement on the market abuse directive, because behind the sound and fury over illegal immigration it is steady progress on technical but vital issues such as these which show the worth of a presidency.
For example, when it became complicated to fulfil the enlargement objectives, the subject of illegal immigration was introduced.
The priority of terrorism was a focus that partly reduced the much broader mandate from Laeken, focused on the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
In actual fact there has not been any significant progress made on this aspect, and the issue of terrorism has consisted basically of the arrest warrant which had already been partly drawn up by the Belgian Presidency.
Fortunately, some Member States toned down his proposals in that respect.
Integration policies, family reunification cases, long-term resident status and common regulation of migratory flows have been put aside, or more correctly, are still to be developed.
It is true that a good number of chapters have been closed, but they are not all of equal importance.
The agricultural chapter was the main one, and within it, direct aid is much more important than any other subject.
The Commission's tight-fisted proposal on agriculture is rejected by the majority of the candidate countries.
Also, the blocking of the General Affairs Council by four Member States demonstrates the magnitude of the problem, a subject on which not much progress was made in Seville.
A large number of Member States want a larger market, but not more Europe.
The Barcelona European Council and the policies that your Government intends to implement in Spain are proof to the contrary.
And from Barcelona to Seville, Mr Aznar, a general strike was called.
For these reasons, Mr Aznar, we cannot make a positive assessment of your Presidency.
I would also be grateful, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you could clarify the issue of what happened with Portugal regarding these demonstrations.
As regards immigration and asylum, we were relieved to see that your proposal to link development aid - which is already appallingly low - to the Union's aspirations of controlling illegal immigration did not receive support at Seville.
Finally, Mr Aznar, I too would like to know why Green Party representatives have been involved in problems on the borders with Portugal.
Mr President, the key objectives which the Spanish Government set out for its presidency of the European Union have been achieved.
Negotiations for the prospective enlargement of the European Union have accelerated at a strong pace and it is now likely that negotiations with many of the applicant countries may indeed be concluded before the end of this year.
This is a tight timeframe, but one which can now be achieved because of the strong progress which has been made over the last six months.
The Barcelona meeting earlier this spring ensured that the ongoing development of the European economy remains a centre stage priority.
EU governments fully recognise that the development of the European economy cannot be achieved unless we take full advantage of new and evolving information technologies.
The promotion of e-business activities, e-health programmes, e-government and e-learning initiatives under the auspices of the e-Europe Action Plan 2005 is being implemented in its entirety across the length and breadth of Europe.
The reform of the pensions systems in Europe has also been prioritised.
We must implement initiatives which guarantee that older people in our society can lead fulfilling lives with confidence and with a full sense of reassurance that their needs are fully protected.
Irish troops have a proud record of serving in peace-keeping and humanitarian missions abroad under the auspices of United Nations mandates and the Irish people want this to continue to be the case in the future.
I welcome the two declarations agreed in Seville, one signed by the Irish Government and the other approved by the European Council.
In essence, these declarations spell out in clear and unequivocal terms the fact that Ireland's policy of neutrality is fully protected.
In line with our traditional policy of military neutrality, Ireland is not bound by any mutual defence commitment.
Irish defence forces serving overseas require United Nations approval, the agreement of the Irish Government and the approval of the Irish Parliament.
Our European partners have declared that the Nice Treaty does not impose any defence commitments on any Member State of the European Union.
Isolation in Europe would only bring economic uncertainty to our country, which has a high level of inward investment comprising hundreds of thousands of jobs.
We want to ensure that we remain a popular location for outside investors, who view Ireland as a gateway to the single market within the European Union.
It is very clear that the problem of illegal immigration in Europe is one that needs to be tackled and I welcome the agreement reached by our leaders to intensify their coordinating efforts at sea and land borders to halt illegal immigration into the Union.
We must continue to coordinate with countries where high levels of illegal immigration originate and we must ensure that organised criminals involved in the sinister business of human trafficking are arrested and prosecuted for their crimes.
Finally, the Spanish Presidency of the European Union has been a very successful one.
Let us all work with the Danish Government to continue the progress over the next six months.
We are still a long way, however, from the transparency that characterises our national parliaments when they legislate.
All other countries in the world still wish to be more open than ourselves.
I should like to call upon our fellow MEPs from France and Luxembourg to give their ministers a lesson in openness and parliamentary democracy.
Does it actually surprise anyone that this European Union is increasingly being considered somewhat undemocratic by an increasing number of citizens and that people are turning away in droves, which is regrettable?
A number of group spokesmen have made reference to the question of parliamentary access to sensitive Council documents in the Second Pillar.
Yesterday evening the Bureau considered a draft document which Parliament also needs to adopt as a parallel exercise, on the internal security measures guaranteeing protection of sensitive information, on terms comparable to the security guarantees in the Council and the Commission.
When the Bureau approves that draft document, it too will be forwarded to plenary for consideration with the draft interinstitutional agreement.
It is, however, reasonable to say that in the past six months we have made more progress than ever in the field of justice and home affairs.
Those who murder, or use extortion and threats as a means of achieving their political objectives are undoubtedly a threat to democracy and to the system of freedoms.
I want to end by repeating some words that were said in this plenary in January 1996, during the previous Spanish Presidency of the European Union.
The spokesperson for my Group, Abel Matutes, said then that the Presidency does not belong to the Government that is temporarily exerting the power, but is the responsibility of the whole country and all of its people.
We have fulfilled that objective and therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that we take the good and bad elements of this Presidency as our own.
They will always have the freedom to continue bringing strictly national discussions to Brussels and Strasbourg.
They therefore also have the opportunity first of all to lose the debates in their country of origin and then lose them again here, in Brussels or Strasbourg.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it goes without saying that every presidency has its positive aspects, as well as others that are deserving of criticism.
Every presidency also has the option of shuffling some things off on to the other Member States.
That transparency should have to do with only part of lawmaking, only at its outset and conclusion, and only in a particular way, is actually ridiculous.
What the world's poorest countries need is cooperation and aid in order to reduce the pressure to emigrate.
We simply know that many people in our society are afraid that this change and modernisation will make them losers.
As a Liberal, I am therefore glad that the more repressive proposals did not receive support in Seville and that the Council appears to have understood that trade, aid and support of democracy are better ways to prevent people from fleeing their country than threatening sanctions.
I hope that the Danish Presidency will be able to set a good example in this regard.
Now is the time for you to demonstrate the forcefulness of your politics there, here, where our future is being decided.
To conclude, your initial proposals on immigration were significantly reduced, thank God, and, to the disappointment of many, the people of Barcelona and Seville behaved and dispelled all of your alarmist predictions with their civic-minded attitude.
I therefore formally ask, Mr President, that the European institutions congratulate both cities on their behaviour and civic-mindedness, and on their patience in the face of those expensive and unnecessary displays of power.
The Seville Summit was heralded as a new stage in the development of a European immigration and asylum policy.
First of all, I am very relieved that the proposal for a European police service for border control and the idea of deducting development aid from unwilling countries of origin of illegal immigrants have not been adopted.
Unfortunately, the Summit has not resulted in any progress in this area, even though proposals have been ready for some time.
This is not a new stage in the development, but stagnation.
Of course you are not the only one to blame for the current pitiful image of the European Union because facts like the genocide practices in Chechnya, Palestine and Kurdistan cannot be disguised.
Everybody can see this from your irresistible desire to ban Batasuna and all the Basque nationalist organisations.
In doing so you have provoked the bitterest quarrel with the Basque bishops, trade unions and a large majority of Basque citizens since the time of Franco.
Mr President, I do not know whether it was Talleyrand who said that opposition is the art of being against something, but in such a way that later you can be in favour of it.
I wanted to say this, Mr President, because in this type of debate the problems of a situation like this can be dealt with from different perspectives, and all of them are valid, except that of those who out of a lack of moral fibre do not speak out to condemn the murder of innocent victims, which is an insult to their memory and makes a mockery of Parliament's position.
Criticism, Mr President, is also a little like wills, in that only the most recent one is valid.
Also, in my opinion, Mr President, there is also a question of personal style.
Everyone has their own style, just as they have their own nose, and bringing domestic issues and debates to this Parliament clearly means that citizens will take note of this type of attitude, which is not in the general interest, but rather aimed in vain at compromising the image of the Spanish Government.
But it is clear that in the short six-month period the President-in-Office cannot magically resolve all the problems afflicting the European Union, as if he had the philosopher's stone, the yellow ointment or the balm of Fierabrás.
I regret that Mr Barón is not in the House at the moment, because he, having been a Transport Minister, is here giving us lessons in how to sail, when his boat is taking in water left right and centre.
Mr President, anyone who funds those involved in terrorism brings shame on this House.
The way to resolve the Basque conflict is for those who are persecuting and killing us to stop doing so and leave us to live in freedom.
The chapter that the Presidency had proposed closing in order to achieve the reunification of Europe and make it a reality remain open.
Regarding relations with our main ally, I have to acknowledge, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have had an undeniable personal success: you were invited to Camp David.
In short, our leadership is flagging.
Regarding foreign relations, it is true that the agreement with Chile has been signed, on which we congratulate you, but this Presidency has not given the Union's policy on Latin America and the Mediterranean the position it deserves.
Europe is not doing well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not doing better than it was six months ago.
To conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I was not planning to describe this Presidency, but your Minister for Foreign Affairs, as always, has provoked me by saying that he is reasonably satisfied.
Perhaps because I am leftwing and a woman, and women and the left wing require more ambition, I will say that I am reasonably unsatisfied. (Applause) Mr President, I should like both to congratulate and to thank the Spanish Presidency - and not only the prime minister, but also all the other ministers - for their sympathetic cooperation with the European Parliament.
No sensible person is in favour of illegal immigration.
Mr President, your few months in the Presidency have been long enough to make a caricature of what was agreed under previous presidencies on immigration and asylum, education and women's employment and sustainable development.
I would warn the Danish Presidency against the proposals it is about to make.
Mr Aznar, the need to combat illegal immigration is clearly indisputable.
What concerns us, however, is that this battle should become the key factor in relations with third countries and in cooperation agreements, assuming greater practical and political importance than that accorded either now or in the past to the advancement of democracy and the Rule of Law.
I was going to begin by saying what a great encouragement and example you have been to the centre-right parties in Europe.
However, looking at the agenda at Seville and the areas where we would wish to see greater progress, I have to say that I am a little disappointed at the economic reform package.
I do not blame you for that, Prime Minister, I blame recalcitrant governments elsewhere in Europe.
The Prime Minister understands that, but I am not sure that many other Member State governments do.
In relation to enlargement, certainly my party looks for considerable progress in negotiations on the CAP and structural reform.
His Europe Minister said that it was Mr Blair's agenda that is being set.
Mr President, it is clear on reading the Seville conclusions on the reform of the Council that Parliament's recommendations have only been followed partially.
The focusing of the European Council on its main role, namely to strengthen the coordination role of the General Affairs Council and greater transparency, are certainly along the right lines.
Furthermore, to change the subject, the Spanish Presidency deserves thunderous applause for its statement on the Middle East.
In reality, sustainable peace cannot be achieved unless the two adversaries comply with the basic principles of international law and respect the resolutions of the United Nations.
Israel must therefore draw back within the borders established in 1967 and dismantle its illegal settlements.
Now you just have to convince our US counterparts that the European vision for peace in the Middle East is the only way to put a stop to these massacres.
For the ratification, this means that national parliaments have to like it or lump it.
Today we have the result of less Europe in terms of solidarity, with immigration being confused with crime and many Spaniards forgetting that, not so many years ago, they were forced to be immigrants in order to find the means to live.
And the only area in which you have promoted more Europe is in penalties and punishments for the poor countries that are the origin of immigration.
The same thing that has been done in Spain with unemployment benefits or in the case of the conflict in the Basque Country, imposition and repression.
At least the other European leaders improved on what you did in time and your overall proposal for penalties, as well as your Presidency, ultimately failed.
Mr President, the Spanish Presidency had the good sense to change its priorities during the mandate by placing the battle against illegal immigration at the top of the agenda of the Seville Council.
We can only guess at the harm done to the concept of Europe in public opinion in recent years by the Commission's integration projects, which prioritised uncontrolled freedom of movement within the Union and the most extensive reception of third-country nationals possible, even above protecting citizens' safety and social cohesion in the Member States.
Lastly, Mr President, I would point out that the Council statement on Ireland was only designed to soften up the Irish before their second referendum on Nice.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, listening earlier to the long list of tasks your government has been faced with over the past six months, I, like Mr Prodi, thought that Spain had acted with great energy and wisdom in what is a very short space of time.
In discussions on the subject, everyone is united in demanding better spending through more balanced and intelligent distribution of tasks between players in the European weapons industry.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make two points.
The first concerns the Seville conclusions on the reform of the Council: Parliament has been asking the Council to reform since before the Nice Treaty.
If we can find a sound model for the reform of the Council without waiting for the reform of the Treaty, all well and good.
Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya and Coalición Canaria, we would like to say that the achievements listed by the President-in-Office of the Council represent significant achievements, from the Galileo programme to the liberalisation of the energy sector, achieved in Barcelona, to the control of illegal immigration and the consolidation of the status of the outermost regions, in Seville.
It is time to take stock, Mr Aznar.
The fight against terrorism was one of your priorities.
As they say in rugby, you kicked the common agricultural policy, finance and aid to future Member States into touch and sent the ball to the Danish Presidency's end.
You should have ridden the wave of fear in Europe, the wave of hatred for Le Pen, Haider and Berlusconi.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the progress made by the European Union in combating illegal immigration and the trafficking in human beings is to be welcomed.
The fact that the Americans are currently massively increasing their agricultural subsidies means that Chancellor Schröder's threat to suspend direct payments to European agriculture would have a catastrophic effect on its competitiveness.
You said, Mr Aznar, that Spain has proposed a European immigration and asylum policy.
Nearly three years ago, in Tampere, the European Council adopted a programme to harmonise asylum policies and to provide the European Union with a common framework for immigration policies.
None of these proposals were adopted.
You turned the Tampere agenda around and that concerns me for many reasons, including reasons of efficiency.
The fight against illegal immigration should be defending a legal European immigration policy.
I hope that there will be real steps forward in the future.
Mr President, I would like to think the Spanish Presidency for helping the Irish Government, and indeed the ratification of the Treaty of Nice, by allaying fears at least in the defence and security areas.
This will hopefully allow us a debate on the real issues surrounding the Treaty of Nice and, as colleagues have said, win the hearts and minds of the Irish people through the two declarations which were annexed to the Seville conclusions, stating that EU common foreign and security policy will not prejudice Ireland's traditional stance of military neutrality.
Great confusion arose during the last Nice referendum campaign with unrefuted scare stories that we could be forced to take part in foreign missions against our will and even that conscription could be introduced.
We now have a so-called 'triple-lock', requiring that any Irish military involvement in international missions overseas has to have in every case a UN mandate, as well as the approval of both the Irish Government and the Oireachtas or Irish Parliament.
If we are to have a truly independent or neutral country, as these same people claim to wish, then how do we approve of and allow a situation where any one of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council can prevent Ireland from participating in EU missions when we believe they are appropriate?
We now need above all crystal-clear leadership on the issue of enlargement, as what is being played out on the Irish stage is a full reflection of the concerns - real and perceived - of all our citizens on the ground.
In conclusion, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe have suffered greatly, first under the fascist and then the communist joke.
Our leaders are also stepping up their use of tough language, but in my view, they have treated our electorate's concerns with contempt by failing to formulate objectives in Seville, such as a European border police force, real European migration policy with partnership agreements with the countries of origin, and genuine and prompt support for the proposals of Commissioner Vitorino.
We hope that in the Council's Foreign Affairs club, both the ministers of Development and Cooperation and the Defence ministers will be meeting with each other regularly and visibly to demonstrate that Europe's security policy places great emphasis on conflict prevention and fighting poverty in the interest of a more stable world.
In addition, Kaliningrad must consider the Schengen Agreements as a framework for a solution.
Mr President, there is a certain and true fact that seems to trouble the left wing, which is the fact that it has been the Spanish Government, specifically the Government of President José María Aznar, a Government of the Partido Popular, that has driven forward, both in Tampere and in Seville, all the guidelines that the European Union has adopted in the area of immigration and asylum.
I think that it is important, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it should be known that Members from across the Mediterranean spectrum who met in Bari, without any distinction in terms of politics, three days before the Seville summit, unanimously adopted a resolution clearly supporting each and every one of the guidelines agreed in Seville: to promote integration policies ensuring the respect of the rights and freedoms of immigrants that legally live in the European Union, and also respect on their part for their obligations as citizens and for the values of civil society; making association and cooperation agreements a tool for joint responsibility in managing migratory flows; and adopting the necessary measures to evaluate and ensure the effective application of the agreements.
Also that the countries of origin should also increase their efforts in the fight against illegal immigration, better monitor and manage their borders and take responsibility for the readmission of illegal immigrants.
Ladies and gentlemen, the thousands of deaths and disappearances already counted on the coast of Andalusia, along with those in Dover, or the sad sight of boats full of immigrants on the Italian coasts should not allow the slightest room for demagogy or irresponsible partisan accusations, which only encourage those who make immigration into a radical flag with serious political consequences.
Mr Aznar, I would like to start by congratulating the Spanish Presidency for, as Vice-President responsible for conciliation, I have to say that we have done a good job: we have adopted many problematic instruments, and all credit is due to Parliament, the Council and the Commission too for its active cooperation.
The document adopted at Seville on Council reform refers to a strategic document which the Council is to present, covering three years.
Mr President, at the end of the Spanish Presidency a great deal of things could be said to you about your accomplishments, many of which we have heard this morning, some more positive than others.
Regarding the progress made in the negotiations with the candidate countries, this has been spectacular, and the criticism that some very sensitive chapters were left uncompleted is loaded with partiality and a lack of equanimity.
In short, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we were promised more Europe and more Europe is what we got.
I would firstly like to say that, as you all know, the task of the presidencies is essentially to promote measures, to promote reforms, to introduce initiatives and above all to shape and seek agreements which allow things to move forward, and this reflects our European tradition and also the form of the debates in the European Council.
With regard to the issues raised in relation to the area of freedom, security and justice and those presented to us today in relation to immigration policy, I would like to point out that what was implemented in Seville was the general plan, the general strategy approved at the Tampere European Council.
I am grateful for all the comments made in this regard but at the same time I would like to point out that in 1998 the then Austrian Chancellor, Viktor Klima, commissioned certain prime ministers, under the Austrian Presidency, to develop and present drafts of work to be carried out.
And I, on behalf of Spain, had the honour of being commissioned to work on all the issues relating to the third pillar of the Union.
And Tampere establishes a general framework for the third pillar, for the first time, which naturally needs to be implemented in accordance with new circumstances and with the dynamic of the process established in Tampere.
That is what was done in Seville, as laid out from the outset in the programme of the Spanish Presidency.
I would like to say in this regard that we must work on the basis of four elements within such a complex field as immigration.
Immigration in our countries must be based on legality.
And there are mafias who are dedicated to human trafficking and illegal immigration, which is a very profitable business for those mafias and furthermore is connected to other crimes, such as drug-trafficking.
Therefore, the implementation of an action plan against illegal immigration is one of the most important elements to have been carried out in Seville and naturally it is one of new elements to have been implemented during the Spanish Presidency.
We have fundamental obligations to defend, control and monitor our external borders and we have fundamental obligations to be much more efficient through the use of common visas, groups of experts, security forces, working groups, special forces.
Finally, there is a significant innovation within the field of immigration, which is to incorporate it into the European Union's cooperation policy.
It is the first time this has happened, but all the agreements signed by the European Union with any country, from this point on, must include an immigration clause, just as they have clauses relating to the fight against terrorism and the defence of human rights.
All agreements signed by the European Union from now on will contain a clause relating to commitments in the fight against illegal immigration.
We are not talking about a controversial debate on any particular type of sanction.
Europe must be possible and Europe has a capacity for reception which must be based on the law and on this basis we will undoubtedly create a positive immigration policy which is to everybody's advantage.
Those who support, shelter, assist or fund terrorists also form part of the terrorist organisation ? ?
and are just as responsible for the actions of the terrorist organisation.
I hope there is no European institution or institution in any Member State of the European Union that gives shelter or assistance to those who protect, fund or support terrorists.
Well I would like to say that what we must prevent at all times is allowing terrorists to be sheltered within institutions so that they can continue to commit crimes or continue to fund or support crimes in any part of the European Union or in any country of the European Union.
That is our objective, to achieve full employment.
Practically every country in the European Union is currently undergoing social and labour reforms in order to try to come closer to full employment.
It is precisely those countries with more unemployment problems that must work harder to implement these reforms.
Full employment in Europe involves just two approaches: one is the stability pact, the foundation for sustainable and stable growth in Europe, and the other is the policy of reforms aimed at a more open, competitive and productive area.
In this way we will stimulate growth, we will increase competition and, above all, we will help to fulfil our objective, which is to have the greatest possible number of people working in Europe.
Secondly: the common positions on regional policy, institutional policy, the financial framework and agricultural policy have been adopted.
This has been the case because an agreement and a difficult consensus were achieved at the Seville European Council, where the only danger was that an agreement would not be reached and enlargement would be at risk.
Therefore, in November we will be able to take decisions and in December we will have fulfilled the Nice timetable.
What we have to do is apply the Community acquis and not call other policies into question: in other words to mix up the financial perspectives and Agenda 2000 - which is valid until 2006.
To mix up the financial perspectives with enlargement is a mistake, in my opinion.
With regard to the reform of the Council, I would like to say that decisions have been taken which do not imply a reform of the Treaties.
Reforms which do not involve a modification of the Treaties do, however, represent reasonable progress.
If someone says that they are not in favour of a six-month presidency or of a presidency of three, four or five years, they must say what they are in favour of, because the European Councils must be presided over in some way: six months, one year or two years, but the European presidencies must be organised in some way.
That is why, after these six months of work, we can be reasonably satisfied, and this will provide us with the best basis for our future expectations. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has highlighted a number of essential issues tackled by the Spanish Presidency, with regard to which I would like to make a few brief remarks.
Another series of problems mentioned concerned international aid and the forthcoming Johannesburg Summit.
I would like to focus briefly on this point for, after today's and tomorrow's debates, we will not meet again before this extremely important event at the end of August.
Everything we have said today about immigration, our security and our relations with the rest of the world is dependent upon a more effective, larger-scale Mediterranean policy.
I have to say, quite frankly, that the Commission's proposals are our only hope of reconciling the various demands and expectations in a situation in which our budget is limited but in which we also need to do everything we can to meet the needs of the farmers of the current Member States.
Mr Bonde mentioned the famous telephone conversation between Mr Aznar and myself on the problems of the CFSP.
I must say that this is a good way of working, that we have had at least 30 or 40 telephone conversations in these six months and that it is precisely because of this ongoing cooperation that we have been able to work for the common good.
Lastly, Mr Imbeni asked some questions regarding our annual operating programme - this is a very important point - and the three-year programme laid down by the Seville European Council.
As regards the three-year programme, the three institutions will have to reflect together on how to put this new idea to good use and how to avoid it becoming just a bureaucratic exercise.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the last vote, and I would ask you to record in the Minutes the withdrawal of Amendment No 15 from the Turchi report. . (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats chose to vote against Amendments Nos 2, 4 and 5.
We, the Greens, believe that the votes delivered by Parliament today alter the very spirit of the proposal for a directive on which the Savary report is based.
The Greens are in favour of harmonising transport, but on the condition that this harmonisation improves the situation in Europe, which is what our fellow citizens are demanding.
This sort of harmonisation requires more social measures and greater consideration to be given to the environment.
Of course, we, the Greens, have placed our hopes in this harmonisation and this draft directive, particularly with Amendment No 13, which fulfilled citizens' expectations, particularly as far as greater road safety is concerned, taking greater account of the quality of life; this harmonisation also left Member States with the option of introducing additional restrictions, which is still in line with what we hope to give to our policy in this area.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that all our transport policies stipulate that we must reduce road transport.
That is why I advocated leaving the regulation of travel restrictions to the Member States.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Savary Report, albeit with some difficulty, as it appears to be a step forwards, but far from being what I would have liked.
We therefore voted in favour of all the amendments which seek to introduce additional driving restrictions, taking into account 'topographical , environmental or road safety grounds?.
Since these restrictions were not adopted, we voted against the report.
We should develop rail transport and combined road-rail transport as part of a European public railway service. . (DE) The Austrian Freedom Party's delegation rejects the Commission proposal for harmonised rules for restrictions on heavy goods vehicle traffic at weekends and on public holidays.
One reason for this is that the directive would violate the subsidiarity principle and would substantially limit national competence in the area of Austria's road traffic regulations.
Mr President, in the dim and distant past - 1963 - I met Mr Turchi's father.
When we see the delays incurred in work on the projects approved at the Essen summit, when we see that today, when a new policy on sustainable mobility is being proposed which is extremely demanding in terms of public incentives, when we see that the Council has just withdrawn or deferred the six new projects that were absolutely essential for implementing the Commission's new transport policy, projects which were included in the guideline proposals on European public networks, we can only appeal for the problem of financing trans-European networks to be tackled at last, and that our European transport policy is finally allocated the resources that match its ambitions.
The report highlights the poor development in trans-European networks in the area of transport, particularly the rail network, as well as in the interconnection between energy networks.
This poor development is the by-product of developing the European economy within restricted national frameworks.
We voted against the report because we are opposed to using public money to increase private profits.
Furthermore, the aim of increased interconnection in the gas and electricity markets is not to rationalise energy distribution throughout the Union, but to completely open up the gas and electricity market to competition, which is one step further, particularly in France, towards the privatisation of EDF and GDF, a process that we reject wholeheartedly.
Rather than continuing to favour large companies and their shareholders, we should instead be taxing them more, so that the various States or the European Community can finance a transport network for the twenty-first century.
Only in the last few years have most Member States invested in improving the railways and sometimes inland shipping too.
It is uncertain whether expensive goods railways, such as the Betuwelijn in the Netherlands, will actually be used as long as companies retain the freedom to transport their goods by road more cheaply and connecting railway capacity in neighbouring countries is lacking.
In addition to a change of priorities in the field of the trans-European networks, the proposal also and once again provides a shift of focus, relocating it to Eastern Europe, to the detriment of the current cohesion countries, such as Portugal, which are given only marginal consideration in the document.
The proposal suggests further needs of EUR 150 million for the financial perspectives for the 2000-2006 period.
Under these circumstances, this proposal does not deserve our support.
Therefore, roll on the reduction in excise duty on all products!
Although this is an area in which conscious planning on a global scale should prevail, it is energy production and transport and the management of energy resources that are most important, especially since the choice between the various energy sources can have major consequences for the planet's future.
These corporations have the resources to impose their decisions on the entire world and to use Member States and their tax policy to support the most profitable form of energy.
The choice in favour of more public transport is preferable because this transport can make use of energy gained from water, wind and sun more easily.
As the driving power used in transport vehicles, this type of energy remains the best option.
In fact, no EU regulation is required for this, because Member States must be able to do this independently.
That is why I voted for the motion. . (NL) Nuclear energy is a very controversial issue, but following years of inactivity in the wake of the Harrisburg and Chernobyl disasters, attempts are once again being made to build new nuclear plants.
We certainly need an independent office for Nuclear Safety and Protection, which can directly monitor all operators in the Member States and future Member States on the safety of nuclear plants and nuclear material.
I also support the proposed rejection of the production of nuclear weapons in the EU, as I endorse control to prevent production of this kind.
Mr President, this report calls for and promotes European cinematographic works, in particular, and other audiovisual works as well.
However, little headway has been made, despite repeated debate and measures.
Notwithstanding this reservation the delegation supports the overall stance of the Vander Taelen report.
cultural and industrial - nature of cinematographic and audiovisual works does not make sense since the advantages to be gained from paying this sector greater attention lie precisely in promoting its cultural dimension.
Furthermore, the proposals in the report are, for the most part, worthy of interest.
We can hope that, if they were applied, real progress could be made in the industries and services in the audiovisual sector.
I will oppose strongly any attempts to turn that review into a reform.
The agreement reached in Berlin in 1999 on Agenda 2000 still stands and will be reviewed before the end of 2006 so as to examine the next financial perspective.
Fundamental reform of the CAP at this stage is neither necessary nor desirable.
I reject this notion and support the concept of voluntary modulation which was agreed by the 15 Member States in Berlin.
I fully support the aims of rural development but I firmly believe that direct payments are a key element in keeping alive small family holdings and maintaining rural communities right across Ireland.
With regard to the latter sin, two objectives are clear: to use the low implementation rate as an argument for reducing Community spending on the cohesion countries - with the same thing happening with cooperation and development policies - in the face of enlargement and whilst satisfying the interests of the well-off donor countries; and denouncing 'reforms?
This task was made even more difficult by the extreme uncertainty which followed the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September.
As usual, the monetary policy response of the ECB to such a situation had to look beyond short-term developments, focusing on the risks to price stability over the medium term.
From this perspective, we could see that medium-term inflationary pressures were in fact receding.
The ECB took account of this by reducing interest rates four times in 2001, by a total of 150 basis points.
As a consequence, the minimum bid rate on the main refinancing operations of the ECB - the most important amongst our key interest rates - reached 3.25% in November 2001.
The key ECB interest rates have remained unchanged since November and short and long-term real interest rates have been, in a historical perspective, very low.
The average annual inflation rate in 2001, as measured by the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices, was 2.5%.
Inflation in 2001 was affected by the lagged effects in import price increases in 2000, and by the new impact of livestock diseases on unprocessed food prices.
In fact, monetary policy only affects inflation with a lag and cannot control it in the short term.
We are satisfied that our policy last year was very well understood by our observers and by the markets.
In fact, the level of bond yields, as well as various other indicators of inflation expectations of economic agents, pointed to continued confidence throughout 2001 in the ECB maintaining price stability in the medium term.
There were - and there still are - some concerns about the possible impact of the cash changeover on euro area inflation, which have also been echoed in the draft resolution on the ECB's Annual Report prepared by your Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
In reality, other factors contributed to this increase, such as the rise in vegetable prices related to adverse weather conditions, particularly in southern Europe, and higher tobacco taxes in several euro area countries.
But it has also to be recognised that, in particular in some sectors with a low level of competition, some upward price adjustments might have occurred in connection with the cash changeover.
However, there were also price reductions in the euro area associated with the cash changeover and statistical evidence has so far confirmed that the effect on the overall price level has been contained.
The impact of the terrorist attacks on economic confidence has gradually faded away and economic activity has stabilised.
While the strength of the ongoing recovery is still subject to uncertainty, the most likely scenario is for economic activity to gradually accelerate and reach levels in line with trend potential growth later this year.
Regarding monetary developments, we saw a high demand for liquid and safe assets in the autumn of last year, particularly associated with financial market uncertainty following the terrorist attacks.
We saw some moderation in early 2002 but recent data indicate a new increase in the demand for liquid assets.
These developments need to be closely monitored, as they may start to point to upward risks to price stability, in particular during a period of economic recovery.
Overall, the outlook for price stability is now less benign than it was in November 2001, when we last adjusted the key ECB interest rates.
This again has been partly due to the temporary factors I mentioned before, and to the renewed increase in oil prices in the first quarter of 2002.
The importance of wage developments in line with our definition of price stability cannot be overemphasised.
Wage moderation is a key factor in favouring the expansion of employment and in helping to create the conditions for a sustainable increase in the potential growth rate of the euro area economy.
Current estimates for trend potential growth in the euro area are in the order of 2-2½% and there is much scope for raising potential growth in the euro area.
The ECB will make its contribution by focusing on maintaining price stability in the medium term.
But other policy actors also have to take up their responsibilities.
The Broad Economic Policy Guidelines for 2002, which have just been approved in Seville, place the emphasis quite rightly on the need for further structural reforms in the euro area.
The solidarity pact of our monetary union requires all participants to maintain a medium-term perspective in compliance with the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact.
This implies that budgetary positions in all countries should be close to balance or in surplus over the business cycle as a whole in order to allow sufficient room for a smooth functioning of automatic stabilisers.
We have seen some worrying developments in fiscal policy in some countries over the last few months.
We therefore recall the importance for those countries that still have not achieved a balanced budget position to honour their commitments to catch up with the other countries of the euro area by 2003/2004.
Let me now turn to some other issues raised in the draft resolution on the ECB's Annual Report.
The first pillar of our strategy, which gives a prominent role to the analysis of monetary developments, is based on the empirical evidence of a close and stable relationship between money and prices in the euro area over the medium term.
This then leads me to another point mentioned in the draft resolution, namely the importance for a central bank to take account of asset prices when assessing risks to price stability, while not introducing moral hazard in financial markets through inappropriate reactions to excessive asset price developments.
These projections play an important role for us, but they have by no means an all-encompassing role.
They are an important technical input by ECB and national central bank staff in summarising and assessing the implications of a large body of information for future inflation in a consistent way.
However, we are also fully aware of the difficulties of making projections.
In particular, we recognise that it is impossible to summarise all the relevant information for assessing the maintenance of price stability in one single projection.
We therefore explicitly look at many other indicators and analyses in the context of our two-pillar strategy, and we do not try to hide the complexity of monetary policy-making behind the production of a single Governing Council forecast.
Therefore, our decision to clearly separate the production of the projections from the analysis of the Governing Council is fully transparent as it honestly reflects the decision-making process within the ECB.
As regards communication, we have always taken an approach that ensures a high level of transparency and clarity of our message.
At the same time, we have not changed our view regarding the publication of minutes.
We fear that, given the multi-country context in which the Governing Council works, published minutes - or a procedure in which dissenting views of Council members are published (even without mentioning names) - could lead to undue pressure on national central bank governors to deviate from a euro area perspective.
As I stated in my last testimony, I have some doubts whether this would give more clarity to the markets or more transparency than is the case now.
In any event, I believe it is crucial that we continue to place the emphasis of our communication on the economic rationale behind monetary policy decisions, rather than on a pattern of differing views in the Governing Council.
To conclude my statement, I should like to briefly refer again to the euro cash changeover.
With a single currency, our citizens now have a common symbol of European identity which they use in their daily lives.
In this sense, "the euro, our money" can provide a new and more solid basis on which to build an "ever closer union".
Measures taken by governments in the Euro area to reorganise public finances have created a basis for sustainable economic growth and a strengthening of the euro.
Increased private investment in the Euro area shows that investors have more faith in the future of the Euro zone than they do in the medium-term economic prospects of the United States of America.
Enron, Xerox, Worldcom, as well as any subsequent cases, will probably only serve to strengthen this development.
This raises the question as to how this will affect the ECB's current monetary policy.
I would hope that the ECB will explain the content and role of the first pillar in detail in its monetary policy.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the European Central Bank and its chairman for improvements in its information practices and its positive attitude to dialogue with Parliament regarding monetary policy.
The measures Member States have taken to stabilise their economies have led to a very low average inflation figure over the last three years.
The European Union is founded on common visions - the views of our continent's citizens and statesmen - of how common European challenges should be resolved.
We must bear in mind these visions, these common aims, and, moreover, the jointly agreed principles regarding responsible and sustainable economic policy, when we seek solutions to our continent's political and economic problems.
Congratulations also on the successful introduction of euro notes and coins, which faced us in this House with the problem of having statistics indicating, on the one hand, that the introduction went without a hitch, and, on the other, that there was great public uncertainty, on which paragraph 18 of the resolution is intended to have an effect.
According to one survey, 64% of all members of the public at last feel a little more like Europeans now they have the euro in their pockets.
Parliament was therefore right always to back a campaign of information and to insist that the introduction of euro notes and coins should be understood as a conversion not merely in the technical sense, but also as one with great psychological significance.
That is certainly attributable to Parliament's efforts.
The EU is dependent on this in order to keep the Lisbon process on track.
The European Central Bank bears a great responsibility.
The European Central Bank also has the task of helping to build up financial stability.
You, Mr Duisenberg, have raised objections in the past to such a move, because the Governing Council tends to decide by consensus.
I would like to make it clear that I do not share the criticism over the last year that the ECB has acted too little and too late.
In fact the ECB first cut interest rates in May 2001 despite a continuing rise in inflation, which had still to peak at 3.4%.
The fact that present procedures have not led to mistakes is not an argument against improving them, particularly when this is what the Treaty requires.
Therefore, I hope that the Governing Council will also note its Treaty obligations in the manner of its decision-taking by majority.
Mr President, the ECB's report makes a critical comment to the effect that, in 2001, most of the countries in the eurozone did not succeed in reaching their budget targets.
To put it another ways, budgetary consolidation, second only to the maintenance of price stability as a primary objective of European economic policy, is in danger.
It is unfortunate that Parliament's report does not give adequate emphasis to this issue.
The objective must be the speedy creation of room in which an anti-cyclical economic policy can operate.
Mr President, one would hardly guess, from reading the 2001 annual report of the European Central Bank, which comes across as balanced, technical and calm, that both 2001 and 2000 were disastrous for the euro on the foreign exchange markets.
A simple graph on page 59 shows, however, the drop in the value of the European currency, which is much more significant than all the fluctuations in the participating national currencies since 1994.
Similarly, the graph on page 65 on net financial fluctuations in the eurozone in 2000 and 2001 shows considerable jumps which illustrate the lack of investor interest in either the euro zone, our currency, or both.
In order to remedy this problem, some people are contemplating a more or less forced integration.
In our view, Mr President, we hope that Europe, in spite of this uncomfortable situation, will be able to remain both flexible and liberal.
The euro is a success: more than 50 countries already have an exchange rate regime for which the euro serves, at least in part, as a point of reference.
The debt incurred by companies and private individuals is the cause of particular concern.
Added to this is the realisation that many champions of the new economy are turning out to be manipulative conmen.
During the financial crisis in Asia, many commentators condemned 'crony capitalism', capitalism marked by the complicity within these countries.
Yet, current events in the United States, and in Europe too, show us that those who preached in Wall Street, the City and elsewhere were comfortably ensconced in a sort of self-service set-up where company directors, business bankers, analysts and auditing firms gave one another a helping hand when needed.
The central banks, the EDF and the ECB in particular, must put forward proposals to improve the regulation and supervision of financial markets, including hedge funds.
Article 110(1) of the Treaty grants the European system of central banks the right to issue recommendations and opinions.
I hope and pray for recommendations from the ECB to combat crony capitalism, to introduce better regulation and supervision, in short, to create the conditions to enable us to regain the general public's confidence in an ethical financial sector.
Furthermore, the Member States have been able to continue with their fiscal reform policies which will undoubtedly help to eliminate supply rigidity.
More recently, a combination of monetary policy favourable to growth and a slightly more flexible fiscal policy has sustained cyclical recovery.
The lack of fiscal consolidation in the year 2000, however, when economic growth was flourishing, was at the root of some of the obstacles we are currently faced with, in particular in the most indebted countries.
We therefore believe that our immediate main objective is to continue with fiscal consolidation and structural reform to enable us to improve our capacity for growth.
Secondly, with regard to the euro and its impact on pricing, using quarterly data, Eurostat has come to the conclusion that in the first quarter of 2002, the inflationary impact of the euro was 0.16% in comparison with the final quarter of 2001.
First, because it is difficult to make these calculations; secondly, because, although this overall figure is correct, we believe there are unusually high increments for certain goods and services that are consumed regularly, which gives citizens the impression that the increase has been far greater; and thirdly, because it is equally true that the euro should, in the medium term, contribute to improving the competitive environment and economic efficiency, thus bringing down consumer prices.
One always has to remember that although the members of the Governing Council come from all the Member States, they do not represent their Member States, either in the case of national central bank governors or of their central bank.
They are there in a personal capacity and are completely independent.
That also applies to the decision-making process and at all costs we want to preserve the phenomenon that the Governing Council's decisions are decisions by a collegiate body and that every individual member of that body will defend and describe the outcome of certain discussions as if he had been 100% enthusiastic about those decisions.
On prices and the effects of the costs of changeover, to which various Members have referred, it is true that in the public mind many of the price increases that are being observed are being attributed to the changeover to euro banknotes and coins and the rounding-off effects accompanying it.
Overall, statistically, Eurostat has estimated that of the 0.8% rise in inflation recorded in the first quarter of this year, between 0 and 0.16% could be attributed to the cash changeover.
It is also true that we at the ECB expect inflation for the remainder of this year and for next year to hover around this 2% figure and so we are in a situation where we have to be extremely vigilant with regard to the risks that the figure may exceed the 2% limit over the medium term.
We have to create the climate in Europe by our policies, by our wage trends and by our environment, so as to make Europe a more attractive place to invest in than it has apparently been in recent years.
As regards supervision, the ECB will do everything in its power to fulfil its Treaty mandate to promote the smooth conduct of supervisory practices.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, today we are debating a legislative proposal for a resolution which concerns (a) traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms, (b) traceability of food and feed products produced from genetically modified organisms, and (c) amendment of Directive 2001/18 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
The main aim is to harmonise rules within the European Union in a bid to ensure the internal market operates efficiently and consumers are better informed.
In addition, methods currently available enable even traces of genetically modified DNA or genetically modified protein to be traced.
The second category contains products made from genetically modified organisms but which do not contain DNA or protein or differ in any other way from conventional products.
Like many others, including the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I welcome the Commission proposal on the future scope of labelling equivalent products, that is products made from genetically modified ingredients, where the genetic change in the end product is no longer in evidence.
Current laws stipulate that oil can consist of 100% genetically modified maize without needing to be labelled as such.
The traceability system makes such labelling possible.
In order to ensure maximum freedom of choice for consumers, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy also calls for the labelling of animal products and enzymes.
This particular topic gave rise to discussions in the Committee on the Environment, in which members said they would send back what the Commission had submitted, and wanted only a "not genetically engineered" label.
As regards the amount of the threshold value, I hope that the majority of the whole House will support Amendments Nos 162 to 164, which my group has introduced and which lay down a threshold value of 0.5%, requiring also that the threshold value should be lower if progress in science and technology so permits.
Several of my amendments, furthermore, concern themselves with strengthening the public's right to information, and I hope that the great majority in the plenary will support these as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has done.
We could say the Committee was divided into two, with those in the minority able to see, to their immense satisfaction, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy represent their position more closely than the opinion of their own Committee.
It is the Committee's opinion that labelling should be carried out in such a way that a product is labelled when it is GM-free and not when it contains genetically modified organisms.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has adopted a different position on this from the Committee on Industry, and its views are probably a better response to the need for an increase in consumer choice.
These matters must be resolved in order to put an end to the Council moratorium on genetically modified organisms.
It is no easy task to reconcile the different priorities that must be taken into consideration - first, consumers right to information; secondly, the priority of health and the environment; and thirdly, the functioning of the internal market - and yet this is essential.
I am not aware of any gene that has escaped in this way and flown out into the environment.
We need to be rigorous and serious, we need to adopt the two proposals made by the Commission, which I think are quite reasonable, and try to adapt our proposal to what the market and consumers need.
The first priority has to be keeping consumers informed and giving them the ability to choose.
The third priority is that we must always respect the freedom of the internal market and require of third countries what we are prepared to require of ourselves.
Lastly, ? (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioners, the Environment Committee took on board a large number of amendments proposed by the Legal Affairs Committee, as is only right and proper, as these amendments do away with ambiguities.
There are widely differing views in Parliament on the present Commission proposals on traceability and labelling.
The purpose of the Commission's two proposals is to guarantee that consumers have clear, truthful information about genetically modified organisms in food and feed.
Exactly the same applies to highly refined products such as edible oils or sugar.
Another key question is the threshold for the accidental or technically unavoidable presence of GMOs in products.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the threshold value for the accidental and technically unavoidable presence of GMOs was reduced from the 1% in the Commission proposal to 0.5%.
A threshold value of 0.5% simply cannot be complied with at present.
However, on this point, and this too has to be said, the Commission proposal was very poorly formulated.
Basically, this threshold is a necessary tolerance value, especially in the transition phase, for GMOs which, because of the de facto moratorium, may not yet have been licensed but which have certainly been tested in the EU by the relevant scientific committees and have proven to be harmless to human health and the environment.
Mr President, the two draft regulations and reports we are debating today are important supplements to the Directive on the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment, which we adopted last year.
I am therefore able fully to support the policy of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, designed to ensure that we obtain an effective system of traceability and that, as consumers, we are given a free choice.
We are to be informed as to whether a product consists of, or contains, genetically modified organisms and we are also to be informed as to whether a product has been made from genetically modified organisms.
There would then of course be no possibility of tracing genetically modified organisms which might have proved to have had harmful effects on our health or on the environment.
As a result of their constantly encountering the attitude that consumers should know as little as possible, they lack confidence in these products.
Consumers must have the choice: either with GMO or without, and the label must guide them in a clear and reliable manner.
Our group does not want to label processing aids.
The key problem we will be facing in respect of paper evidence will be fraud.
As for the threshold value, my group will be endorsing 0.5% or lower for accidental presence.
The Eurostat figures clearly show that most consumers want effective labelling.
This system is not watertight either, nor perfect, but I think that my version of the Greek tragedy will claim the least number of victims.
All these reasons may explain why consumers wish to choose something other than GM products.
A labelling system for GM-free products would be a considerably worse solution than that currently proposed.
I would appeal to Members of this House to accept their responsibility for the environment and consumers and to support the line taken on this issue by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and not to give in either to industry or to 10 Downing Street.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote in this House will be a test of whether we want to create more consumer transparency or whether we prefer to defer to industry's interests and keep palming consumers off with genetically modified food on the quiet.
It is totally unacceptable for cold-pressed oil or tomatoes to be labelled, because the proof is there, while as soon as the same oil is heated or as soon as the same tomatoes are made into ketchup, they need no longer be labelled.
We need comprehensive labelling because consumers have a right to know what they are eating.
The Commission must submit more safety measures to prevent contamination because what we need is more labelling and more consumer safety.
Indeed, it would appear that precautions and transparency, which are the basic elements of the Protocol, are to be interpreted in a way which, at times, even distorts their meaning, especially if we read the second regulation, the regulation on traceability and labelling.
If we consider the famine in the southern countries of Africa, it is evident that these problems cannot be solved by means of biotechnology.
The conditions are: protection of the environment and health, freedom of choice for the consumer and 'the polluter pays'.
If the industry is unable to meet these conditions, we need to abandon the marketing of genetically modified food.
Mr President, when we vote on the Scheele and Trakatellis reports on genetically modified products, we have a duty to contribute to defining a credible safety strategy for genetically modified food in order to restore the power of political discourse in this area.
As for unauthorised GMOs in the European Union, we recommend 'zero' tolerance.
It would be contradictory to strengthen the GMO authorisation procedure, on the one hand, and to agree to the presence of unauthorised GMOs in foodstuffs on the other.
In relation to the labelling exemption threshold for adventitious release of GMOs authorised in Europe, we support the 0.5% threshold.
Mr President, the debate on GMOs has often generated more confusion than clarity.
Let us keep in mind that genetic engineering has enabled us to make significant advances and progress in the field of pharmaceuticals, for example.
We must protect consumers against any possible danger, speak openly of the advantages and drawbacks of GMOs by explaining to consumers the risks to which we would be exposed by turning our back on this technology.
However, safety remains the most important ingredient in our food.
Therefore, GM experimentation must be carried out in accordance with the principle of 'step-by-step' scientific validation, on the basis of homogeneous and centralised criteria, and provide the greatest possible transparency in terms of both the conditions governing this experimentation and the results obtained.
Having 15 different authorisation systems merely adds to the confusion, in an area where we actually need harmonisation.
I would therefore like to express some concerns arising from certain proposals put forward in these reports.
The scientific community recommends a threshold of 1% and casts grave doubts upon the ability to bring this threshold down to 0.5% and this does indeed seem unrealistic and impossible at this point in time.
Since the specified threshold for determining the presence of GMOs must be realistic, this question naturally brings us to the issue of labelling.
Introducing this policy naturally requires strengthening of scientific validation, controls and applicable penalties.
I hope that the European Union will inform consumers as fully as possible in order to give them genuine freedom of choice, and that it communicates to them credible information on GMOs, particularly by means of labelling that is clear and easy to read, unambiguous but not excessively so, in other words based on a system which requires complete and reliable information on the presence of GMOs and their derivatives, based on the detectability and on the analysis of genetically modified DNA and protein.
To now attempt to extend this requirement to the labelling of food obtained from animals fed with GMOs poses a problem and may confuse information.
In order to be effective, the two reports before us must be homogeneous.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposal.
The rapporteur's reports have been a genuine attempt to improve that proposal.
I hope it is a step closer to getting the moratorium lifted so that we can start to approve new GM products which will be of benefit to all and utilise the new legislation, of which I was the author last year.
It gives much higher protection than the legislation which is currently used in the crop trials now taking place in the European Union.
We have to tell people the truth about what is in their food.
Mr President, concerns about the effects of GMOs on human health are in the minds of many of us overshadowed by doubts about their effects upon other species of plants or animal life and about the control of the world's seed bank by a handful of companies.
But it is animal and human health which is the issue before us and the ELDR Group is united in its belief that products need to be clearly labelled so that consumers can make proper choices.
A majority accept the Commission proposals but want products with more than 0.5% of GMOs or less if practicable, to be labelled as such.
I am opposed to steps being taken which will eventually lead only to GMO-free or to non-GMO products being labelled if such a thing is possible, because this will result in normal foods being classified as special and transfer the burden of proof and costs away from GMO producers.
Today's debate is about ensuring that consumers have the right to know and to choose between the products on sale to them.
So I am against any amendments designed to restrict the traceability of genetically modified organisms and to restrict it to the final form of the product, whereas with the Commission's proposals we could have a system which gives us more information at all stages of production and hence a more accurate, more complex picture of the origin of the final product.
Mr President, these reports are about allowing people the choice whether or not to eat GM food.
The only way to do that is with an effective labelling and traceability scheme that will tell consumers exactly what they want to know, which is whether the food or feed is being produced using GMOs.
That means labelling food and feed that contain GMOs or have been produced with GMOs, so that when people pick up a packet or a tin in a shop, they can see if this is a GM product or not.
I hope that tomorrow this Parliament will adopt a stringent scheme to give consumers the real choice and the confidence that they are demanding of us.
Basically, letting consumers decide for themselves if they want to eat genetically modified food is a problem, because even highly educated people know very little about the possible side effects.
This means that consumers must be informed as effectively as possible in order that they can make up their own minds.
The European Commission's proposal that is now before us makes the consumer's freedom of choice even less transparent.
Introducing this paper tiger is, in my view, misleading the consumers.
Mr President, the line which prevailed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, thanks, in particular, to the excellent work of our rapporteur, reiterates the need for the particularly rigorous traceability and labelling system proposed by the Commission.
The Union's primary duty is to guarantee maximum security at all the different stages in the production and distribution chain and provide accurate information on the foodstuffs placed on the market.
However, this freedom of choice presupposes a rigorous, unambiguous labelling system which informs the consumer whether products contain genetically modified organisms, whether they are composed of genetically modified organisms, and also whether they have been derived from GMOs or whether GMOs have been used as processing aids.
Indeed, just labelling foods or feedingstuffs in which tests have revealed the presence of modified DNA or protein, overthrowing the Commission's line, would be paving the way for a sort of colonisation of the European agrifoods system.
This might seem an exaggeration, but tomorrow's vote is important for European citizens: on the one hand, we can and must do something to banish their feeling of insecurity, and, on the other, we can and must reinforce the ideal of the Europe of diversities, which can do so much to further its quest for unity.
However, I believe that they have come too late by around 10-15 years, as GMOs are already being used in the production of a very large proportion of our food.
When people started to grow crops and domesticate animals around ten thousand years ago, they also started refining natural properties.
Consumers want natural foods and are against the use of any technology in the production of food.
The greatest danger lies in the procedure for licensing genetically modified organisms in the food chain in the Community, if this contradicts the general product standards laid down in WTO rules.
I shall focus my comments on two important aspects of the Commission's proposals, which, overall, are heading in the right direction.
The two points I wish to make are, first of all, the introduction of a 1% tolerance threshold for unauthorised GMOs, regardless of whether their presence is adventitious or technically unavoidable.
The second important point relates to the problem of co-existence between GM cultures and non-GM cultures.
To deal with this problem by setting contamination thresholds is a totally inadequate approach.
Farmers who are growing or will grow GM crops must clearly ensure that they take all the necessary measures to avoid contamination of conventional products and organic products.
I therefore hope that tomorrow's vote will achieve this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, it would be particularly limiting to think that the two reports before us today only pose food safety problems.
I believe it is important to get away from the emotive aspects of the debate and focus on our role as European legislators, which is to guarantee consumers that we have put a legal framework in place that guarantees the best quality and the safest products.
It is important that legislators listen to all sides and get the balance right, guided by the unassailable principle of safe food for our citizens.
In this respect I believe the Commission has, on the whole, made a very balanced proposal.
It is our responsibility to provide them with the information to make this choice.
In line with this ambition, biotech is top priority in the sixth framework research programme which we approved only recently.
Advances in crop biotechnology promise major benefits for our environment and consumers.
Clearly, their purpose is to prevent all advance in this area of great scientific promise, for that is what these present texts from the Trakatellis and Scheele reports would mean.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy understood these implications for industry, our farmers, our international trade relations, our scientific community and, yes, for our consumers.
I ask the Commission to bear in mind, when it comes to codecision, that this option has support in Parliament.
If it genuinely stands by its biotechnology action plan, it should give this option more consideration.
In this way, information would lose its value in terms of the choices that the consumer wishes to make.
A second point concerns the position of third countries.
Unfortunately, we are now threatening to adopt a different approach and make imports from third countries in practice impossible.
Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece is radically opposed to the directive on the release of genetically modified organisms because we believe that, instead of safeguarding public health and the environment, it safeguards the profits of a few multinationals which, apart from anything else, will gain a stranglehold on the production of foodstuffs.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the major challenge of this directive - and this is what the Commission desires - is to achieve clear labelling, for both food products as well as animal feed and enzymes.
Consumers therefore want to know, and many farmers also want to know, what animals eat.
If we therefore want to give consumers clear information on what they want to know, it is indeed possible.
Can I say you have added to the confusion - as if it were needed - on this particular topic and I am disappointed because we now see two completely different approaches to the same issue, which has done nothing at all to add light and not heat to the subject before us.
If what we do and the legislation we pass is not soundly based in scientific rigour, we bring all the EU regulatory processes into disrepute; and we are going down this road with many of the issues before us in these reports here today.
Not only do we lack scientific rigour in our approach, but we are possibly going to come into conflict with the WTO.
There would be a very important central role for the new EFSA in this whole area, including the rigorous risk assessment of any GM feed prior to authorisation for use in the EU.
Mr President, I was about to welcome my parents to the Chamber but as I was told I had to come back at 9 p.m., I do not know if they have made it back in yet.
One is presently under way in a small village in Munlochy, in the Black Isle, where the local community has even kept vigil at the site of an extensive trial.
Traceability puts the burden of proof on the producer.
The vote tomorrow will determine the future of genetically modified food in Europe.
Mr President, 70% of European people do not want to eat GM food, but we are all eating it unwittingly.
However, consumers are entitled to information about whether or not they are eating GM food.
Christian Democrats and the right-wing Liberals wish to keep the European people in the dark.
In a nutshell, the fundamental aim of this strategy is to strengthen the role that business plays in working towards sustainable development in Europe and beyond.
Many firms have already recognised the importance of responsible business and, as a result, CSR schemes have mushroomed.
However, the European Union can add value by helping stakeholders to make CSR more transparent, more open and ultimately more credible.
This strategy supports business and other stakeholder efforts for a better trade-off between economic, social and environmental needs in a globalised economy.
This forum will bring together leading European representative organisations of employers, employees, consumers and civil society, as well as business networks across Europe.
This forum will exchange good practice and seek consensus on guiding principles for CSR tools, such as codes of conduct, reporting, labelling schemes and evaluation mechanisms.
This responds to one of the requests made to the Commission in the Howitt report on the Green Paper.
In our view, the forum could play a central role in seeking to set out a common European Union approach based on guiding principles agreed by businesses and stakeholders.
The Commission's strategy to promote CSR builds on the voluntary nature of business efforts.
Secondly, the strategy will support the promotion of CSR in small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular through awareness raising and capacity-building initiatives, because CSR is by no means the sole preserve of large multinational firms.
Finally, the Commission will work towards integrating CSR principles across the full range of European Union policies: employment and social affairs, enterprise, development, trade and public procurement.
Secondly, will Commissioner Diamantopoulou repeat her assurance, made to Parliament on 30 May, that if business fails to make progress on annual social and environmental reporting within the two years, the Commission will consider making such reporting mandatory?
Finally, when in section 4.3 the Commission says it will discuss CSR-related legislation with Member States, could she say which legislation she has in mind?
Mr President, I too must express my delight at the fact that the voluntary element has been emphasised in this communication on corporate social responsibility.
I should like to ask the Commissioner how this multi-stakeholder forum is to be organised.
As to what will happen next, it is very important that we respect the spirit of the communication where we say that the forum now has a key role to play.
Secondly, corporate social responsibility - the whole idea was launched years ago by Jacques Delors when he turned to businesses and asked for their support and contribution to agreed European objectives.
It is very important that this activity should be fully taken into account when organising future work, including fora.
As far as the ethical criteria for Community funding are concerned, it would be totally unthinkable that any Community funding could be provided on the basis of criteria which do not fully respect the ethical standards which we share in our Treaty and our values.
The first concerns Mr Howitt's question on what we mean by this proposal for the CSR concerning the legislative frameworks of the Member States.
We can then disseminate the results to the other Member States.
We very much hope that, because of this huge and very constructive contribution by companies and other stakeholders during our consultation process, by the middle of 2004 we will have a concrete report and that the Commission will present its initiative on the basis of this report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the social responsibility of enterprises presents a real challenge.
What worries me is that bankruptcies increased by 19% in Europe and by 32% in Germany last year.
That means that, in Germany alone, 50 000 companies closed and over 100 000 workers lost their jobs.
As far as the problem of job losses is concerned - because it is true that there has been a huge number of job losses during the last two years - I would just like to remind you that there is another Commission initiative concerning social re-structuring.
There is an internal budget which concerns the Commission and aspects of the organisation of the forum, but not as far as participants are concerned.
We need to have participants from the Third World since there is an international dimension to corporate social responsibility.
When we are ready I will announce it in Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hedkvist Petersen, the Commission has published a consultation document on procedural safeguards for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings on the web-site of the Directorate-General for Justice and Home Affairs.
Having studied the responses, the Commission intends to adopt the following practical measures: a meeting of experts will be held, in September, in which the various measures submitted for consultation will be discussed; on the basis of these discussions, the Commission intends to produce, at the end of 2002, a Green Paper on safeguards in criminal proceedings, which will probably cover the issue of time limits on pre-trial detention.
In addition to the work that has already been undertaken on the general aspects of procedural safeguards, the Commission has begun to study the issue of remand in custody and of alternatives to such detention.
This issue will be the subject of another Green Paper, to be presented at the end of the year or at the beginning of 2003, which will examine the issue of legal certainty in relation to individuals who are remanded in custody.
When considering whether the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, specifically Article 5(3), are being complied with, the European Court always studies and assesses the adequacy of the grounds for detention in accordance with the standards of respect for individual freedom and for the presumption of innocence, which underpin any detention without trial.
The framework decision on the European arrest warrant is based on the principle of mutual recognition, which also requires mutual trust in the criminal justice systems of the Member States.
In order to achieve mutual trust and the respect required for a true area of freedom, security and justice, standards of protection conferred on suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings must be equivalent throughout the Union.
It is clear that there are various reasons for different lengths of time on remand, but it is still important that citizens know what times apply and that it is possible to have a decision on remand time reviewed.
Mrs Hedkvist Petersen, I fully agree with you and I would draw your attention to the fact that the European arrest order must respect fundamental rights, and specifically the principles laid down in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, which refers to the European Convention on Human Rights in the field of procedural safeguards.
Following this consultation, the Commission intends to look into whether a legislative measure is needed at European level to approximate these rules, which are common to the Member States and which are contained in the European Convention on Human Rights and, in this way, to increase mutual trust between Member States, whilst at the same time providing guarantees of legal certainty.
I hope to be able to present the conclusions of this investigation to Parliament and the Council at the end of this year.
Question No 55by Marit Paulsen, who has been taken over by Olle Schmidt (H-0493/02): Subject: Concentrations in the foodstuffs sector The foodstuffs sector in Europe is currently marked by a clearly increasing degree of concentration, since a few perishables retail chains have taken control of ever larger shares of the market.
In the Carrefour/Promodes and Rewe/Meinl cases, for example, the Commission has observed that, in those instances where the share of a particular client in the turnover of a particular supplier reaches beyond a certain level, risks that the supplier might go out of business as a result of losing this particular client will appear.
In the Carrefour/Promodes decision the Commission assessed this risk on the French market, but concluded that the criteria necessary to find a collective dominant position had not been met.
Another factor taken into account in assessing market power on the purchasing market is the possible vertical integration into production on the part of a retail chain or its strategic use of own brands.
The analysis of the purchasing market will be particularly relevant in those cases where the merged entity would be a major player on the retail market.
Basle II concerns the capital base of banks.
I would like to assure Members of Parliament that the whole Basle II discussion takes the position of small and medium-sized enterprises fully into account.
In these discussions we are working towards a satisfactory solution which will take adequate account of the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The rules stipulating identical charges is easy to explain to tourists using a payment card or a bank card for withdrawals from cash machines.
This Parliament played an important role in the drafting of the regulation, which provides an example of the practical advantages that Community action can bring to every citizen of Europe and of other countries, should they be in the euro area - advantages as soon as they wish to withdraw money from a cash dispenser.
As someone who has a bank account in Brussels, occasionally comes to Strasbourg, has a bank account in Ireland and travels to other countries, I have noticed in my transaction charges over the recent past huge costs per transaction, particularly here in France, as against in Belgium.
It is a commodity which is available to all citizens, and all those who leave their own country to go to another part of euroland will be happy with it.
I am sure that the national authorities in Ireland will be sufficiently alert and active to help any dissatisfied customer in obtaining what he wants.
These three ways of obtaining redress should prove to be quite adequate.
As regards the last point on how the Commission intends to tell all 370 million citizens of Europe about this facility, I would firstly like to say that the tourist who goes abroad, at least within the euro area, will immediately know about this facility because when he draws cash out of the wall he will see on the slip what the charges are.
Secondly, the banks are under an obligation to inform customers not only about the rates which they charge on transferring money or obtaining money through cash dispensers abroad, but also to advise all their customers if there is a change in the rate.
I hope this answer satisfies Mr Crowley.
I am not sure whether I understood the question, but I believe that the honourable Member wants me to say whether the question by Mr Crowley was organised by the Commission today so that the whole thing could be explained again publicly in Parliament.
That is because the public has wanted this sort of regulation for many years.
According to the regulation, a spirit drink to which ethyl alcohol is added loses the right to use the generic name fruit spirit in any form in its presentation.
Thank you, Commissioner, for such a precise reply.
In response to the protectionist measures taken by the United States, the European Union has put in place a three-pronged strategy, whose aim is to enforce respect for our rights within the multilateral trading system.
The first point is to bring action before the WTO seeking condemnation of the American measures; the second point is to adopt a European safeguard designed to maintain access to the European market whilst protecting it from trade flows which, without access to the US market, would stream back to the European market; the third point is to demand compensation from the United States for the losses suffered by European exporters as a result of the American measures, which is in line with our understanding of the WTO texts on safeguard clauses.
We have not yet imposed additional customs duties on American products, but we now have a Council regulation that was adopted on 13 June 2002 and which gives the Union the option of suspending tariff charges, to use the appropriate language of the WTO, on certain American products, as of the 18 June 2002.
Our main objective is to obtain, in the short term, an exclusion and/or compensation package, which may mean further time will need to be spent at the negotiating table, and we shall, as agreed with the Council, report back before 19 July on the progress made on this issue.
In the light of this report and our recommendations, a decision may or may not be taken to impose additional duties on a limited number of American products, to a value of approximately EUR 400 million.
This regulation will impose increases in custom duties on a trade amount equivalent to the loss incurred, in other words for a much greater amount, of more than EUR 2 billion, if the United States do not withdraw their measures after they have been condemned by the WTO, which means towards the middle of 2003.
The question is; what is the impact of the American measures on employment?
An assessment of the impact of the American measures on employment in the steel manufacturing industry in Europe is both difficult and premature.
Difficult because the American measures only have a limited life span and because, following the increase in steel prices in the United States and elsewhere, European steel companies tend to delay their reaction to events for several months and continue, therefore, to employ workers whom they have trained and who are competent and productive.
Premature because the impact will depend on the level of exemptions that we obtain from the American Administration and also on the openings that European steel industries find in other markets for products that are banned from sale in the United States.
This being the case, it is clear that European steel companies that must pay these customs duties - which can increase prices by up to 30% - are at a huge disadvantage compared to companies that do not have to pay them.
At this stage, therefore, we cannot give any more statistics.
We do not have any specific statistics on the impact of the American measures in each Member State, since this is managed at Union level and since our partners in dialogue are the steel companies, most of which are now based in several European countries.
Paradoxically, it is in the United States where the impact on employment risks being acute, particularly in the sectors of the American economy that use steel and which will probably be the most affected in the short term, due to their inability to pass price increases onto their own customers or due to the fact that such a situation will lead these customers to look to other continents.
I would like to thank Commissioner Lamy for his reply.
Our aim, Mr Sacrédeus, is to avoid there being a 'later', by that I mean that the Americans withdraw these measures as soon as possible, in other words, before they are condemned by the WTO - which would obviously be the best solution, but quite unlikely, to be honest - or when they are condemned by the WTO, which should happen, we estimate, towards the middle of next year.
We shall use the measures that the WTO allows us to take in view of our interests and the fact that the United States will ultimately have to comply with international rules.
Mr Rübig, the answer to your question is yes.
The protectionist measures taken by the US have caused a significant price increase in the American market.
Elsewhere, including in Europe, prices are currently suffering a short-term decline.
The price difference between the American market and the European market has increased.
To take the example of hot-rolled steel, the price in Europe is approximately EUR 250 per tonne compared with EUR 400 per tonne in the United States.
The difference is therefore considerable.
We have not yet received an answer to this question, but my personal prediction is unfortunately not optimistic.
The second point is I think that we are trying to protect the Union's interests and to ensure compliance with international trade rules.
If all the members of the WTO decided to use the safeguard clause in generating the interpretation that the Americans are currently using, there would undoubtedly be chaos in a number of world markets.
Mr Purvis is forcing me to comment on press articles, which is always extremely dangerous, but let us say that, once again, I am not entirely in agreement with what is written in the Wall Street Journal.
When Congress, namely the Senate and the House, decides to grant the American Administration the authority to negotiate both multilaterally and bilaterally, we will see, essentially, whether American policy continues to practice trade liberalism, which has, admittedly, occasionally deviated from the accepted path, as usual, to protect United States' interests, or if, on the other hand, we shall again experience much more testing times, in which case our own options will certainly be reviewed very carefully.
Question No 59 by Margrietus J.
The question is concerned with intellectual property rights and access to medicines.
You know that the Doha Declaration on intellectual property rights and public health instructs the WTO Council for TRIPS to find an expeditious solution to the problems facing WTO member countries whose production capacity in the pharmaceuticals sector is insufficient or non-existent or who are experiencing difficulties in the effective use of compulsory licensing.
These poor countries have neither sufficient flexibility nor the capacity to negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies located in the countries which are able to issue a compulsory licence.
It is therefore perfectly possible that they will encounter more difficulties than other countries in benefiting from any sizeable reductions in the prices of essential medicines.
We, for our part, believe that an expeditious solution is a solution that would enable the situation within the WTO to be resolved before the end of the year.
In March, the Union submitted a communication proposing two courses of action.
The first of these is based on the interpretation of Article 30 of the intellectual property agreement and the other is based on an amendment to Article 31.
Other Members made oral proposals and four options were put forward: either to interpret Article 30, to amend Article 31, to declare a moratorium on the settling of disputes or, finally, to make provision for a system of derogations.
A further meeting of the Council for TRIPS took place last week and at that meeting we submitted a new document, based on our reflections and on our examination of proposals from various quarters, suggesting an amendment to Article 31.
We propose that a new paragraph be added to that article, establishing a clearly defined exception to the restriction laid down by Article 31 in the area of the granting of export licences for pharmaceutical products manufactured under compulsory licence.
With this in mind, an amendment to Article 31 would have better prospects than a clarification of Article 30, in so far as no member of the WTO has ruled out the possibility of amending Article 31, whereas some members, and not the least important ones, are firmly opposed to any clarification of Article 30.
The developing countries in question, which are our main concern, have indicated that they would be willing to look at the amendment to Article 31 that we have proposed.
Other views are being expressed in Geneva and we shall continue, in the spirit in which we have acted so far, to try to find a solution that will reconcile the major principles of intellectual property, on the one hand, with the possibility, on the other, of enabling the poorest countries to have access to the medicines which are absolutely essential to them.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for his answer.
He rejects a waiver, a moratorium or an exemption by way of solution, and we share his view on this.
The pharmaceutical industry is probably behind this.
Indeed, many legal experts claim that, where Article 31 is concerned, this decision is no longer in the hands of the country in question but is to be taken at WTO level.
In principle, Mr van den Berg, I admit that the way in which you present the problem is correct.
We favour Article 31 over Article 30.
In the case of Article 31, the problem of determining whether the country requesting imports of generic medicines is experiencing an emergency situation is not a question that must automatically be referred to the WTO.
Together, we can formulate a restrictive definition, as we did in the case of Article 6 at Doha, of what constitutes a national emergency.
I would remind the House that, in the cases to which Article 31 applies, the country which wants to import medicines will have to ask either a developed country that has the production capability and which holds a compulsory licence, or another developing country.
I believe, therefore, that, from this point of view, there is no risk of the system being too restricted, which is, I believe, what is worrying you.
On the contrary, I believe that it is precisely by making use of Article 30 that we would multiply the imperatives involved, which would make access to the medicines more difficult.
The main objective of the meeting was to debate on issues related to atmospheric pollution.
The information contained in those replies will be assessed with a view to checking whether Greece has respected its obligations under European Community environmental legislation.
In particular regarding the measures to comply with the Court's judgment concerning failure to establish and implement an effective system of strict protection of the caretta caretta sea turtle, the Greek authorities have described the system of protection which contains the legislative and concrete protection measures.
We expect the notification on the caretta caretta case in July.
This report includes measured concentrations in seafood off the Welsh coast and Bristol Channel near Cardiff.
The results of these investigations show enhanced levels of tritium in fish and mussels caught close to an industrial facility manufacturing radioactive materials for use in medicine, research and industry.
Even assuming seafood consumption above average, the measured levels of tritium in fish from Cardiff Bay result in radiation doses far below the annual dose limit for the members of the general public.
References to tritium releases into the marine environment and to the issue of organically-bound tritium are included in the Marina II study on the radiological exposure of the European Community from radioactivity in North European marine waters.
However, the discharge of Tritium from the BNFL Sellafield reprocessing plant in Cumbria and Chapelcross Nuclear Power Station, to mention only one discharge, is extremely large - millions of litres of tritiated water and air every year.
In fact the dose could be 12 times more dangerous for children according to the recent study.
I am glad that you say that it will be referred to in the Marina II study.
I understand that they have initiated research on the problem and will look at the reasons for the increase in the doses.
It is also an issue for the Commission in the sense that EU legislation does not provide for maximum permitted levels of tritium in foodstuffs.
Together with the International Commission on Radiological Protection and with a group of experts set up under the terms of Article 31, the Commission is currently discussing the possibility of fixing maximum permitted levels of tritium in foodstuffs.
That is an important piece of information for you and of course the Marina II study will also have to look into this issue.
It is an obligation for us to follow these cases very closely and to make sure that we act accordingly.
The fish used for this dish are caught both in third countries and by the European fleet.
Finally, may I point out that we also make a clear commitment to responsible, sustainable fisheries in non-Community waters in our proposed reform of the common fisheries policy.
We want to use our fisheries agreements to help third countries manage stocks in a sustainable manner.
Each Member State can then decide how these days at sea are to be divided between ships, and hence between larger and smaller ships, on the basis of social and economic considerations.
My question, Commissioner, would be, given this concern for sustainability, would you accept my invitation and that of my Group to visit Andalusian fishing ports, to come fishing with us for a couple of days, to see the problems of sustainability, the social and economic problems and the alternatives?
I think this is very important if your position is to be credible and it would be fundamental with regard to the citizens and all the criteria that we, who defend fishing, also want to incorporate.
When we decided on the fisheries reform proposals in the Commission, we also said that we were prepared to discuss continuing help for these small in-shore fishing fleets in particular with the Member States, and of course with Parliament, during Council negotiations.
We take exactly the same view here.
But one thing is clear: compared with the Atlantic, the proportion of small ships is several times bigger in the Mediterranean and most fishing is done by these small ships, not big ones.
Mr President, honourable Members, the Atlantic Dawn is duly entered on the official Irish fishing fleet register and has therefore also been entered on the Community fleet register.
The Atlantic Dawn is entitled to fish in European waters under the Irish quotas.
The Irish Government then notified us during the course of these proceedings that it was making further capacity reductions so as to ensure that it did not exceed overall capacity in this segment in the future.
The Atlantic Dawn and the Veronica are landing in Las Palmas.
When you mention the reduction of capacity in the Irish fleet, you are overlooking the fact that the Veronica is the reduction and that it has now gone to a flag-of-convenience country where it can fish without any controls whatsoever.
Question No 67 by Caroline F.
Jackson (H-0505/02): Subject: The 'Atlantic Dawn' and the Mauritanian fishery Can the Commission confirm that the Irish vessel 'Atlantic Dawn', based in Las Palmas, is currently fishing in Mauritanian waters under the EU fishing agreement, or private agreement, with that country, having got round the rules for the size of trawlers by registering not as a trawler but as a merchant ship?
The owner of the Atlantic Dawn obtained this licence directly from the Mauritanian Government and it is therefore beyond our control.
In order to clear up any misunderstanding on the question of infringement proceedings, I said that Ireland is outside the MGP targets for the pelagical segment.
But the Atlantic Dawn has been properly registered, which is why proceedings against the Atlantic Dawn have been suspended.
The Atlantic Dawn seems to be something of a mystery ship, operating off the coast of Ireland, Mauritania or wherever.
We cannot go marching into Mauritania or Morocco because they have granted a private ship a licence.
Question No 64 by Camilo Nogueira Román (H-0476/02): Subject: Fishery resources in Community waters and the Danish fleet's catches for fish meal Denmark enjoys a privileged position as far as its fishing rights in Community waters are concerned, with a maximum allowable catch equal to that of France and Spain together.
Mr President, the use of fish meal and fish oil in aquaculture has increased considerably over recent years, mainly because aquaculture per se has increased considerably.
According to figures from the international association of fish meal and fish oil manufacturers, 10% of fish meal and 16% of fish oil were used in aquaculture in 1990.
Danish landings processed into fish meal and fish oil total between 1 and 1.5 million tonnes of fish a year.
The main species are sandeel at 60%, sprats at around 20%, Norway pout at around 6% and blue whiting, again at around 6%.
Before 1996, industrial fisheries in the North Sea, the Skagerrak and the Kattegat were still taking by-catches of herring, whiting and haddock.
In 1996, the Community introduced by-catch rules and a comprehensive monitoring and control system and, since then, by-catches really have fallen massively and no longer present any risk to table fish.
We have therefore already written to the ICES asking for scientific advice on how these by-catches can be avoided in future.
I find the figures supplied by Commissioner Franz Fischler extremely confusing and I hope that the working group studying the impact on resources for human consumption finishes its work before the reform of the common fisheries policy is implemented.
Question No 65 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0497/02): Subject: Tobacco cultivation How many women workers are employed in tobacco cultivation in the EU?
Mr President, my answer to this is as follows: of course the Commission knows how many farms grow tobacco in the European Union.
Mr President, with regard to the continued production of tobacco in Granada, I would like to know if the accession of Poland, a producer country, or trade with Zimbabwe, could lead to a reduction in the quantity of tobacco grown in the province of Granada.
I can provide you with the number of women working in the tobacco sector in Granada, but it is surprising that, when the level of cultivation in Europe is so high, you, as European Commissioner for this sector, do not know the number of women - which is what I was asking you - or the number of young farmers.
Perhaps we could take the initiative of approaching the Statistics Office and suggesting that these data be broken down by gender in future.
The problem we shall face within the European Union in the future will basically be determined by the fact that there is a Parliament initiative to stop subsidising tobacco cultivation.
As the time allocated to Question Time to the Commission has elapsed, and given that Question No 67 was answered together with Question No 63, Question No 66 and Questions Nos 68 to 86 will be replied to in writing.
But the most important criterion must be that this framework legislation is practicable.
More importantly, it must be in keeping with WTO rules and not hamper the development of biotechnology in Europe with excessive red tape.
We need, first and foremost, a practicable regulation on the accidental and technically unavoidable presence of GMOs in products which are not genetically modified.
The threshold value of 1% in the Commission proposal is reasonable and realistic and a useful guide for manufacturers and consumers.
The position on my side is clear and, as it is already late, I shall forego the two minutes' speaking time.
Around 86% of those surveyed in the European Union said that they would like to know more before eating genetically modified food.
I would like to say something about the concept of 'adventitious presence', a concept which is used to indicate the unintended presence of small quantities of a specific atypical material in another material.
Amendment No 9 in the proposal places farmers operating according to normal farming practice in real difficulties.
What we are giving consumers to believe, of course, is that, when they finally find something among the rows and rows of labelled products which does not have a GMO label, these remaining products are completely clean.
They will have a hard time of it in any case, because things are about to get worse.
My dear Commissioners, my confidence in you knows no bounds.
The Commission proposed in the White Paper on food safety on 12 January 2000 that it would submit a regulation on labelling GM-free food and that would be a wonderful, rounded addition to your proposal.
I have every confidence in you.
This also raises the question of whether accidental contamination can be avoided completely.
And that would be an untenable situation both for Europe's farmers and for consumers.
Authorisation to place genetically modified products on the market must therefore, in accordance with this legislation and in accordance with the precautionary principle, provide a high level of protection for public health and the environment.
Traceability makes it easier to implement measures after a product has been placed on the market, for example in terms of monitoring the product or recalling it.
This proposal states that genetically modified products are to be monitored at all the stages of placing on the market.
It also dictates that products containing genetically modified organisms must be labelled at all the stages of placing on the market.
We believe these measures are an important step on the road to re-establishing consumer and public confidence.
Therefore, the Commission cannot support amendments of this nature.
This would allow relevant labelling of products which have been produced from genetically modified organisms but which no longer contain modified DNA or protein.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 2 and 6 which link the precautionary principle to the proposal.
Therefore, the Commission cannot accept the amendments concerning this issue - Amendment No 27 in its entirety and Amendment No 3 in part.
It is important to be able to identify genetically modified organisms which are to be deliberately planted out in the environment for cultivation, as such products contain viable genetically modified organisms which may multiply and spread.
Therefore, the Commission believes it to be both appropriate and sufficient that products containing genetically modified organisms for food, feed or processing, including in bulk shipments, should be accompanied by documentation stating the fact, along with a list of the unique codes for the genetically modified organisms which may conceivably be included in the product or the shipment.
The Commission also believes that the period for which there should be a requirement to keep information and documentation for the purposes of traceability should be limited to five years.
The Commission cannot therefore accept the changes aimed at extending this time period to ten years, i.e.
In this context, it is necessary to repeal Article 4.6 of the directive stating that the Member States shall take measures to ensure traceability at all stages of the placing on the market of GMOs.
In the same way, the Commission rejects Amendment No 32, which entails new authorisations being forbidden until unique codes are allocated to genetically modified organisms in line with this proposal.
Finally, I would like to say a few words on unintentional occurrence and threshold values.
This means that genetically modified material unintentionally and unavoidably occurs in imported products, particularly bulk shipments of grain for food, feed and processing.
I repeat that the Commission fully supports the principle of establishing threshold values for unintentional occurrence, as proposed in a number of amendments.
The vote in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy frequently resulted in amendments being rejected or adopted by a very low margin.
This highlights the difficulty of the subject - but also, in my opinion, serves to show that the Commission proposal strikes a good, sensible and balanced compromise between the differing views.
The first is the scope of the proposal.
Amendments propose to extend the scope of the proposal to processing aids and animal products from animals fed on GM feed and also to restrict the scope of the proposal to products derived from GMOs which contain detectable modified DNA or protein.
However, to extend its scope to products such as milk, eggs and meat from animals fed on GM feed would radically depart from existing food legislation concerning animal products.
The Commission does not believe that including products from animals fed on GM feed in the scope of the regulation is either feasible or practicable.
The Commission therefore firmly rejects amendments to that effect.
Allow me now to address the amendments, tabled last week, that aim to restrict the scope of the proposal, both in respect of authorisation and in respect of labelling.
The Commission proposes to expand the current labelling requirements, and to require the mandatory labelling of food, food ingredients and feed produced from a GMO, even when modified DNA or protein is not present - that is, not detectable in the food, feed, or in the ingredient.
A number of them have clearly indicated that they would not support the authorisation of new GMOs if labelling and traceability of GM derivatives was not required.
The reality is that a great number of regulatory requirements and legal rights, from mandatory labelling of the geographic origin of products to intellectual property rights, are enforced without any recourse to physical checks.
None of the practical difficulties predicted in connection with GM labelling has proven insurmountable in these contexts.
It is probably for this very reason that those who oppose the mandatory labelling of products not containing modified DNA or protein also propose to exempt these products from authorisation.
It would turn the clock back more than five years, before the adoption of the Novel Foods Regulation, at the very time that international consensus is emerging, particularly in Codex Alimentarius, that all foods produced from GMOs should be subject to a pre-marketing approval process.
The message to our consumers would be unacceptable.
But let us look at this again at second reading.
There is an overwhelming risk that the public would be misled by a GMO-free labelling regime because of the fact that such guarantees cannot be given to the public and to try to do so by a mandatory labelling regime, supported by the law of the Community, would, in my view, run the risk of bringing the law into disrepute.
Therefore, having put this objective into the White Paper on food safety two years ago, we thought long and hard about this.
Concerning environmental risk assessment, a series of amendments challenge the suggestion that the European Food Safety Authority should carry out the environmental risk assessment as part of the overall assessment of a GM food or feed.
In Directive 2001/18 it was envisaged that there would be sectoral legislation, brought forward in due course.
The Commission considers that these requirements are fully provided for by the proposed GM food and feed regulation.
The Commission would be prepared to accept some of the amendments to increase further the level of public availability of information, but I do not consider it appropriate or reasonable to try to amend general comitology rules through this instrument.
It would simply not be feasible or practicable if the proposals did not provide for any tolerance - under certain conditions - for small traces of food and feed of GMOs or GM material.
Indeed, even when an operator makes an effort to avoid using GMOs or GM material, traces may be technically unavoidable during cultivation, harvest, transport and processing.
However, some of these GMOs have been awaiting final approval for some time.
I therefore consider it sensible that the proposal allows for these GMOs and GM material, which have been found safe in terms of a complete positive risk assessment from the EU Scientific Committee, to be present in food or feed up to a maximum of 1%.
We must make a clear distinction between unauthorised GM material for which an application has never been made and GM material for which an application has been made, a scientific assessment has been made by the Scientific Committee, a risk assessment has been positive in favour of that application, but no authorisation has yet been granted because of the existence of the moratorium.
I believe that we should follow the principle established in Directive 2001/18, which provides for thresholds to be fixed in comitology procedure in order to take into account technological and scientific progress.
If we ever need to amend, we will have to do so by the normal procedures that we are used to, which may very well take more than a year or two to do.
Furthermore, I firmly believe that they also provide the right approach to foster public confidence and social acceptance of the application of biotechnology in agri-food production.
I hope that Parliament understands the reasoning behind the decision to reject or to accept in part only some of the amendments put forward.
I do not propose to read them out one by one, but I trust that this will be included in the Minutes of this sitting The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, today's debate is on the joint draft decision adopting the programme of Community action in the field of public health from 2003 to 2008, as unanimously approved on 8 May by the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee with the Council.
The adoption of the programme of Community action in the field of public health is the first integrated endeavour by the European Union in the field of public health protection.
Public health protection is currently one of the main concerns of the citizens of the Union.
Health has to take priority over political or economic compromises. ?he programme to replace sectoral and fragmentary Community action on health with an integrated programme on 1 January 2003 is based mainly on preventing disease and helping to establish quality standards in the public health sector.
This programme builds on the existing eight programmes and on the work of the network for epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases in the Community and seeks to pursue a more integrated and global health strategy.
The three general objectives are: first, improving information and knowledge for the development of public health, secondly, reacting rapidly and in a coordinated manner to health threats and, thirdly, health promotion and disease prevention by tackling health determinants in all political activities.
In addition, a Commission declaration on article 7 - related to the funding - foresees that the financial framework will be reviewed in the context both of the accession of new Member States and preparations for the revision of the financial perspective.
In order to ensure the effective implementation and coordination of the programme, a second Commission declaration was made on the structural arrangements, to ensure the programme will function better.
Finally, most of the European Parliament's amendments, 37 of the 50 proposed at second reading, were accepted by the Council, either in full or in a reworked form, and are included in the joint draft.
Mr President, first of all let me congratulate my friend, the rapporteur Professor Trakatellis, on his excellent work.
Remarkably he actually succeeded at conciliation in increasing the funding allowed beyond the initial proposals of the Commission to EUR 380 million over five years, which contrasts with the initial Council proposal of only EUR 280 million.
EU action in public health is still in the minds of some controversial, as not only is there a risk of duplication with the World Health Organisation's European activities, but also potentially a conflict with the fact that delivery and funding of health provision is exclusively the competence of the Member States.
If EU initiatives highlight best practice or stimulate demand for expensive treatments or disease prevention measures, then this may cause budgetary problems for Member States.
Nevertheless, the focus on lifestyle changes as health determinants, with a focus particularly on information dissemination on smoking, excess alcohol consumption, nutrition and exercise, go a long way to reducing this risk.
Nevertheless, in spite of what I have said, I engaged constructively at the first reading, along with a number of my colleagues in the Conservative Party, in highlighting the issue of mental health as a priority need and the need to set up formal structures which will coordinate the disparate funded activities and bring together the whole programme at the centre with direction and leadership.
Lastly, a rapid reaction system to respond to impending health threats, as we have seen with the dioxin scandal in Belgium or the BSE crisis, is highly appropriate.
It is the sort of thing which will bring the EU closer to the peoples of Europe who probably care much more about health policy than almost anything else on the political agenda.
Mr President, Commissioner, today we are in the final stage of approving an ambitious public health programme.
This programme has three objectives: improving information and knowledge, reacting rapidly to health threats and tackling health determinants through health promotion and disease prevention.
Obviously, if these objectives are to be achieved, we need to create a mechanism which guarantees permanent surveillance and coordination, which enhances efficiency and which provides information to the Member States on best practices and the overall evaluation of the programme.
I think that, if we want to respond to the needs and objectives of this particular programme, we need to ensure that it has the necessary resources.
The European Parliament proposed the sum of EUR 380 million and I think the Council should have accepted this, given that much of this money has already been spent on programmes already running until the end of 2002.
Similarly, the new programme will apply not just to the fifteen Member States, but to the ten new Member States as well.
Finally, biological terrorism was added to the original objectives after the events of 11 September.
The final sum of EUR 312 may be more than the sum proposed by the Commission or the Council, but it does not satisfy me.
On behalf of the Liberal Group, I should also like to express our satisfaction.
The result obtained at the conciliation stage, and I must emphasise this, would not have been possible without the perseverance of Professor Trakatellis, or without the constructive cooperation between the delegation of our Parliament, the Spanish Presidency and the staff of Commissioner Byrne.
Despite the bitter negotiations concerned, essentially, with budgetary aspects, the three institutions wanted, above all, to send a joint message to the citizens of Europe.
The lack of food safety, and the increase in the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, particularly among young people, mean that we need, more than ever before, this type of coordinated action at Community level in order to prevent diseases.
Admittedly this is less than the EUR 380 million that we were hoping for, but nevertheless it is much more than the EUR 280 million initially granted by the Council.
We can therefore say that this compromise is a victory for our Parliament and that, in this House, political will, rather than budgetary dogmatism, has won the day.
Throughout the course of the codecision process, you have put in an enormous amount of work - by analysing the various issues and by putting forward new ideas and approaches.
These three areas of action respond to the priorities and concerns of European citizens, and will enable the programme to be of direct relevance to them.
I would like to draw attention to the two declarations made by the Commission to help reach an agreement on these issues.
The first one concerns the budget.
It was made to take account of concerns expressed by your delegation about whether the budget of EUR 312 million was adequate for the programme, particularly in view of the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union.
The Commission declared that: 'The financial framework of the programme shall be reviewed in the context both of accession of new Member States and the preparation for the revision of the financial perspective, taking account of the establishment of the structural arrangements, and of developments concerning key priorities - financial proposals will be made, if appropriate?.
This underlines our full agreement with Parliament about the need to ensure that this important programme operates as effectively as possible.
To conclude, let me again thank the rapporteur, Professor Trakatellis, the Environment Committee, and indeed the whole Parliament for their excellent work on this programme.
I am confident that the final version that has emerged will enable us to make a real contribution to improving the health of European citizens.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Baia Mare, Aznalcóllar and, in particular, Toulouse and Enschede, have become synonymous with human and environmental tragedies to which we have a responsibility to provide a clear response.
It is against this sensitive backdrop that the Commission presented to Parliament and the Council its proposal for a directive amending Directive 96/82 of 9 December 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances, better known as the Seveso II Directive.
We must therefore acknowledge the Commission's intention to tackle the shortcomings of Directive 96/82 in a constructive spirit, which means that we can now send a clear message to both the chemical industry and the people.
In practice, the proposal modifies two fundamental criteria: the minimum thresholds for the presence of substances in sites and the inclusion or reclassification of new activities or dangerous substances, in order to strengthen controls and reinforce accident prevention.
The accidents that occurred at Baia Mare in Romania and Aznalcóllar in Spain have led the Commission to bring mining operations and landfill sites within the scope of the directive too.
Secondly, the disaster in Enschede has led the Commission to draw up new provisions on explosives.
For technical reasons and because of lack of time, the issue of ammonium nitrate, the substance responsible for the explosion, has not been addressed by the Commission.
With the full support of the Commission, Parliament and the Council are currently endeavouring to fill this gap.
The issue of ammonium nitrate is extremely complex and it has required a great deal of debate to establish the appropriate subdivision and thresholds for the different types of ammonium nitrate to limit the risks of accident to a minimum.
What we have to work out is whether we should adopt the more rigid position at European level as regards thresholds or whether, on the basis of Article 176 of the Treaty, we should allow any States which consider it necessary to adopt additional, more restrictive measures, as, moreover, they are already able to do.
For my part, I am again tabling in plenary an amendment which provides for a higher threshold for the fourth category of ammonium nitrate products, to ensure without a shadow of doubt that agricultural holdings are excluded from the directive's scope.
Lastly, and this is my very last point, I would remind you that the Commission has endeavoured to strengthen provision for public information, which is something I feel will be especially beneficial and, above all, which we have a duty to our fellow citizens to provide.
Seveso and Bhopal are places where serious accidents have taken place.
Thirdly, cooperation and coordination in Brussels must be improved, because we need to draw as many lessons as possible from near disasters.
The duty to communicate applies just as much to ourselves, the Commission and national authorities.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Lisi, we are all mindful of the recent industrial disasters which have cast a shadow over Europe.
These accidents have taken place in spite of the legislation currently in force.
As far as the products are concerned - and this has already been mentioned - the Commission has revised the list and the thresholds in order to take into account not only the various accidents which have happened but also developments in scientific data.
However, we believed that it was also necessary to amend the thresholds for ammonium nitrate so as to take into account the accident in Toulouse.
It is therefore necessary to involve them in implementing external emergency plans, by allowing representatives of the local population to take part in consultative committees and also to inform the population as a whole about the risks and about what they should do if there is a problem.
Measures to protect neighbouring populations must take into account the difficult coexistence between dangerous installations and residential areas.
Amendments along these lines were adopted by the Committee on the Environment.
The Group of the Greens and my group proposed two amendments requiring the executive committee to develop a methodology for defining safe distances with regard to future businesses and residential areas, but also to take into account other criteria in current evaluations.
We believe that these proposals are essential, but if they are to be given their full potential they must also be accompanied by legal responsibility on the part of the authorities which are responsible for urban affairs.
Too many major accidents have continued to occur since the adoption of the first directive in 1976.
Following the tragedies of Baia Mare and Enschede, the revision of this directive was chiefly intended to broaden its scope to cover mining activities, and to reduce the thresholds for pyrotechnical substances.
On 21 September last year, the position changed following the catastrophe at the AZF factory in Toulouse, a very cruel reminder of the reality of the situation.
Article 9 is the backbone of this directive.
On this subject, the Liberal Group welcomes the adoption, at the committee stage, of Amendments Nos 17 to 19.
Also for safety reasons, we believe it is essential, as stipulated in Amendment No 39, to lower the thresholds for the fourth category of ammonium nitrates, those consisting of rejects, similar to the substances that exploded in the warehouse at the AZF factory.
Finally, Madam President, the competent national authorities must ensure compliance with the on-site obligations, which are to be reinforced here, by means of Seveso III.
We must never relax our campaign against the trivialisation of risks in certain industries.
According to the results of the inquiry, the AZF factory did not comply with the regulations required under Seveso II.
We are also seeking support for Amendments Nos 49 to 55, and particularly the last two.
Amendment No 54 will make it possible to extend the safety margins around new high-risk installations, to include, amongst other things, apartment blocks, transport routes, industrial buildings and recreation areas.
Thus amended, the revised Seveso II Directive could be a valuable tool in the management of the territory of the European Union.
The second amendment which I should like to defend concerns the calculation of appropriate minimum safety distances between future buildings covered by the Directive and the sensitive areas listed in Paragraph 1.
We believe, in fact, that it is essential that the Commission should, within three years, submit a methodology designed in conjunction with the Member States, in order to establish this minimum safety distance.
On 3 October last year I made a declaration here in Parliament on the Toulouse accident.
However, I remain convinced that it is not because of deficiencies in the Seveso II directive that the Toulouse accident happened.
Nor am I of the opinion that legislation is the only means to ensure industrial safety.
As long as we face problems of enforcement, we should rather concentrate our efforts on good cooperation, both within industry and public authorities, in order to improve safety in practice and not by the letter of the law.
As you are aware, the Seveso II directive has replaced the original Seveso directive of 1982 that had been in force for more than 15 years.
Seveso II itself represented a major revision of the European major hazards legislation and has only been applicable for three years.
I therefore stress that the Commission does not intend to move from Seveso II to Seveso III at this point in time.
Having said this, I regret to say that only a few of the 55 amendments proposed actually address issues raised in the Commission proposal itself.
The majority of the other amendments seem to have been developed under the cloud of the tragic accident in Toulouse and address issues unrelated to the scope of the directive.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the AZF site in Toulouse was fully covered by the Seveso II directive unlike Baia Mare and Enschede.
It has been repeatedly stated, including in the report of the inquiry commission set up by the French Assemblée Nationale, that the Seveso II directive contributes significantly to improving safety.
Moreover, some of the suggested changes will actually increase red tape with no direct impact on safety.
Nevertheless, the Commission has had a careful look at all amendments proposed with a view to accepting as many as possible.
It is not meant to be mining legislation or waste legislation and the future directive on mining waste management should cover safety aspects of disposal facilities.
Secondly, as regards explosives, the definition of the two new categories for explosives are the result of a multi-stakeholder consultation aimed at reinforcing the directive while not placing undue burdens on industry.
The Commission therefore rejects Amendment No 49.
Member States have the possibility to make use of Article 176 of the EC Treaty to introduce lower threshold levels at national level as the Netherlands has done.
Regarding ammonium nitrate, the Commission can accept Amendment No 39, in principle Amendment No 48, and in part Amendment No 53.
As regards land-use planning, I acknowledge Parliament's strong wish to reinforce Article 12 of the Seveso II directive.
The Commission will therefore accept Amendment No 13, and Amendment No 54 in part, but reject Amendments Nos 51 and 55.
Furthermore, the Commission is of the opinion that the development of schemes of incentives and/or funding for the relocation of establishments is a task to be performed by Member States and cannot therefore accept Amendment No 31 either.
As a result, it was decided to re-establish a European working group on land-use planning involving stakeholders from all interested parties and at all levels in order to develop harmonised guidance on technical advice, taking into account industrial risks in land use planning.
This is what Parliament is asking for in Amendment No 30.
Amendment No 35 suggests introducing a new article on training of staff, which would compel industrial operators to provide competent authorities with a training report every two years.
However, the issue of training is appropriately addressed in Annex III and Annex IV.
Moreover, as the safety report has to demonstrate that the aspect of safety management has been put into effect it must necessarily contain the information on training of staff.
This raises not only the issue of subsidiarity, but also the following question: should the provision of information be a one-way street or do we believe that responsible citizens should also actively exercise their right to know by requesting information?
One of the core novelties of the Seveso II Directive is that it gives more rights to the public, but it also strikes a fine balance between active and passive information, thus imposing equal responsibilities on industrial operators, public authorities and citizens.
Let me confirm the Commission's position on the amendments.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 9, 13, 16, 18, 23, 24, 46 and 48 and in part Amendments Nos 7, 17, 25, 26, 30, 50, 53 and 54.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 to 6, 10 to 12, 14, 15, 19 to 22, 28, 29, 31, 33 to 36, 38, 41, 43, 44, 47, 49, 51, 52 and 55.
I promise that within the timespan of the sixth environmental action programme the Commission will undertake to gather all the experience gained with the application of the present directive and present a new proposal for a more comprehensive review of Seveso II as necessary.
Thank you for the debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I start this debate, I should like to extend my heartfelt thanks to those of my fellow Members of this House who have tried to reach the widest possible agreement on this topic in a constructive manner.
I should like to use my speaking time to do away with two misconceptions that are nourished by an aggressive mail campaign to which we have all been subjected over the past few days.
First of all, this report does not call for harmonisation of legislation at European level.
We remain convinced that legislation and measures must remain within the remit of Member States, and the report therefore takes full account of subsidiarity.
What the report does do is to launch an appeal, at European level, to bring into motion a learning process, to collect information about the situation in the Member States, to examine the constituent parts of policy in the Member States concerning sexual and reproductive health and rights and the measures that yield positive results.
Secondly, if we talk about development and cooperation policy, this Parliament, along with the entire EU, rightly argues that sexual and reproductive rights must form part of such development and cooperation policy.
This means that the report aims to prevent unwanted pregnancies and therefore also abortions.
However, we must develop a 3-track policy.
Far too many young people still believe that it is impossible to conceive the first time they have intercourse, or they receive their sexual education through pornographic films.
In fact, abortion has been legalised in most countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sexual and reproductive health and rights are an area on which we need to tread softly softly at European level.
The European Union does not in fact have any competence when it comes to legislating on abortion or health systems.
The principle of subsidiarity must be brought to bear to its full extent in this sensitive area and must not be ignored.
Reproductive health is also a matter for the Member States.
The PPE-DE is also firmly against legalising abortion.
The report takes no account of what needs to be done in order to guarantee effective prevention.
There is no mention whatsoever of mutual responsibility in a relationship or of the indispensable role of parents and family in sex education, two decisive factors in preventing unwanted pregnancies.
Like all of you, I have received numerous letters and telephone calls from worried organisations and individuals in candidate countries.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights requires us to uphold human dignity and protect life.
The principles of the European Union include subsidiarity and maintaining cultural diversity.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has, without any shadow of a doubt, recognised the primary competence of the Member States in safeguarding sexual and reproductive health and rights.
In the eyes of my group, these issues should be dealt with at Member State level.
The provision of sexual information is essential to avoid unwanted pregnancies and diseases.
It is, in my view, a fundamental right that should not only be guaranteed in Europe and the candidate countries, but throughout the world.
The ELDR Group is therefore opposed to the overwhelming majority of the tabled amendments, because these threaten to undermine the very balanced text.
If that is the message that this Parliament sends out tomorrow, our group will refuse to have any part in this.
On the one hand, that the question of controlling fertility and reproduction was a human right, and on the other, in 1995 in Peking, that it was a woman's right.
We said thirty years ago that our bodies belong to us.
Mrs Van Lancker has taken ample account not only of all the groups, but also of the different sensitivities within the groups.
After all, there is today a huge discrepancy between the different Member States in terms of the rights of women in the area of sexual and reproductive health.
Consequently, Member States therefore have an enormous task of preventing abortions that are not carried out for specifically woman-related reasons, such as poverty, career or stigmatisation.
Mr President, although I pay tribute to the rapporteur for her work, at the risk of being unpopular I am completely unable to support this report.
All that is unacceptable in that it rides roughshod over the principle of subsidiarity and therefore the right of each Member State to decide on its own health policy, and especially because it trivialises recourse to abortion and shows no genuine respect for life and the rights of the unborn child.
Moreover, this is a proposal which does very little of substance to develop a responsible policy promoting solidarity and the family, adoption and the protection of child mothers, which totally disregards all the legislative measures and good practices which exist to help pregnant women and mothers, offering practical help for women expecting a child, dissuading them from resorting to abortion by providing a programme of economic aid and proper social and psychological help.
Therefore, Mr President, my group will vote against this report.
Mr President, in 1994, there were 179 countries, including all the EU countries, which adopted the ICPD Programme on universal access to reproductive health by 2015.
Progress in this area might have been expected since 1994, but the opposite has unfortunately been the case: the Arabic countries have entered into an unholy alliance with President Bush to obstruct the UN's work on achieving the ICPD objectives.
Any woman who has unintentionally become pregnant and refers herself to a clinic for an abortion instead of carrying out the abortion herself is always made aware of options other than abortion, informed about how she might avoid an unwanted pregnancy in the future and alerted to the possibility of HIV infection.
A desire to safeguard basic rights should be reason enough for voting in favour of the report.
I have to say that, since 1995, all the States - and I would stress, all of them - have willingly been signatories to the UN Declaration on reproductive rights.
I would, however, stress that the report seems to be a repeat of documents which have already been adopted by the Member States and that, in my opinion, it does not represent much progress.
It may be that we could have been a little more ambitious, for example as regards the new techniques that science has placed at the disposal of women's health and reproductive rights.
It has given us an opportunity to make two findings.
We engaged in an up-to-the-minute dialogue between the political groups in committee and representatives of European society and we agreed that these issues are vital to today's European citizens, especially women.
Its most controversial point has undoubtedly been abortion, although the report deliberately starts by stating that abortion must not be encouraged as a method of family planning.
It is sad, but this is still the situation in Portugal, and this is why it so important for us Portuguese to see this report approved and to feel the solidarity of Europe on such a sensitive issue.
It is an excellent piece of work, which is very much in line with the final statements of the Cairo and Beijing United Nations conferences and is intended to ensure the exchange of best practices in the field of reproductive health and in the defence of women's rights and dignity.
As recently became clear in Portugal when 17 women were subjected to the shame of court proceedings, with the investigation of their private lives and with the accusation of having had an illegal abortion - which was not proved, except in one case - in which the young woman was unacceptably convicted, this is not the way to combat illegal abortion.
Whilst it is true that abortion, as the report states, must not be encouraged as a method of family planning, it is crucial that a health and social policy be put in place that enables women to resort less to abortion, specifically through the promotion of sexual education and of family planning properly targeting young people, so as to prevent unwanted pregnancies, specifically amongst adolescents.
Mr President, all of the issues raised in the report fall not within Community competence, but within the competence of national political bodies.
I am, therefore, sorry to see some federalists here choosing to see the Community as an appeals court and supporting the scam of putting pressure on the free expression of the citizens' will, whilst the debate is obviously still ongoing.
The report takes the side of the stronger against the weaker.
And the weakest is always and in every case the child, who is at a vulnerable and helpless stage of development.
In my country we choose to act in this way; we take the side of the weakest.
And it is our right to do so, provided that this is allowed by law and that this is what our citizens want.
It is true that they are the reason why this report on sexual and reproductive health and rights was originally written, but in an unpleasant way.
Parliament is imposing on the candidate countries its own time-limited standards regarding abortion, contraception and sexual education concerning free sex.
An outlook on life in which individual sexual and reproductive self-determination are praised as the ideal, while nothing is being said about the downsides.
Then there is the fact that sexual and reproductive rights are not mentioned in any treaty, in any European convention, or in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Finally, it is irresponsible to teach very young children a policy of sex without discernment.
Respect for human dignity and consideration for women in difficulties should have led us to propose measures that were more responsible and showed more respect for life.
Unfortunately that has not happened, and that is why I shall be voting against this report.
Mr President, the report before us does a great disservice to the topics it covers, whether one is pro-choice or pro-life, because it purports to dictate to Member States a certain direction in relation to what are most important subsidiarity matters for the Member States.
Neither this Parliament nor the Commission have any competence in this area.
It is not only in our interest in Ireland that we ratify the Nice Treaty, it is in the interests of all the accession states who want to rejoin the European family.
Those accession states themselves have contacted many of us and the leaders of many groups about the added difficulties this report is causing.
They are secondary at this point in time to the collateral damage this report is doing in accession states and in Ireland.
It is not an abortifacient because you do not have implantation of the fertilised egg until up to 72 hours after fertilisation.
The first of them concerns the principle of subsidiarity that underpins Community law.
This motion for a resolution breaches this principle, which forces us not only to respect Members States' exercising their autonomy in matters that fall within their competence but also to encourage them to do so and to exclude illegitimate interference in the internal jurisdiction of each State.
The European Union must abstain from intervening in a matter that falls within the competence of the Member States.
It is widely known and quite clear that this report addresses issues that do not fall within the scope of the European Union's competences, and interferes particularly in policies of health and justice.
Another of the cardinal sins concerns the serious fact that this proposal deliberately and flagrantly disregards the will of the citizens, expressed freely and democratically in the referenda on the decriminalisation of abortion held in some Members States, such as Portugal, for example.
This will furthermore have the perverse consequence of creating suspicion amongst the citizens of Members States and also of the candidate countries, and this report is thereby doing a disservice to the European Union.
The European Union is an original political model founded on cultural diversity and on respect for the historical and ethical heritage of each of the nations that it comprises.
Deepening the European spirit must involve respect for differences and for strengthening the principle that decisions must be taken at the closest possible level to the citizens of the Union.
Despite improvements over recent years in the sexual and reproductive health of women, the indicators still show high abortion rates, especially among teenagers, low rates of contraceptive use and an increase in sexually transmitted diseases.
The fact that conservative and religious circles have taken action and flooded us with papers over recent days in a bid to overturn the vote in favour of this report makes that clear.
It is worth pointing out that statistics show that the number of abortions is very low wherever there is a high level of free reproductive health and contraception services, in countries in which pregnant women facing difficulties, such as unmarried mothers, are given material support and where liberal legislation on the termination of pregnancy is combined with serious and effective sex education and information, especially for young people.
In conclusion, I think that the European Union and the Council, and the candidate countries, should step up their efforts and should give priority to and formulate an integrated European policy on reproductive health, with the emphasis on prevention, contraception and sex education and information for young people.
The principle of subsidiarity must not under any circumstances be used as an excuse to prevent the European Parliament from taking a stance on such an important issue.
We shall be voting in favour of this report because it proposes a policy of encouraging sex education and contraception, because it clearly states that abortion should be legalised, safe and accessible to all, and because it calls on governments to refrain in any case from prosecuting women who have undergone illegal abortions.
Like other women, I do not regard abortion as a normal method of contraception.
However, a woman's right to have control over her own body ought to be an inalienable right.
It is revolting that in certain countries of the European Union that right is denied in law, while in other countries it is denied in practice.
I also find it extremely shocking that even here, in the European Parliament, speakers dare to oppose the few improvements that this report proposes by propounding ideas which are as barbarous as they are reactionary and by voting against this report.
In fact, I think that taking life is the opposite of reproductive health.
Mr President, this own-initiative report on sexual and reproductive health is surrounded by controversy, mainly because it concerns an area that is still within the competence of the Member States.
It is subject to subsidiarity and, as an amendment by my Group recognises, its aim is for all the Member States of the Union to have the same policy, in other words for all the States to have the same law on a matter that is subject to subsidiarity but which, above all, depends upon the beliefs, traditions and patrimony of each State.
This report contains a number of positive elements, in particular with regard to information and prevention of sexually-transmitted diseases, better education in schools and improved access to family planning centres and clinics, in particular for young people.
The fact is that there has been an increase in unwanted pregnancies among young women, and even young girls, but we cannot allow unrestricted abortion to be put forward as a solution to this problem, because the fact is that the ultimate objective of this own-initiative report is to introduce unrestricted abortion and the morning-after pill into the legislation of the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries as an effective means of combating unwanted pregnancy.
Public health authorities must become involved in this information process and also in schools, and we must not forget the fundamental role to be played by parents and the need for them to be involved.
I am sorry that we have not reached a greater consensus on the key issues, and I hope that in the vote we shall be able to achieve it if some of the Members who have spoken here are able to tone down or moderate their extreme approach.
Otherwise I, like the rest of my Group, will have to vote against the report.
The report addresses the sensitive issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights, women's reproductive health and the dissemination of contraceptive practices, it focuses at length on a policy of health and sexual education policy for young people, and, of course, it is also concerned with unwanted pregnancies and abortion.
This issue is, however, addressed in the context of the recommendations made to the Member States and the candidate countries with the aim of safeguarding women's reproductive health and rights.
The rapporteur makes numerous recommendations regarding prevention.
The governments of the Member States and the candidate countries are called upon to endeavour to implement a health and social policy which will reduce recourse to abortion, particularly through the establishment of a network of counselling and family planning services.
She does not suggest that the European institutions should take over the competences and responsibilities of the Member States, but recommends that they adopt a policy of prevention - sexual education - and reminds us all that sexuality and reproductive health are, first and foremost, women's rights.
We have now reached the stage where we are defining those rights, and here the WHO concept, which regards health as a fundamental right, will support our efforts to define a framework which will establish reproductive health in law.
In order for men and women to obtain that freedom of choice, they must have access to information about the various options possible, and their respective consequences, hence the need for education about sex and the emotions, which plays a very important role.
At the present time, in many countries, public policies aim to give women autonomy by means of a series of measures, including education, which must cover all areas of life if it is to be a tool of democracy.
Thank you, Mrs Hermange.
Mr President, the Van Lancker report talks about prevention, education and health, but certain groups have tried to turn this into a report on abortion.
The Van Lancker report aims to eradicate certain inconsistencies, such as only giving the right to choose to women who are wealthy, and denying this right to all those who are not.
The Van Lancker report provides guidelines with a view to reducing the number of abortions that take place.
The Van Lancker report is balanced and the rapporteur has been flexible and generous with the right-wing groups in negotiating amendments, yet the representatives of the Left do not want to know.
We think that many women in the European Union and from outside the Union are awaiting the result of this report.
This will do little to instil faith in the democratic decision-making process in the future.
The topic is important and is tied in with a number of topical issues, such as the increase in sexually transmitted diseases, the large number of unwanted pregnancies, also among young people, the large number of legal and illegal abortions and any adverse effects on women afterwards, the importance of relationships and family, the importance of education in this area, etc.
Unfortunately, this report - certainly the original version - largely disregarded these issues.
There is hardly anything about the aforementioned points, about possible prevention of unwanted pregnancies or, for example, the responsibility of men in this.
I am pleased that at least these amendments, tabled by our group, have been adopted.
The report should not have been put on the agenda because the topic does not form part of our competence.
It is incorrect where the report is too positive about the results of the far-reaching, liberal abortion laws and easy access to contraceptives.
It believes abortion legislation to be a competence of the Member States, but wants abortion legalised in all countries.
The report states that there is insufficient statistical data, but does draw conclusions and comparisons.
They want their own opinion expressed by the Parliament, even if the topic does not fall within our remit, even if it jeopardises the accession process and even if it is patronising towards the accession countries.
I have sympathy for many of the problems, but it is beyond me why this report should be on our agenda at this time.
It has been suggested in this debate that Members should vote against this report because it might have a negative effect on the Nice referendum in Ireland.
I would also like to suggest that if men could become pregnant, abortion would not be a problem anywhere in the world.
Let me avail of this opportunity to underline that the Commission has no ambition to become engaged in health care delivery systems or medical care.
This is the responsibility of Member States.
So whilst a full and frank debate about key health issues is essential, we must also respect the distinction between Member States' and Community competences when we begin to consider general recommendations in sensitive areas.
Clearly, there are important cultural, ethnic, ethical and religious differences between our citizens on such matters.
In highlighting the importance of sexual and reproductive health and rights, sensitivity needs to be shown to the divergent attitudes on issues such as abortion in our Member States.
Sexual and reproductive health issues are core topics of social and public health debate in Europe today.
But in the context of developing a public health policy, there are a number of issues which require careful consideration and analysis.
In all aspects of sexual and reproductive health, the more informed and the better educated the individual, the greater is the chance that they will avoid pitfalls, by taking responsibility for their health and wellbeing.
Of course, in often very difficult real life situations, individuals must move from absorbing information to developing a holistic understanding of how these issues impact upon their lives.
Naturally, in this debate, there is significant attention addressed to the responsibility and rights of women in dealing with their health and wellbeing.
I believe however, that greater attention needs to be brought to bear on the responsibilities of men in this domain.
I hope that our Member States will place a greater emphasis on the education and information of men in this important area.
The 1997 Commission Report on the State of Women's Health in the European Community also provided some useful analysis.
It drew attention to the fact that sexual and reproductive health issues are vital questions for women of reproductive age.
These will include a range of indicators addressing various aspects of reproductive and sexual health.
I must stress, however, that the quality of such work will depend on the quality and compatibility of the data provided by the Member States.
Within the new Public Health Programme, the third strand will address health determinants through disease prevention and health promotion.
This applies also to sexual and reproductive health.
However, the local health promotion and disease prevention strategy is the responsibility of the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I am thinking here, for example, - what a pity several lady Members have just left - of the role of women in research.
We have managed to find a good compromise between the solidarity needed and the responsibility of the individual participants.
In other words, networks of excellence, joint European research area, yes, but not in the form of some sort of collaboration which cannot be properly quantified.
We cannot release our Executive from its responsibility.
The first report is a full codecision report; the report on Euratom is a consultation report.
But let us stay with the first report and codecision.
I should also like to thank all my fellow Members in the other groups.
We shall be keeping a critical but well-meaning eye on this work during the course of next year.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering the Commission proposal seeking to establish the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities and for the dissemination of research results for the implementation of the European Community framework programme 2002-2006.
Heading 9 of the compromise amendment refers to the need for the activities of the sixth framework programme to promote the participation of the most remote regions of the Community.
When the complete equality of the participants and the general openness of the projects to new participants is protected, according greater weight to the criterion for Community added value would be crucial to guaranteeing access to the sixth framework programme for projects originating in those regions.
Perhaps this is also a sign of the new start which we are planning with the sixth research framework programme.
As far as these rules of participation are concerned, I would like to say that we have put a great deal of responsibility on the Commission and demanded a great deal from it.
That is one of our old demands, but with several tens of thousands of projects, it places an enormous responsibility on the Commission.
In other words, there are a great many participants and "managing" them, by which I mean implementing the research framework programme properly, will be no easy task.
which are as big as possible and presumably this will also be the future of the European research programme.
However, this means that other, mainly smaller projects will increasingly need to be taken over by the Member States and the regions, leading to a stricter division of labour between the European Union and the Member States.
The Spanish Presidency has done sterling work in this area.
The result is that we can now approve the rules for participation in framework programmes in one reading, allowing the sixth framework programme to be launched on time.
This is good news for all researchers in Europe, but also for the research climate and innovation in the European Union.
In 1994, this difference was still EUR 51 million annually, and this has risen to no less than EUR 124 million in the year 2000.
However, this requires a much better investment climate to make it attractive for companies to invest in Europe.
I should like to emphasise that, for the first time in the framework programme, the acceding countries will enjoy rights that are equivalent to those of the Member States, and the European scientific cooperation organisations and those of the acceding countries will be able to participate on the same footing as the bodies established in the Member States.
I am also pleased to see that the organisations in third countries will be able to participate fully in the projects in the framework programme.
This is particularly important for our group, which wants to intensify research with developing countries and with the countries of the Mediterranean and of Latin America.
I would point out the importance to Parliament of Amendment No 29 and its counterpart in the Euratom programme, Amendment No 38, which add criteria which can and should be taken into account, including activities to increase the role of women in research and to look at synergies with education.
Ease of access means that dissemination should be fairly easy, but Parliament considers dissemination to be an important stage in this process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, together with the decision on the framework programme itself and the specific programmes, the rules for participation and dissemination make up the third element of the system for implementing the research framework programme.
In fact, the rules for participation establish the legal and financial framework which governs the implementing and financing of the research activities of the sixth framework programme.
You are right, Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl, to emphasise that this agreement has been made possible thanks to the hard work during fruitful discussions in which everyone has been involved.
The new model is based on the principle of greater autonomy for the consortiums, and this will be reinforced by the increased flexibility of the rules and contracts, and a substantial reduction in the administrative constraints that they face..
You are also right, Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl, to make the point that thinking that the Commission was going to withdraw from all its prerogatives, and therefore its responsibilities, particularly as regards the assessment and selection of proposals to be financed, the selection of participants receiving Community funding, as well as the setting up of an effective programme for monitoring the funded projects and the decisions on what payments should be made, was only an impression.
Naturally, compared with the rules that prevail at present, the rules have also been adjusted to take into account new information available under the sixth framework programme, starting with the introduction of new instruments of financial support.
One of the principal changes, some of which saw the light of day at Parliament's initiative, is, in particular, the fact that participation in a research project - except for some individual cases - is open to any legal entity and not only to legal entities which have a specific research activity.
Another change is that organisations in the acceding countries have been placed on an equal footing with those in the Member States of the Union as regards the conditions for their participation, which is a strong political signal at a time when we are talking about enlargement.
Opening up participation and financing to include legal entities based in third countries involved in international cooperation activities also broadens the scope of the European research area.
We should also mention the introduction of the opportunity of full participation for international European interest organisations, the reduction in the number of model contracts, and a new procedure for the entry into force of contracts, the simplification of the funding systems, the grant to the budget and the grant for integration for integrated projects and networks of excellence respectively, the use of audit certificates by participants in order to claim expenses, thereby giving greater financial security in conditions which involve fewer procedures, and, finally, the simplification of the rules regarding intellectual property, with the single defining principle of an overall framework and of general principles to be observed, while the detailed provisions may vary depending on the type of action.
On all these points, and on many others, the in-depth and sustained discussions which took place between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission enabled us to reach an agreement.
The Commission is therefore able to accept formally the single compromise amendment which brings this agreement into being, and I believe that the Council has expressed the same sentiment.
The Commission cannot accept this, but we shall try to find a compromise.
For the scientific community and for businesses, this is an essential element in the implementation of this framework programme which is an instrument of the European research area.
This will enable us to prepare, in optimum conditions, the implementation of the framework programme between now and the end of the year.
On my own personal behalf, I should also like to thank our rapporteur, who really has made a great effort, despite having had a slight problem with her health, in order to produce this double report.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
