That means that we will, on the one hand, continue to pursue the debate on the issue of principle - not only on bilateral contact but also in multilateral fora, the United Nations in particular - whilst also, on the other hand, continuing to be pro-active in approaching those countries that are at a turning point - that is to say, those in which either positive or negative trends are perceptible as regards the death penalty - and to bring influence to bear on them by means, that is, of very definite demarches in many urgent individual cases.
Instead, on 19 December, at the European Union's initiative, and for the first time ever, a unilateral declaration against the death penalty was put to the General Assembly, and it is important to note that it was supported by 85 states from all parts of the globe.
Agreement was therefore reached at the General Affairs Council of 22 January that we would first devise a well thought-out approach that would progressively enable us to present our concerns more effectively to the United Nations.
Last December, the EU presented a Declaration on the Death Penalty at the UN General Assembly, which received the support of a record 85 states.
The EU is also the leading source of funding for abolitionist projects run by civil society, and over the past ten years, we have spent over EUR 15 million supporting such projects around the world.
The European Parliament and civil society actors have traditionally played a crucial role in both supporting the abolitionist efforts of the European Union and in stimulating the debate on the means to enhance our policy.
This has certainly been illustrated most recently by the Italian proposal for a universal moratorium on the death penalty at the UN General Assembly.
We must therefore celebrate the fact that, in 2005 and 2006, a whole series of countries, such as Liberia, Mexico, the Philippines and Moldova, have decided formally to abolish the death penalty.
I believe that we must continue to work tirelessly to ensure that the seventy countries that still apply the death penalty join the 128 countries that no longer apply it.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on which we will vote tomorrow and this evening's debate situate the European Parliament in that international movement that is appealing to the United Nations General Assembly to adopt a resolution for a universal moratorium, which is a first step towards the general abolition of the death penalty from the statute books of every country.
To conclude my speech, Madam President, I should like to point out that, 60 years ago, there was a Rome-Berlin axis.
It is now important to reaffirm this principle, which is enshrined in Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 'No one shall be condemned to the death penalty, or executed.
Too many countries still have the death penalty, and they include not only large countries such as China, but also the most important military and democratic power - the United States - which has still not been able to leave its Wild West culture behind.
Secondly, some opponents of capital punishment should display a certain degree of consistency.
Today's initiative is an ambitious attempt to raise the profile of the debate on the death penalty to a UN level and to have an impact on the 66 countries that have already been referred to that still use the death penalty.
Looking at what we can do here in the EU from a policy perspective, I would urge the Council to review and update the guidelines on the death penalty, which date back to 1998, so that new elements and strategies that have developed since then can be taken into consideration.
So the EU has shown that it can be a key influence on national policy towards the death penalty, and we should not be afraid to use that influence. (ES) Madam President, yesterday, Robert Wilson, of 24 years of age, was sentenced to death by a jury in New York.
The number of executions in the states of the US has dropped dramatically since 1999: there were 277 in that year, and 128 in 2005.
Twelve states have now abolished the death penalty, not including Texas, which clocks up an unimpressive one-third of the 1100 executions in the US in the last 30 years.
As in some other areas of human rights policy, like extraordinary rendition and war-on-terror abuses, the EU is not always as effective in putting its principles into practice as Parliament would wish. (EL) Madam President, as we speak, all the Member States of the Union have ratified the sixth protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the abolition of the death penalty.
They, not we, have the right to choose what is right for them. (IT) Madam President, I am delighted to take the floor because, among other things, I come from Tuscany where, for the first time in history, on 30 November 1786, capital punishment was abolished.
No one can take away a person's life and dignity, not even individual States.
The famous writer Albert Camus spoke out against it in his time, and Robert Badinter, a former French Justice Minister, led a legal battle at European level for many years.
The largest democracy in the world, the United States, is placed in the dock.
Only one of the 1 500 death sentences carried out in Poland during the Stalinist period involved a common criminal.
The United Nations General Assembly will, I hope, support the proposed moratorium on the implementation of the death penalty, and its abolition should be the ultimate goal.
World public opinion needs to be channelled in the European direction. (PL) Madam President, Article 1 of Additional Protocol No VI to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms reads: 'The death penalty shall be abolished.
We must therefore support a UN moratorium on the death penalty.
However, we must be aware that if we fail to do so, we shall have to go on asking ourselves whether, in the 21st century, man can continue to kill his fellow man in the name of the law. (PL) Madam President, the European Union has consistently advocated a ban on the application of the death penalty since 1998.
In October 2003, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the European institutions and Member States of the Union to put pressure on the UN General Assembly to declare a moratorium on the implementation of the death penalty.
The European institutions and Member States of the Union should do all in their power to secure, as soon as possible, a favourable outcome in a vote at the current UN General Assembly. (EL) Madam President, the fact that broad agreement between the political party has prevailed in today's debate confirms that the European Parliament can act as the guarantor of European democratic civilisation and for the protection of human rights, human dignity and the right to life.
I would say, however, that the Member States should incorporate a provision abolishing the death penalty in their internal constitutional order.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, what has become apparent from this debate is how great a consensus exists as regards what is one of the most fundamental objectives of the European Union's policy on human rights.
The situation in the United Nations' third committee is similar.
As I said in my statement earlier, there are now various fronts on which we have to take the initiative.
We are also quite active not only at UN level, but also at bilateral level; we try to do that be it in China or Peru.
The debate is closed.
