&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 15&#160;December 2005. &#160;&#160; Colleagues, the new year is usually a time of optimism for the future, but this year we were all saddened by the tragic and untimely death on New Year’s Eve of Phillip Whitehead, the wise and able Chairman of our Committee on the Internal and Consumer Protection.
I would also highlight the wisdom, political skill and good humour he brought to bear in piloting the controversial and complex services directive through his committee.
This could be achieved, in my view, by introducing admissions exams or probationary semesters.
I would like to state here that I fully respect the efforts undertaken by the United States in the fight against global terrorism, as well as the joint actions of the US and EU in tracking down the masterminds and perpetrators of terrorist attacks against civilians.
On the other hand, there is nothing in our democratic societies that precludes us from expressing reservations about attacks that cause the deaths of civilians in any country, especially if the victims are women and children. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Russian-Ukrainian energy crisis has exposed the true face of Russia as an economic partner – a hidden threat to use the energy sector for political purposes.
By repeatedly emphasising the significance of Russia as a strategic partner and its exceptional position among other countries, the European Union is offering Russia concessions.
Therefore, I invite everyone not only to discuss the development of a common energy policy, but also to take actions to develop such policy immediately. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, four years ago, the United States was transferring its first prisoners of the war against terrorism, hooded and chained, to the detention centre at Guantanamo Bay on its naval base in Cuba.
There is no single reading and exercise book for all schools throughout the EU; with the support of the Austrian Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, the Austrian journalists Wolfgang Böhm and Otmar Lahodynsky have written one that could, with only a few amendments, be used in all the EU Member States.
I ask you, Mr President, to see to it that this book is published and made available in all the EU-Infopoints and EU information offices.
I ask you, Mr President, to do your part in getting these two publications included in Plan D and hence in making it possible for a single European reading book and an information campaign to be kicked off. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a short while ago we received a delegation representing the port workers who held a massive demonstration today in our town.
Trade union representatives have condemned the violent acts carried out by a few uncontrolled elements, right here in Strasbourg and towards our Parliament, but they have drawn our attention to the dangers posed by the port services Directive with regard to the status of port workers, and to the quality and security of port services.
This directive is both harmful and pointless because, as the port workers have pointed out, European port services are the most competitive in the world, and there is no need to intensify competition in our ports. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we started this year with an urgent meeting of the representatives of the EU States concerning the supply of gas from Russia.
The Russian-Ukrainian energy crisis served as a wake-up call for the European Union.
The dependence of the European Union energy sector on Russia, where from 50 to 90 percent of all energy resources of the States of the European Union originate, has long been a reason for concern to the citizens of the European Union, as well as residents of Central and Eastern Europe.
Therefore, considering the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the growing demand placed on energy resources, I invite you, Mr President, to endeavour to develop a single European Union energy policy, while making the drafting of the project a priority on the agenda of both the Commission and the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, last week the Austrian Presidency announced that the period of reflection on the European Constitution was closed and that it intended to present a new proposal at the June summit.
I wish to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that neither proposal makes any provision whatsoever for the grass-roots verdict which sparked the review of the road being taken by the European Union.
As a final example of that radio station’s crazed attitude, one of its so-called ‘journalists’ passed himself off as President Zapatero in order to secure a fraudulent interview with the President-elect of Bolivia, Evo Morales.
The report sets out proposals regarding the effectiveness of measures to prevent drug addiction and tough regulations, and I would call on all legislators to ensure that these proposals are incorporated into both Community and national law. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the recent dispute between Russia and Ukraine over natural gas supplies and the relentless rise in oil prices are indications of how vulnerable Europe is when it comes to supplies of these vital commodities.
We already import 60% of our oil, for example, and this figure will rise in the future.
I should therefore like to call once again on the European Commission and the European Council to speed up preparations for a proposal on a common energy policy, which should also tie in with the common foreign and security policy.
The European Parliament must condemn this event that ETA-Batasuna wants to hold and speak out in favour of strict compliance with the Law on Parties. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I hope you will send a message of congratulations to the Council on its decision to meet henceforth in public when discussing codecision legislation.
This meets a long-standing demand of the European Parliament, and the British Presidency is to be congratulated on achieving this breakthrough.
I hope the Austrian Presidency will do as well.
Let us make one thing clear: our role, our institutional role, is as important as that of the national parliaments.
We therefore want the right to democracy.
We therefore fail to understand why a knowledge of the language of the country of origin of European citizens living in other countries in the European Union is not maintained with lessons in the mother tongue right from nursery and school age, so that this can be maintained and developed, both by the specific host country and by the country of origin and the European Union as a whole.
Several dozen legal residents of the EU are still incarcerated there, including some of my constituents: Bisha&#160;al-Rawi, Jamil al-Banna and Omar Deghayes.
The EU needs to exert united and cohesive pressure on the United States, which it has never done before.
I am aware, thanks to COPE, that on 29 November of last year, the President of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja sent you a letter, Mr President, asking you to cooperate and actively to defend Spanish, in the knowledge that the Commission had cut the number of translators and interpreters in that language by 33%.
That letter was sent to President Zapatero, as well as Commissioner Almunia, but none of you have done anything to defend Spanish on this occasion.
The Biofuels Directive should have been implemented by the end of 2004, but the following Member States have yet to notify the Commission of their legislation implementing that directive: Estonia, Greece, Italy, Cyprus, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia.
The Lisbon Strategy is in dire straits because of the failure to implement legislation by Member States.
Mr President, I should like to ask you to write to the Commission, on behalf of Parliament, to ask what it is doing to speed up the implementation of the Biofuels Directive and what action it is taking against Member States which fail to implement and take seriously the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs Morgan, I shall communicate that to the Commission, which, incidentally, will present its new proposals for the Lisbon Strategy at the next Conference of Presidents.
I think there is absolutely no reason to panic, but if there was a pandemic with travel restrictions, then this would also have implications for us, of course, and I wonder to what extent any consideration has been given to this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President Barroso’s final proposal for the 2007-2013 financial perspective contains the following, seemingly contradictory, proposals.
The various political Groups rejected it, and their criticism is justified in many respects.
A great number of agreements have been reached on the rules of the utilization of funds, which are considered positive by the ten new Member States.
These are all very important issues for the new Member States, and it would be very important that the interests of new Member States are not damaged in the course of the Parliamentary Debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to inform my colleagues of an unhappy event that happened to me over the festive season.
Subsequently, I spent three days in jail in Turkish-occupied northern Cyprus in atrocious conditions, and no permission was granted to the United Nations, my relatives or the European Parliament’s representative to visit me.
I was presented handcuffed on two occasions before a Turkish military court and on one occasion before an illegal civilian court in the Turkish-occupied sector of Nicosia.
If found guilty, I face a three-year jail sentence. &#160;&#160; This very morning, in fact, I signed a letter addressed to you in response to what you had told me about this matter. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to alert the House to violations of human rights by German officials and courts.
Such practices violate one of the European Union’s basic principles, namely the promotion of the linguistic and cultural diversity of its citizens. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I wish to return to the subject of today’s demonstration by port workers against the proposal for a directive on access to port services.
The demonstrators included dockers from both the old and the new Member States.
I am not talking about illegal or economic immigrants, but legal migrant workers from Member States of the EU, new and old, who in my own region are predominantly Portuguese and Polish.
We have a Catch-22 situation here: to get a number you need to make an appointment, but the phones go unanswered; so, no appointment, no national insurance number, no signing up for the workers’ registration scheme, no legal basis for work, no protection and no benefits. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on Tuesday 12 January, a major rally was organised in the town of Rethymnon, in Crete, against racism and xenophobia, following the murder of a young Albanian economic immigrant.
The recent gas crisis involving Ukraine and Russia demonstrated the need for a common energy policy.
There are a great many risks associated with a situation in which individual Member States take measures on their own initiative that serve the sole purpose of enhancing their own energy security, by which I mean gas, oil and electricity supplies.
I am not talking about excessive and overly bureaucratic standardisation, but about a realisation of the fact that the EU Member States form a community that shares common goals and threats.
This is a task that faces the European Parliament too, and so I welcome the fact that the President of Parliament has decided that Council and Commission statements on this issue will be included on the agenda. &#160;&#160; Mr Czarnecki, we shall examine your proposal.
The delegation of dockers, of the workers who were demonstrating, entirely agreed with me on the need to try to prevent these demonstrations of a violent nature, and I am sure that they are doing everything they can to control their troops.
Combating sexual orientation discrimination is a crucial element in the fight against homophobia.
Directive 2000/78/EC, which paves the way for a general framework promoting equal treatment in employment and occupation and covering all the forms of discrimination included in Article 13, is a practical example of this action, and the Commission is ensuring, and will continue to ensure, that this directive is implemented in the Member States.
The second initiative lies within the framework of the recent proposal aimed at making 2007 the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
For example, the Commission can open a possible infringement procedure against a Member State, but it can only do so if a violation of fundamental rights has been observed with regard to the application of Community law.
I wish to raise three issues on behalf of myself and my group.
We all agree that there is a lot to do in all Member States and within the institutions.
The second issue concerns the two problems we are facing in fighting homophobia.
The first is the inequality in the legislation of the Member States.
We have all heard of the problems linked to free movement: one couple being accepted, for instance, in the Netherlands but not being accepted and getting the same rights – social or otherwise – for instance, in Italy.
No exception can be made to these fundamental principles; they are simply vital, and the authorities must defend them at all costs when they are attacked.
By voting in favour of this resolution, we are saying loud and clear that we wish to put a stop to the difference in treatment suffered by homosexuals on EU soil and to see them guaranteed the same rights.
It is our duty, under Article 13 of the Treaty, to safeguard each person’s fundamental rights.
This is our common vision of democracy and of our values.
I can only repeat today the words of the German pastor, Martin Niemöller, who resisted the Nazis: ‘When they came to arrest my Communist neighbour, I did not speak up, because I was not a Communist.
When they came to arrest my gypsy neighbour, I did not speak up, because I was not a gypsy.
I expect the Commission to be right behind the fundamental rights of all European citizens, irrespective of where they live, for that is what we in this Parliament do too.
The fundamental rights are not a matter of subsidiarity.
They are indefeasible and universal for all citizens of the European Union.
Furthermore, it is scandalous that some Member States should still not have fully recognised the fact that homosexuals were the target of the Nazi regime.
I hope that the Austrian Presidency will be able to put this to the Member States in the Council and can subsequently recognise homosexuals as being the victims of the Nazis.
Anti-discrimination and equal opportunities were to be a top priority for this Commission, with a group of Commissioners to monitor all Commission action and major initiatives in this area.
Well, my question to the Commission is what exactly this working party has achieved over the past year, for the disappointing list drafted by Commissioner Frattini does not really do justice to this enormous pledge and there is plenty of work to be done.
I therefore hope that individual Members will now vote in favour of the amendments so that we can address the issue as a whole. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I too am opposed to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, but we should exercise caution in granting ever more rights to homosexuals.
I am all in favour of such a move, but I am not sure whether it is a good idea to legalise homosexual unions.
Such practices are distasteful, outrageous and scandalous, and there have not been any psychological studies showing that they can be regarded as normal. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, there can be no question that we are faced in Europe with a situation in which homosexuals sometimes suffer violence or contempt at the hands of the police services.
That much can be learned from reports on such matters.
I should like to draw the House’s attention to two facts.
Firstly, violence against homosexuals represents only a fraction of the violence which is endemic in our societies, and which is a problem faced by every EU Member State.
We must not forget that while some countries in Europe are more tolerant, others have more conservative social norms.
Yet homosexuals are attacked and beaten up in even the most tolerant countries, such as the Netherlands and France.
I need only mention the case of the homosexual Sebastian Nouchet, who was doused in petrol and set alight in France.
If we are going to hold a debate on such matters at all, we should therefore focus our attention on ways of preventing an escalation of homophobic hatred.
We will not succeed in doing so, however, unless we manage to draw a line between protection of the right to sexual privacy, and violation of the right to displays of this sexuality.
As a matter of fact, a whole system of judicial and constitutional bodies, including an ombudsman, has been set up in Poland to protect this freedom and to ensure compliance with European legislation.
Commissioner, we know you are concerned and we know the Commission is concerned, but the Commission should be judged on what it does.
Infringement proceedings must be brought against any Member State that fails to transpose or implement the appropriate directives already in force in a number of Member States.
A proposal for a horizontal directive directly related to the race and ethnicity directive promised by President&#160;Borroso must be brought before this House.
Even in the United Kingdom, where enormous advances have been made, a young man was kicked to death just before Christmas for no other reason than he was homosexual.
If this House does nothing then it is party to every single blow that was rained upon that individual and other men like him and on gay women across the European Union.
That I should even have to make such a statement here in Parliament makes this a day of great sadness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have to acknowledge that, as Mr Cashman has said, even in my own constituency of London we continue to see prejudice and homophobic crime.
And we need to equalise the treatment of race, gender and sexual orientation in generalising the ban on discrimination not only in the workplace, but also in the receipt of services and in the supply of goods.
According to the Treaties, the European institutions are responsible for ensuring respect for the rights and freedoms of its Member States.
This means combating ignorance and the impunity of homophobic statements and actions, which are not just taking place, but which are increasing in some European countries.
Commissioner Frattini talked about diversity a moment ago, but it is important that we remain open to diversity of opinion, for the sanctimoniousness of 19th century sexual morals is gradually giving way to the sanctimoniousness of political correctness. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has prided itself on having spearheaded the fight against discrimination where equality between men and women, the status of ethnic minorities, the situation of disabled people and, more recently, respect for people’s sexual orientation are concerned.
Article 13 of the Treaty, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and numerous directives make it not only the right, but also the duty, of our Assembly to continue to fight for the equal rights of homosexuals, bisexuals and transsexuals.
We are therefore delighted to welcome the Commission statement on homophobia in the European Union.
That is why there is a need for a build-up of political will, and this debate helps to bring that about.
Five groups have come together and agreed on a text that denounces discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, and which is intended to protect homosexuals, lesbians, transgendered people and bisexuals.
The events in Poland are no more accidental than the latest utterances of one Italian minister are slips of the tongue; rather, they are expressions of an attitude of mind.
Combating homophobia is an educational task, and it is intended that 2007 should be the Year against Discrimination.
The fact is that sexuality and sexual orientation are fundamental rights too, and they too are in the Treaty.
Where the violation of those rights is on an official footing, in Poland, for example, where these people are on the receiving end of enormously discriminatory utterances on the part of leading politicians, and persecuted and injured when they take part in these demonstrations, which is an offence against these young people’s human dignity, the Commission stands by and declines to intervene, on the grounds that European law has not been broken.
Examples include the banning of Equality Marches in Warsaw and Poznań, and the fact that the measures provided for in Polish law have not been taken against groups inciting others to intolerance and to violence against people who promote equal rights for everyone, regardless of their sexual orientation.
It is worth emphasising that the same public prosecutor’s office refused to institute proceedings following the insulting references to homosexuals contained in an article in the publication , in which it was stated that ‘homosexuality is a disease and a threat to the family. &#160;&#160; Mr President, homophobia is not only a big problem in some Member States, but also in the rest of Europe too.
Unfortunately, transsexuals still face exclusion, violence and lack of understanding in all EU Member States on a regular basis.
The time has come to translate this fine theory into practice and use the means which the EU has at its disposal, such as suspending a Member State’s right to vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just wish to add a few brief words at this point in the debate, the length and depth of which has shown that, regrettably, homophobia is still a serious and current problem throughout Europe.
Your words, therefore, Commissioner Frattini, have not been very convincing, given their coldness and their lack of a full and proactive commitment to combating this scourge.
We need much more vigorous action on the part of the Commission and on the part of the Member States, the latter led by the Commission.
I agree with the words of many fellow Members, in particular the very moving words of Michael Cashman. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as Martin Luther King said when launching the campaign for African-Americans’ rights, either we achieve freedom together or not at all.
Fighting homophobia does not mean showing understanding towards a specific group in the population: first and foremost, it means upholding human rights.
However, I feel obliged to repeat certain information in greater detail, because some speakers have clearly shown – and I say this with the same frankness that you have shown towards me – that they are not familiar with what the Commission is doing.
In that communication to the European Parliament, however, we were duty-bound to point out what everyone knows, which is that when the Commission puts forward a proposal based on Article 13, that proposal must, by law – according to the Treaties and not according to our interpretation – be adopted unanimously by the Council.
In any case, the 2005 communication very clearly states our intention to harmonise the field of legal protection against all kinds of discrimination, including that based on sexual orientation, which is what some of you claim we have not yet done, ladies and gentlemen.
It is precisely to strengthen Europe’s powers, however, that this Commission and I myself have once again proposed that a European agency for the protection of fundamental rights should be set up.
The agency would be endowed with the powers that you propose, since it is the European Parliament’s duty to give its opinion on the subject and perhaps increase its powers of intervention.
Mrs&#160;Bachelot-Narquin, you mention a right to diversity, and I once again reply that we are already working on it.
All the major European gay rights groups are involved in this programme.
I believe you are keeping abreast of all these activities, and it is our intention to continue to work hard in this field.
We intend to carry on with our work in this area and to do so in a spirit of mutual openness.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that the EU is a union of values that must operate on the principle that everyone has equal value and equal rights.
The EU Member States have ratified a number of legally binding international agreements based on this principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
The right not to be exposed to irrelevant special treatment on the grounds of sexual orientation is, then, a fundamental human right.
In the debate, this right is sometimes regarded as a negotiable benefit.
It is important for us always to have the UN’s declarations on human rights in mind when we debate legislative proposals in this Chamber.
The fact that sexual orientation determines to what extent someone is in danger of being exposed to violence is, of course, unacceptable.
It is important for us, as politicians, to make it clear that all human beings have equal rights and obligations.
If we tamper with that principle, we bring fundamental human rights and the UN’s declarations into question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have been a Member of this Parliament for a year and a half now and I find the experience … I do not have the Rules of Procedure here, Mr President.
I asked a very precise question and I did not get an answer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the basis of Rule&#160;143(1), I wish to state that Mr Frattini is making out that we are all stupid because it was he who prepared the communication on the broader framework directive.
European citizenship is an emerging concept, a right deriving from national citizenship.
Just think, for instance, that someone may be considered a European citizen – rightly too, perhaps – if he or she was born to Italian parents, lives in Argentina or Venezuela and has never set foot on EU soil, whereas someone else may not be considered a European citizen – unfairly, in my view – even though he or she has lived and worked in a Member State for 10 or 20 years but was unfortunately born to Tunisian or Egyptian parents.
Affirming that a person may become a citizen of the European Union after five years’ legal residence in Europe seems to us a practical way to reopen the debate on the future of Europe, which, since the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty, has plunged into a crisis that may prove fatal and irreversible.
Certain rights associated with EU citizenship are already conferred on the basis of residence: I am referring to the right to petition the European Parliament and the right to submit a complaint to the Ombudsman.
Thus the right of free movement and residence and also the right to vote in European and local elections might be extended, in the same way as these rights are granted to EU citizens residing in a country other than their own.
I also call on my fellow Members who belong to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to support this position and to give up excessively extreme positions.
The document I am putting forward not only received the support of my group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe in committee, but it also had the support of the Commission, whose members told the Committee on Civil Liberties that they were in favour of implementing citizenship by residence.
Commissioner Frattini has also said he is willing to give support of this kind.
Finally, I should like to reassure all those who, in their comments on this report, have raised the spectre of introducing a European tax in order to extend citizenship rights.
After the Treaty of Maastricht, which introduced the idea of European citizenship, and after the added value given by the draft Constitutional Treaty, I believe the time has come to place human beings at the focus of rights and duties and thus, if I may say so, at the heart of the European integration process.
These points therefore need to be clarified and, as proposed in the report, explicitly elucidated.
The chapter on the citizens’ right to information is very important, and is an area on which the Commission is already working.
The topic that I myself will be dealing with is the transposition of the new directive on European citizens’ right of residence, to ensure that the aspect of transparency of information is emphasised when the directive is incorporated by the Member States into their national bodies of law.
That is all part of the integration programme on which we shall be working in 2006 and which I hope to finalise with the agreement of the Council and Parliament.
This comes in a directive that has to be transposed by 23&#160;January this year – the deadline is thus in a few days’ time – and I am putting political pressure on all the Member States to transpose the directive in question and to issue residence permits to non-EU citizens who have been residing legally in Europe for more than five years.
I am convinced that it is possible – perhaps without changing the structure of the Treaties, which do not provide for a link between European citizenship and residence – to start with a concept of civic citizenship: in other words, citizenship linked to the region and the place where the person works and lives.
On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I congratulate you all the more because a number of the proposals we adopted have ended up in the final report: we are delighted by this outcome.
Commissioner, you spoke about rights and duties, and I believe that, in terms of citizenship, we are concerned here with a balance to which a number of us share the same approach.
Beyond this issue, I believe that the rapporteur’s proposals with regard to the acquisition of citizenship of one or another Member State and to the discrimination against third-country nationals residing in a given Member State should be taken up by this plenary assembly, with all the political groups joining together.
Lastly, I believe that, with regard to our Parliament, the idea of a transnational election continues to give impetus to our work.
I am not sure whether we have brought this idea any closer to fruition in this report, but it seems important to me to mention it as a factor that can improve, and contribute to, European citizenship. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, with the fourth report on citizenship, the European Commission is honouring its commitment under Article 22 of the Treaty of the European Communities to submit a three-yearly report on the application by the European institutions of the provisions of the second part of the Treaty entitled 'European Citizenship'.
It is worth noting that all past reports on citizenship related to the Europe of the 15.
The Catania report, however, does not present for us all developments in the individual sectors which, together with the right to equal treatment, make up the particular character of citizenship, sectors such as freedom of movement, citizens' participation in elections to the European Parliament and in local elections, public information and, most of all, information for the young people who will make up the heart of the Union in the future.
However, the report emphasises, in paragraph 32, the importance of the right to good administration and the right of access to documents laid down in Title V of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Similarly, use of the right of recourse to the European Ombudsman requires suitable information of citizens and use of the means which the European Commission has as its disposal for an effective understanding of European citizenship. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the duty of every rapporteur is to comment on the specific report on the basis of current legal terms and rules.
Article 17 of the Treaty is clear and determines who can acquire citizenship of the European Union.
I am delighted because Mr Catania rejected his own offspring this evening.
The European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats rejects these positions.
It is underlining its desire for greater coordination of the general criteria and procedures for the acquisition of nationality in the Member States.
Secondly, Parliament is calling on the Member States to discuss the possibility of drawing up a European voter’s card common to all the EU countries.
Fourthly, it is calling on the Member States to extend the right to vote in local and European elections to third-country nationals and to stateless persons permanently residing in the European Union for more than five years, as well as the right of free movement and the right to a residence permit in any of the EU Member States.
I believe that it is optimistic and that, in some cases, it goes rather further than the Treaties allow or than some of us would support: for example, the European Parliament and the national Parliaments must have the same degree of legitimacy and I therefore do not believe that, at this point, we can ask that certain people be allowed to vote in the European Parliament elections when they cannot vote in elections to national Parliaments.
The Commission must publicise the rights that the European citizens currently enjoy much more effectively, for example in the consular field and in many other areas in which they are not even aware of the rights available to them.
I believe that by adopting the Catania report Parliament will signal to the authorities of Latvia and Estonia that respect for equal rights is crucial for the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, citizenship is conferred by states, and it is therefore logical that those who want to see the EU turned into a state should also fight to establish citizenship of the Union.
My group wishes to see practical European cooperation without wanting to construct a common state.
The place for common fundamental rights is in our own constitutions and in the European Convention on Human Rights.
The June Movement is in favour of a common market and cooperation but opposed to common citizenship.
The proposal reaches its most ludicrous and unacceptable point when it embraces the progressive financing of the EU by direct taxation.
It does so by doing no more than demanding that EU citizenship be extended to include those who are resident in the EU but not citizens of it, so that, for example, foreigners and stateless persons would be given the right to vote and the right to stand for election.
To take one example, one could envisage a situation where, if Mr Catania had his way, an American who had lived in the EU for five years would be able to vote in the elections for the European Parliament, and indeed himself be elected to it, while at the same time being able to take part in elections in the United States.
Mr Catania, unfortunately – and I say ‘unfortunately’ in view of the fact that these are issues with which every citizen of the EU has to deal in everyday life – does nothing to answer these questions, not to mention others besides.
Improving the realities of day-to-day life and the cultural exchange between the European peoples makes Europe more readily acceptable.
The debate on European citizenship, as Commissioner Frattini quite rightly says, is directly linked to the harmonious integration of immigrants and the major question of political citizenship.
This report proves that beyond doubt. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the creation of European citizenship because we want a Europe of the citizens and not simply a Europe of goods, services and capital.
I wish to congratulate Mr Frattini on the work he has done in this regard.
To advocate the opposite is to destroy the concept of European citizenship and to undermine the European project. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Catania on his excellent report, which I support fully.
We should remember, though, that millions of our fellow citizens live outside of the Union’s territory − almost one million Spaniards alone − and we should also remember that, regardless of our places of birth or residence, we are all equally European.
We must ensure that the rights that come with this citizenship are guaranteed for Europeans living in Switzerland, Argentina or any other part of the world, just as they are guaranteed for Europeans resident in France, Germany or any other State of the Union.
Human beings appear to be less valuable than animals, and every year sees an enormous increase in the number of women and children who are trafficked; in the absence of solid statistics and figures, estimates range between 800&#160;000 and 3-4 million women and children every year.
It needs to be holistic, because, in combating the trafficking in human beings, light needs to be shed on the triangular relationship between the victim, the client and the dealer.
We know, after all, that international development policy does not reduce poverty, but can even contribute to the further marginalisation of groups at risk.
The only way we will get the same results from inquiries is to tackle them in the same way.
The European Union needs – by which I mean that the Member States need – to take action, action in the form of information campaigns aimed in particular at the victims, but also in the existing structures, such as the establishments where police officers, social workers and the judiciary are trained and in similar places, along with more cooperation with NGOs and the executive.
For this, the prosecuting authorities will need staff and funding allocated to them, and information offices on the trade in women will need to be set up.
I am not, however, in favour of the clients being criminalised across the board, and I have, in this report, endeavoured to avoid focusing on national legislation on prostitution and thereby sacrificing a global problem to national differences.
As you can see, there is much for us to do in contending with the trafficking in human beings, and we have to be aware that these tragedies are being played out on our doorsteps. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased with the debate that has taken place on this subject.
It takes an integrated approach geared towards finalising a European action plan for firmly and decisively combating the traffic in human beings.
This plan specifically refers to best practice and to common standards and procedures to combat and prevent trafficking in human beings.
With today’s report, which I particularly endorse and value, Parliament is adopting a vital – and certainly necessary – political role of its own, paying particular attention to women and children.
These are the groups which, in my view, are most vulnerable to this real kind of slavery, which Europe has a duty to fight.
This is not a legal or bureaucratic basis, but one of our fundamental principles grounded in the rules of the Treaties and of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, and also, if I may say so, in the rules of morality.
That is another important point: demand is unfortunately a key part of exploitation.
The Member States have different legislations and, although there is a framework decision precisely on trafficking in human beings, child exploitation, the vile subject of paedophilia and child pornography, harmonisation at a practical level still appears limited.
The Commission has also attempted to base the approach to European legislation on the major guidelines drawn up by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
I am pleased to see that the Council also shares this approach and is thus in favour of extending all forms of child protection to young people under 18 years of age.
We must not define the concept of ‘child’ too restrictively: those who are not yet 18 must also be able to benefit from the protection rules recognised by the United Nations and Europe.
I also agree with another aspect of the report, where it emphasises the links between the strictly criminal matter of human trafficking and illegal immigration.
In short, those who negotiate with the Union and intend to develop close international relations with us must be aware that the European Union cannot even remotely tolerate the enormous traffic in and exploitation of women and children, and of human beings in general.
At the same time, I intend not only to accept Parliament’s invitation but also to propose a great many practical initiatives which, on the basis of the action plan approved in December, will transform our desire to thoroughly stamp out the traffic in human beings, particularly women and children, into concrete action. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Frattini, it is gratifying that Parliament is today debating the trafficking of women and children.
When the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, for which I was draftsman, decided on the opinion I was to draft, there was not only a very large majority in favour of strongly condemning the odious trafficking of persons but also a desire to see human trafficking as an aspect of prostitution in the EU.
What was important to the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs was to set the target of halving the trade within ten years and to see considerable efforts made to ensure that we MEPs obtain a better basis for decision-making, better statistics and, of course, better cooperation between police, prosecutors and judges.
I hope that all the speakers in this Chamber today are able to give their support to this protest against the trafficking of women.
I intend to return to this issue on a later occasion, for example in connection with our debate on Mr&#160;Frattini’s communication.
For the first time, the ground has been prepared for a genuine common policy for combating this terrible modern-day scourge.
During the December part-session, half of the Members in this House supported the establishment of helplines for children.
This was an issue that concerned both your predecessor, Mr Vitorino, and Mrs Gradin; thank heavens there are rather more people interested in it now.
What should go forth from today’s debate is a clear message to the organisations that we support women in their campaign and will not shrink back from raising the issue of demand for prostitutes in specific terms.
The laws in Europe on paedophilia, sex tourism and organised prostitution are in fact so diverse that we really need to show courage and determination in order to reach a consensus.
It is our duty to reflect together on the implementation of in-depth laws to stop the growth in these markets and to thwart those who seek out, encourage and try to put in place these kinds of activities.
It is, in any case, crucial to arrive at a zero tolerance approach where cases of paedophilia and sexual exploitation are concerned, but we must also succeed in using information campaigns to raise clients’ awareness and to give them a sense of responsibility.
In actual fact, even if the client’s role in all of this is a pitiful one, I am convinced that it should not be swept under the carpet.
I therefore fully support the Prets report, which urges the Commission and the Council to establish a clear legal framework for combating this form of violence.
The report makes reference to a number of these latter, including poverty, unemployment, social exclusion, lack of education, corruption and violence.
This produces people who operate according to primitive instincts and reasoning alone, and who lack empathy and the capacity for spiritual growth. &#160;&#160; I wish to express my thanks to Mrs Christa Prets for her report.
Trafficking in persons, in particular women and children, is one of the worst forms of crime organised by international criminal groups.
In my view, however, it is also important to monitor the actual implementation of these conventions. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mrs Prets' report is a truly exceptional, complete and integrated report.
It touches briefly on all aspects of the problem of the movement of and trafficking in women and children for sexual exploitation.
Congratulations my honourable friend, and congratulations also to Commissioner Frattini on the sensitivity which he has shown and for the views which he expressed today on this issue.
The phenomenon of trafficking for sexual exploitation and trafficking in women and children is a serious disgrace to contemporary society.
Prostitution is the atrocious reason for trafficking in human beings, but prostitution and trafficking in human beings are two sides of the same coin.
It is a fact that there is social tolerance of prostitution in all the Member States of the European Union.
However, there appears to be no tolerance of trafficking for sexual exploitation in woman and, more importantly, children in any Member State.
The European Parliament is being called on to approve the Prets report by an overwhelming majority because, apart from anything else, it adopts for the first time the position of making the acceptance of such sexual services incriminating. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur and focus my speech on the use of the new information and communication technologies, particularly the Internet, and the trafficking of women and children for sexual exploitation, an aspect which has also been mentioned in the report and which has not yet been raised in this debate.
The laws in force in each country also apply to the users and creators of the new information and communication technologies but, in practice, the very extra-territorial nature of those technologies and the fact that those laws are different in each country, make them extremely difficult to apply.
If we really want Europe to be an area in which freedom and security are compatible values which enhance each other mutually, we must also deal with this problem decisively, thoroughly and in a joint fashion.
This is a difficult problem that requires cooperation at European level.
Trafficking in human beings and prostitution are closely related, since trafficking in human beings supplies prostitution with new women and children.
It is time for some action across all areas of politics, because the sad numbers of victims show how the action taken up till now has been unable to control this situation.
We cannot turn a blind eye to this worldwide scourge, which affects 600&#160;000 to 800&#160;000 people, of whom 80% are women and children, and the EU, where more than 100&#160;000 people a year are victims, is also not immune.
There are clear links between trafficking of this nature and war, political instability in the countries of origin, the deepening of social and regional inequality, the feminisation of poverty and unemployment and violence against women and children, which means that fresh approaches and integrated policies are required.
It is well known that trafficking for sexual exploitation is directly linked to prostitution, and it is therefore a matter of urgent priority that a range of integrated measures be adopted with the aim of protecting the dignity of women and children, and of taking action to combat the trafficking of human beings.
However, I do not know of any national governments that have not already made these illegal.
If you start to criminalise the client in these matters, you will find that the law of unintended consequence comes into play, something at which I am afraid this Parliament is all too adept. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, is as old as human society.
It is also true that, even if this practice is almost always judged to be condemnable and disparaging for the position of man compared with other living creatures, at no time and in no civilisation, including of course in our European civilisation, has it been addressed effectively.
The Prets report, on the one hand, is yet another attempt to highlight the ineffectiveness of national and Community laws and actions.
I am highlighting what is for me the high point of the report, even though I know the difficulties and the limitations imposed by the Treaties, the call for a clear legal basis to be adopted in order to combat all forms of violence against and trafficking in women and children and the full communitisation of a horizontal European policy for prevention and to protect the victims in the sectors of immigration, employment, commerce and banking transactions, transport, tourism and the new technologies which can be used to make trafficking and exploitation uncontrollable and prosecution unfeasible.
We need to take the struggle up to the level of a joint European Union policy, so that we can reduce the number of slaves by half within 10 years, as underlined by the report.
At the same time, the opportunities afforded by the European Neighbourhood Policy must be more effectively implemented.
The victims of trafficking in human beings are made all the more vulnerable by the poor economic conditions of their families and home countries.
At the same time, sources argue that every other prostitute in Paris is from Moldova.
Therefore I share the rapporteur’s opinion that in political discussions with third countries, the Council and Commission must also very seriously raise the topic of trafficking in women and children.
In combating trafficking in human beings, one should also permit victims who testify to start a new life in a new country if they so wish.
Thank you for your attention, and once again I would like to express my deepest thanks to the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Madam President, there are always three sides to the trafficking of human beings: the victims, the organised crime networks and the demand side.
A recent comprehensive study commissioned by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality and conducted by the Italian-based Transcrime Institute, shows that this restrictive view on the demand side has a decisive impact on the number of victims of trafficking.
I will end this speech in the same way I have promised to every time I speak in this House: – ‘I therefore maintain that prostitution must be abolished’. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wholeheartedly welcome Mrs Prets’ report on combating the trafficking of slaves and those who are vulnerable to sexual exploitation.
I welcome the report’s emphasis on setting defined targets to tackle trafficking in the coming years with a view to its total eradication. &#160;&#160; Madam President, human trafficking is a very serious violation of human rights.
In many cases, those who end up in prostitution are victims of human trafficking, and they are treated like .
We must protect them from this, both in and outside of the Community, with all the means we have at our disposal both in the corrective and preventive spheres.
We must also prevent people from ending up in that in the first place.
I should like to thank Mrs Prets for her report.
The amendments I tabled are meant to add detail to it, and I hope that my fellow Members can accept them. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, I want to start by congratulating my honourable friend, Mrs Prets, on her own initiative report which aims to highlight the major moral and political problem of trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation.
This is not a new issue, but it is worth asking how European societies and the civilised world in general tolerates and, more importantly, maintains these phenomena.
Secondly, the state is responsible, given that the Member States have not managed to control and combat these phenomena and their impact on the human victims.
However, the European Union has certainly played a positive role in raising awareness, in cooperation and in addressing the phenomenon.
The 2002 framework decision and the 2004 directive contributed to a certain legislative harmonisation and to broader cooperation.
I too would reiterate the importance of a common definition of the crime, so that we can collect statistics, the European arrest warrant, a clear legal basis, so that our policies and their Community and national budgets acquire European added value and effectiveness. &#160;&#160; Madam President, everyone here this evening has stressed that combating the trafficking of women and children for sexual purposes should be given far greater priority in Europe.
We should also search our own hearts, for there is no market without clients.
Money must be made, and that is why clients are needed, so we must start close at home in order to raise awareness and public sensitivity, as well as the visibility of this distressing problem, and to discourage the exploitation of these women and children in our Member States.
The Europe-wide anti-human trafficking day, for which this report argues, could serve as a useful instrument in this.
I look forward to hearing what Commissioner Frattini has to say on this subject, and whether he intends to embrace the idea.
At the same time though, we should not shy away from sacred cows in this report, namely the World Cup, for major events such as these have a habit of attracting criminals who want to make a fast buck at the expense of women and children.
We should also take far more decisive measures in tracing and prosecuting these criminals.
Europe is too slow in introducing legislation that intends to combat human trafficking, and the criminal investigation services do not yet accord its combating the priority status it deserves.
Europol too should start tracing criminals as a matter of priority.
It is a problem about which no-one – and in particular the European Parliament – can remain impassive, especially when the information is extremely worrying for the Member States of the European Union.
The words 'trafficking in human beings', 'sexual exploitation' and 'forced prostitution', at both national and global level, encompass the risk of a pandemic similar to that which poverty and hunger have created, mainly in the developing countries, in the lower echelons of these societies.
The rapporteur is right to point this out, but the roots of evil run deep and in such cases the best cure is prevention, vigilance on the part of the countries which host such sporting events and, most importantly, public information for the citizens which constitute the shield of society, women and children.
I fully agree with the idea of a European helpline for victims, particularly children.
I intend to write a formal letter to the German Government to recommend that specific preventive measures be taken during the 2006 football World Cup to prevent the influx and concentration of persons who would, unfortunately, be destined to go into prostitution during that period.
It will not be a difficult operation, since these are problems that are easy to spot, and the German Federal Government’s means and resources, including its investigative resources, will be in a position to help us.
There will be a debate on this topic and, although it seems there is some divergence of opinion on it, I believe we can all agree that there would be no trafficking in human beings, or at least much less, if it were not for the people who call for it.
The last subject on which I should like to focus is information exchange: more information must be given to the countries of origin, but also more information must be exchanged within European Union Member States.
I can tell you that an initial investigation last year into a gang of paedophiles in 13 European countries, coordinated by Europol itself, led to the arrest of almost 100 people.
That shows that Europe can and must take action.
Of course, you can always count on my staunch support. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
I have been able to tell Commissioner Mandelson that, in Hong Kong, the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council were more united than in Brussels, and that was important in this difficult negotiation.
The Committee is going to produce an initiative report, the rapporteur for which will be Mr Papastamkos.
I share the Commissioner’s view that the result are insufficient to make the meeting a success, but sufficient to prevent it from being seen as a failure.
The progress made in relation to agricultural export subsidies, to the production and trade in cotton and access to markets free of tariffs and export quotas for the least developed countries is not inconsiderable.
It is important to confirm to our partners in the developing countries that we remain true to our commitment that this should be a development round.
Nevertheless, we are still a very long way from achieving a global and balanced result and there is still a lot of work to be done if we want this round to be completed by the end of this year, in view of the limitation represented by the expiry of the United States Trade Promotion Authority, granted by Congress.
As I said before, an important meeting is going to take place in Geneva at the end of April, at which we believe the European Parliament should be represented according to the methods we agree.
Commissioner, how do you intend to ensure a balance amongst the concessions in these three sectors while also respecting the timetable set?
Finally, Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, I would like to thank Commissioner Mandelson and Commissioner Fischer Boel and their teams of negotiators for the efforts they have made and the attention they have paid to us.
This is a relationship which is very important to me, and I hope that our debate this evening is a further demonstration of that.
I am determined to keep these close and regular contacts between us going in the future.
You asked me to give my evaluation of the results of the Hong Kong meeting and say what conclusions can be drawn from it.
I am going to meet other Members here in Strasbourg tomorrow.
We have to bear in mind that expectations had been significantly lowered before we arrived in Hong Kong.
Nonetheless, we made an important contribution, which was recognised as such, by accepting 2013 as the date for the final elimination of all agricultural export subsidies.
One important achievement in Hong Kong was agreement on the development package, which was made possible by the determined pressure we had placed on other developed countries in the months prior to Hong Kong.
More generally, the outcome of Hong Kong leaves us with everything still to play for, and nothing in the final text prevents us from continuing to seek the kind of ambition and balance that have been our watchwords throughout this negotiation.
Firstly, there is a risk of some front-loading of negotiations on agriculture and NAMA – industrial goods – and then back-loading negotiations on services, rules and GIs.
Secondly, a direct relationship has been established between market access for industrial goods and agricultural goods, which some WTO members might be tempted to interpret as necessitating reduced new market access for industrial goods, as opposed to new market access for agricultural goods.
Europe could settle, reluctantly and grudgingly, at the end of the day, for a minimalist outcome.
But I have to say to you that it would be a great shame, a great pity and a great loss to do so.
So I will be engaging vigorously with all my partners in the weeks ahead to see if the negotiating material and the energy are still there for an ambitious and balanced outcome.
I know that the United States Trade Promotion Authority will expire in mid-2007, and I will do what I can to achieve ambitious outcomes within the timeframes that we agreed to work to in Hong Kong, but not if that means sacrificing European interests or those of weak and vulnerable developing countries, which also need to gain tangibly from this round.
For example, that for the vast majority of developing countries we can give a lot, but seek nothing or very little in return.
Since agriculture is less than 5% of world trade in goods and services, it is obvious that the biggest gains of this round lay elsewhere, not only for the European Union but in particular for developing countries, which would benefit immensely from expanding their trade with each other where the bulk of that trade takes place, which is in industrial goods, not agriculture.
All our proposals include special and differential treatment which, in the case of the least-developed countries and the most vulnerable countries, basically means that they will not be requested to make any liberalising effort in this round.
Finally, I should like to talk about your role and contribution in the months to come.
Europe will not be ready to pay for a round that offers nothing new on industrial market access, services, GIs or other rules that lend strength to the multilateral way of managing our international affairs.
We will continue reassessing and fine-tuning our negotiating position in the light of the reactions and comments we get from other WTO members, but mostly, of course, from the Council and from you.
I will again outline my approach in a trade policy speech next Monday, 23&#160;January, in Berlin, after I have heard your views tonight. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I shall refrain from referring to the specific objectives of the European Union and the outcome of the negotiations in Hong Kong subject by subject.
The Hong Kong conference demonstrated that our path towards the successful integration and completion of the current round remains open.
This effort unites us.
Following Seattle and Cancun, however, a new setback would have opened the door to a proliferation of even more unbalanced bilateral agreements between the North and the South.
That being said, I should like today, in this House, to pay tribute to the work you have done, not only on keeping the European Parliament delegation constantly up-to-date, but also – and above all – on ensuring that the Member States’ position was coherent in Hong Kong.
In saying that, I am thinking, in particular, of the difficult decision that had to be taken in order to reach a unanimous agreement on the elimination of agricultural export subsidies by 2013.
We have seen once again the extent to which there is still a deep crisis of confidence between industrialised countries and developing countries and the extent to which the clash between national interests constantly threatens the steps taken towards achieving our common objectives: development, the eradication of poverty and fairer trade on an international scale.
The EU had a budget plan until 2013 and the WTO concluded the Hong Kong declaration.
The elimination of trade-distorting agricultural export subsidies in 2013 is three years later than hoped for, and amounts to a symbolic gesture to the world’s poorest farmers.
The only compensation for all that comes in the form of very strong pressure aimed at liberalising services and manufactured products, something that jeopardises extremely weak economies.
We are particularly anxious about this matter at a time when many of our fellow citizens are deeply concerned about, and doubt, the European Union’s ability to control economic globalisation, given the way in which it is being managed at the moment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this was supposed to be called the development round, but frankly I think we can sum it up like this: the winner is the self-interest of the Northern countries of the world.
I should like to know how one can talk of a development round when faced with such a reality. &#160;&#160; .
The Commission should therefore pull out all the stops in order to hold onto the momentum of Hong Kong in 2006, so that an acceptable agreement can be reached in the area of industry and the services sector too.
But I must say from my understanding of what happened in Hong Kong that enormous pressure was exerted on the European model of agriculture at those talks, all in the name of helping developing countries.
This should be rethought in the interests of the overall talks, because I believe agriculture will always be a problem. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Mandelson, five lessons have been learnt from the Hong Kong Summit.
Firstly, there is a flaw in our negotiating method.
One year prior to the Summit, we make agricultural concessions by revising the CAP.
Secondly, Hong Kong validates Seattle and Cancun.
Thirdly, developing countries such as Mexico criticise the ostensibly generous reduction in customs duties aimed at promoting market access because these countries have understood all too well that the customs ‘gift’ is not intended for the poor, but for companies from the North manufacturing their products among the poor, for example in Bangladesh or Vietnam.
Mr&#160;Mandelson, if you were to achieve that, you would be Harry Potter, you would have succeeded in marrying together the theories of both Ricardo and Frederick List, you would have resolved the problem of global economic imbalances and you would have protected the interests of the poor and those of the rich, free trade and our social model in one fell swoop. &#160;&#160; Mr President, before I thank Commissioner Mandelson and he falls off his chair at the thought of my thanking him, I should like to make a criticism of the way that Parliament was involved there.
Robert Portman asked why the European Parliament was there and what the Members were doing.
Commissioner, I would first like to thank your staff: Mrs&#160;Nikolay was outstanding, as was Mr Trojan.
It is very important to Europe and many other countries.
Thank you for all the work you did, Commissioner, and may it continue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take as my starting point the point just made by Mr Sturdy.
Its continued use probably makes sense, but I strongly suspect that the future of the WTO will depend on other methods being found, on a more flexible outlook that will probably involve allowing issues to be negotiated in parallel and the use of a flexible and rolling work plan.
My own group consistently attaches a great deal of importance to the multilateral negotiating round and I am very much in favour of it, but it must nevertheless be clear to us that bilateral negotiations are of value too.
My fourth point has to do with standards.
The ministerial meeting in Hong Kong did not live up to the promise, and that is worrying because, if we do not succeed in lifting 2&#160;billion human beings out of poverty and hunger, the world will march towards a series of uncontrollable political and social explosions with devastating effects.
Credit is due to Commissioner Mandelson for having represented a Europe in Hong Kong that was less arrogant than the United States.
What comes into play here is qualification, participation at our price level and to our standards, so that these countries’ economies can develop.
I hope that you will think these things through again and give priority to qualification when working through the next round. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, with a uniform strategy the European Union and the United States of America, despite their antagonisms, have used the sixth ministerial conference of the WTO to step up exploitation of the peoples and the plundering of the wealth-producing resources of developing countries.
The agreement on non-agricultural products constitutes an insurmountable obstacle to industrial development in developing countries.
This is a crime against humanity, given that over 30&#160;000 people die every day, as victims of the exorbitant products of the international pharmaceutical industry, because they do not have access to drugs to combat major epidemics.
This proves that agreements through the World Trade Organisation are simply cowardly ... &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we were expecting much more from the Hong Kong meeting, even though it had already been announced that it was going to be a talking shop.
Such unfair competition, as in the case of China, consists of social and environmental dumping.
In this case, the situation is precisely the other way around.
I detect two worrying reactions.
For Europe, the conference in Hong Kong should be a call to wake up, and not only to the obvious fact that the protectionism we practise in agricultural matters is costing us the far more important matter of the liberalisation of trade in services and industrial goods.
The same applies to a large number of sensitive products for which no progress has been made whatsoever, again, I believe, as a result of the EU’s own attitude.
It is a very good thing, though, that a deadline for export subsidies has now been set for 2013.
I think we are still writing cheques with nothing to back them up, and it is obvious that we are wholly opposed to the idea of the poor people of Latin America, Asia or Africa paying, as it were, for our solidarity.
In order to turn this development round into a success, the European Union must show its teeth.
Not by now insisting on the liberalisation of services with the G20 – all we need to do is to look in the European Union to see how difficult we are finding this – but by putting the labour standards at the top of the global agenda for the next round and by reforming our agriculture more quickly and more extensively during the current round.
The Commissioner deserves much credit for having averted a failure.
I think we need to reconsider this, since all the others used subterfuges.
On the credit side, I would like to point out that your negotiating style and the way in which you communicated information to this House helped reinforce our determination, and for that you have our warm thanks.
I have to tell the Commissioner that our geographical designations of origin and the intellectual property that is tied in with them are things for which we have to fight.
The world had hoped that the EU would show leadership, demonstrate its solidarity with the developing countries and make efforts to secure genuine free trade with full access to the industrialised countries’ markets, particularly for the poorest countries.
The EU should have used its powerful position to develop the WTO into an efficient multilateral agreement system with clear social and environmental conditions for trade.
Firstly, the Commission was equipped with good ideas, but its lack of any strategy for how to communicate and convince meant that the public perception of the EU was that it was almost always on the defensive.
Secondly, the original objective of the Doha development round was to agree on an ambitious programme for the reform and liberalisation of trade policy, particularly for the benefit of developing countries.
Here in Europe, we see a whole generation completing their school education without having learned the fundamentals of the social market economy and world trade, and that is why they are easy prey for campaigns of misinformation and untruths.
Mr Mandelson, these countries are our natural allies, but unless we really prove that we have in place a Doha development mandate, and that we are honouring that mandate, then I believe that in the months ahead we will not be able to rely on our ACP colleagues.
In reality, the trade interests of the 149 developed and developing countries are very difficult to reconcile.
Therefore, I invite the European Commission to initiate WTO reform: to modify regulations and decision-making, to add new dimensions to the regulations, for example social and environmental issues, and to promote fair trade competition among all WTO members, both developed and developing States.
There are other people who need to make progress in this field and, as other speakers have said, perhaps what has most grated in this House has been the United States’ hypocritical position with regard to the European Union in the field of agriculture and also on development issues.
For them as well, since services affect all economic sectors and this is a crucial issue for the European Union.
As you have said, involving Parliament means involving the citizens.
Finally, how do you believe the agreements reached in Hong Kong will affect the negotiations of the desired agreement between the European Union and Mercosur? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to return to this complex matter.
Firstly, in a complex world, it is vital that nations have a space worldwide for multilateral dialogue so they can discuss international trade issues.
The Member States need to understand that it is no longer possible to call on parliaments to vote in favour of funding international trade agreements and so to ratify them, without involving MEPs in the negotiations.
I believe that most of the blame for what still needs to be done does not lie with the European Union; it lies with our leading partners.
It stands to reason that more time has been taken out to strike the best balance between aid to poor countries and attention to the economic strength of our own.
I am pleased that the Commissioner shares my view that this round should be a development round, and I should like to congratulate him on his energy and commitment.
I think that he is negotiating from a particularly difficult position, because his mandate is known to the public beforehand and is the result of a public decision-making process in the Union.
In order to prevent the negotiations in Geneva from going without public support, I would ask the Commissioner to apply the same level of commitment when entering further into the negotiations and continuing to inform the EP about the state of affairs and about the strategy, with a view to making the necessary progress, even in important areas such as counterfeiting and services.
Indeed, much needs to be done in those areas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Hong Kong round is over, and where does the WTO go now?
The points I would like to make today have more to do with the general situation.
For a start, Commissioner, you have made very good use of the negotiating mandate that you were given.
The question is, though, whether that is enough, and how things can be done in the future.
In saying this, I am looking into the future rather than criticising the work they are doing now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I note that in his opening remarks, replying to Mr Barón Crespo’s oral question, the Commissioner asked for Parliament’s suggestions about future activity and future developments.
I will try and be brief, but a very large number of points and issues have been raised in this debate.
That is harder, and that is the challenge held out before me in the coming months.
I am in complete agreement with the Member who said that we need to strengthen the rights of the European Parliament in relation to trade – I have always said that – and, in the spirit of the times, given that our relationship is going so swimmingly, I cannot think of anything I would rather have than a strengthened relationship between us.
All is fair in love and war in international trade negotiations, and we have to understand that where our negotiating partners arrive at a convergence of interests, notably in respect of agriculture, you will find a cacophony of voices directed against us, all of which have one goal in mind, which is to place pressure on the unity of the 25 Member States: to seek to divide the 25 and as a result, find advantage for themselves in the negotiations.
We are not going to complete this round unless we are able to find some accommodation between ourselves and the interests and negotiating objectives of the G20 group of emerging economies.
We would not be able to negotiate as we are; we would not have the prospect of finding a satisfactory outcome if we did not have those G20 countries, the emerging economies organised as they are and brought together as coherently as they are, in these negotiations.
I think therefore that post-Cancún, yes, it gives us a lot of grief sometimes in the European Union to find our negotiating partners so well organised, but on the other hand the opposite of organisation is chaos and chaos is the enemy of a successful trade round.
However, just as I welcome our negotiating partners in the G20, I think those Members who have pointed out tonight that we need to cement our coalition of interests and our relationship with the ACP countries are also correct.
And so it is the case that when we are criticised, as the Commission has been on one or two occasions this evening, for not taking agricultural reform fast enough or far enough for the interests and benefit of certain rather more competitive developing countries, we have to understand that during the course of that reform, the further it goes or the faster it goes, the more pain we will be causing other developing countries to experience.
The Commission’s approach – and I say this on behalf of Mrs Fischer Boel as well as myself – is clear.
We proposed EUR&#160;190&#160;million per year for each year between 2007 and 2013 for our proposed sugar action plan agreed with ACP countries.
Tonight I invite the European Parliament to help the Commission ensure that there is enough money to make that action plan a reality and to make sure that it genuinely meets the needs of those sugar-dependent ACP countries with whom we have had such an important historical relationship – a relationship we want to carry over as meaningfully to the future – and to help us ensure that that budgetary allocation is sustained.
I should like to mention another issue that constantly arises – quite rightly – in these negotiations, concerning investment in services and a service-based infrastructure of developing countries.
Liberalisation in services is as important a part of the inbuilt agenda of this round as agriculture.
I want to stress that our purpose in these negotiations is to boost commerce, because trade drives inter-economic growth.
However, as European agriculture changes and evolves, the importance of specialised production and products and of those products associated with geographical indications becomes ever greater.
In my view GIs are of vital interest.
Yes, the European Union pay extra into this round and into this system in order to keep alive, to strengthen and to carry forward the multilateral values and principles that are at the heart of this round.
We still have another debate, so we must move on.
As far as Mr Mandelson is concerned, the rise from 55% to 60% in the WTO negotiations, which was described by the Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Pascal Lamy, as a ‘resounding success’, rescued the summit from failure.
Our constant contacts and cooperation in Montreal bore fruit.
The Kyoto Protocol has now been put into full operation, while the agreement on the Montreal action plan paves the way for discussion of future international cooperation on climate change issues.
This will safeguard, among other things, greater security for the European carbon dioxide emissions market and for the private sector.
All the parties which have not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, including the United States and Australia and, of course, all the major developing countries, are included in the Convention dialogue.
A thorough, forward-looking dialogue will be held on the basis of the Convention, in the form of four workshops to be held over the next two years.
The results of the dialogue will be presented at the Conference of Parties in 2007.
The Kyoto dialogue will be used to discuss further emission reductions by developing countries on the basis of the Kyoto Protocol for the period after 2012.
A special ad hoc United Nations working group has been set up within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol.
This party will complete its work as quickly as possible and in time to ensure that there is no gap between the first and second Kyoto commitment period.
The compliance decision makes the Kyoto Protocol binding for all parties and makes provision for a Compliance Committee to be set up.
The five-year adaptation work programme contains a full set of activities, including work designed to further enhance our knowledge of the impacts of and the problems caused by climate change.
Thirdly, the Montreal Conference went further, making the Kyoto Protocol a stronger and more effective system.
The secretariat will hire more staff, in order to improve the services which it provides to the Executive Board and its committees.
The joint implementation bodies were also set up.
The European Union also pledged a sum of money in order to strengthen the committee supervising the joint implementation mechanism.
Finally, the European Union used the Montreal Conference to demonstrate its significant progress in the application of the Kyoto Protocol.
Most of the Member States need to apply additional measures in order to achieve the Kyoto objectives.
The current second stage of the European programme on climate change will help to determine the optimum measures.
I should also like to touch on the question of dialogue within the European Union on climate change.
I believe that the agreement to launch an international dialogue achieved in Montreal is an important stimulus for the European Union.
The Montreal conference ratified this approach.
The European Union now needs to cooperate with all sides, especially those with a large share of emissions, such as the United States, and the countries with emerging economies, in a constructive dialogue on broadening participation in the future international regime in the climate change sector.
On the basis of this review, I shall propose new initiatives to strengthen our climate policy, depending on the results of this process of consultation with the interested parties.
The resolution that is before us tomorrow gives a good and complete overview of the results and expectations of the climate conference held in Montreal last December.
The conference was a success and the climate resolution reflects our appreciation for starting the dialogue about future climate policy.
The resolution looks ahead to the second period of commitment after 2012 and also welcomes the United States on board, even though we remain critical about the lack of commitment on the part of the Bush administration.
Finland and Austria should work with the Commission to draft a clear EU proposal to other countries.
The Kyoto Protocol has promoted the use of renewable sources of energy, but in order for positive development to continue the European Union must show more initiative in further developing these energy sources both in Europe and elsewhere in the world.
We should also bear in mind, however, the rapid development of China and India, for instance, which are home to a third of the world’s population and where it is essential to find a balance between the needs of development and environmental protection.
I also call on the Commission, working together with the European Parliament and the Council, to formulate and actively defend a European Union strategy in talks at the UN forums on the future of the Kyoto Protocol and post-2012 commitments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we know that climate change is dangerous and that it has been triggered not only by worldwide industrialisation and explosive population growth, but also by changes in nature.
If we do not soon make a start on at last implementing the environmentally-friendly technologies for propulsion and energy that we have developed, on putting a stop to the squandering of water and on the abolition of subsidies for trans-European transport, then we will be condemning our children, and their children in turn, to life in a permanent state of ecological emergency. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I was a member of Parliament’s delegation to the Montreal Conference, and saw at first hand the efforts made by Commissioner Dimas and the British Presidency to reach an agreement, which, while not ideal, was very reasonable.
One thing is for sure: if we do not act right away, we will be mortgaging our children’s futures. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Dimas, you have the most important task of all the Commissioners.
Of course, we have been fighting all this time to achieve the objectives which we set at the beginning of the year in our communication, which the European Parliament also adopted and which made the relevant recommendations for winning the battle against climate change.
This communication was the main document which set out the relevant arguments and on the basis of which the overall debate was held which terminated in the Montreal agreement – and not just in Montreal, but also during the intermediate discussions at the European Council, at Gleneagles at the G8 summit, in Bonn and during other discussions held before Montreal.
It therefore shows how important the contribution of the European Union was, both with this communication and the various interim discussions at bilateral level which we held with countries such as India, China and other rapidly developing countries, such as Mexico and Brazil, which are countries that emit large quantities of carbon dioxide, and with the climate of confidence which we cultivated throughout this time so as to achieve this success.
I honestly believe that with you, with your help, which we urgently need, we shall be able to help combat this major problem for the world as a whole. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received one motion for a resolution(1) tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday.
