Secondly, we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster, namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions.
The disaster off the coast of Brittany is truly enormous in scale.
As this House indicated in its first resolution on 20 January, the needs of the severely affected fisheries, ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account.
Mr President, over two months after the wreck of the Erika, pollution of the coasts, which have already been cleaned once, is still continuing.
Thanks to the grass-roots involvement, which this House furthered by organising a debate and adopting a resolution on 20 January, an initial raft of measures has been announced.
So, yes, Total Fina must provide the financial resources to contribute to the repair of ecological, economic and social damage and to compensate the people affected by the disaster.
Mr President, the reason why it is important to return to the subject of the oil slick, two and a half months after the wreck of the Erika, is because the extent of the economic, social and ecological disaster affecting our Atlantic coastline is, in fact, far greater than the first assessments gave us to understand.
The ecological disaster is a major one, possibly unprecedented in scale.
Some of them have already lost several years' worth of harvests, but the 50% to 80% slump in sales is affecting all the harbours on the Atlantic coastline, and even those in the Channel and North Sea.
The two principle resources of the Atlantic shore, fishing and tourism, both closely interrelated, have both been seriously affected.
The first point is that the polluter must accept his liability in full.
The second principle is the 'polluter pays' principle.
Our resolution calls upon the Commission to take the necessary steps to assist in repairing the damage caused in the fishing industry affected by the consequences of the disaster.
The polluter pays principle must be applied consistently.
Confronted with this situation, the inhabitants of Brittany, the Vendée and Charente, as well as the forestry workers in other regions, await a signal from the European Union.
In the case of the Erika, the local fishing and aquaculture industries have suffered a bitter blow and it is important not just to look at the harmful effects that are apparent today but also to look ahead at the long-term detrimental effects of oil pollution.
Mr President, today, once again, it is necessary to discuss the Erika disaster, two and a half months after it occurred, because its tragic consequences are far from over.
I hope that the Commission will adopt these proposals before the end of March, for this will enable us to make progress on the preventative measures front.
These measures are very welcome and the Committee on Fisheries will monitor these very closely so that we do not have to spend more time in this House regretting such disasters.
The debate is closed.
I refer to Article 38 of the territorial requirement which restricts the scope to the territory of the State of Israel and thus does not grant special customs arrangements for products coming from the territories which were occupied by Israeli armed forces in June 1967 and upon which, in breach of all the international rules, from the fourth Geneva Convention onwards, the different Israeli governments have built settlements, confiscating Palestinian land and water and installing their own people.
Israel can be certain that Europe is in favour of its security and stability, but it cannot ask us to be party to such grave violations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions you put to the Commission, Mrs Morgantini, concern possible illegal exports to the European Community from Israeli settlements or from the occupied territories benefiting from preferential treatment, and which therefore cast doubt on whether the rules on preferential origin are being properly applied.
President Arafat accepted this proposal at a meeting on 24 January with Commissioner Patten.
Furthermore, exports from the territory of the State of Israel and the current Palestinian territories to the European Union receive preferential treatment from the European Union.
Therefore, it would make good sense now for Israel to guarantee the legally irreproachable application of this concrete preferential arrangement on its national territory, and for the Palestinians to do the same in respect of their interim territory.
Ultimately, all producers, be they Israeli or Palestinian, should be afforded easier access to the European Union market once the territorial issues have been conclusively resolved, which will come step-by-step with the construction of a future Palestinian state.
Some might therefore consider it reasonable to argue that, since the irregular exports to Europe from the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories are not regarded as a priority political problem, these should be halted until a final peace agreement is achieved.
Mr President, Commissioner, since the signing of the Oslo Agreements in 1995, Israeli-Palestinian relations have entered a new phase, which should lead to a fair and lasting peace between partners which respect each other.
The Union has played an invaluable part in this process, in its capacity as the primary source of economic aid to the region.
The main reason for the problems of implementing trade agreements between the European Union and Israel, as has already been said, is the intractable problem of frontiers.
Mr President, Commissioner, the peace process in the Middle East is an extremely delicate matter.
It will only be possible for the exact borders of the state of Israel, the only democracy in that region, to be universally recognised once these negotiations have proved to be a success.
Firstly, despite the current difficulties which we saw for ourselves in situ, we must repeat our support for the direct dialogue between the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority which is producing a fair, stable and definitive peace agreement.
Secondly, it is in the interests of both parties to ensure the economic development of the region and to take decisive action to reduce the serious imbalances in the distribution of wealth in the area.
Thirdly and finally, perhaps the Commission could bear in mind the usefulness of participating in the work of a tripartite working group, naturally involving the European Union, to guarantee compliance with trade agreements and to ensure progress in the assistance offered by the European Union to all the parties concerned.
Seen in this perspective, this initiative should also be viewed as positive, and as an initiative intended to further the Middle East peace process.
We are major donors but we have, unfortunately been marginalised in terms of policy and political influence for too long in the Middle East and we can contribute positively, as many speakers have said today, just as we did in the case of Northern Ireland.
Goods do flow freely from these territories, goods produced in Israeli settlements in the occupied territories.
Anything liable to separate the two economies would have a serious effect on cooperation between Israel and Palestine, including joint ventures, Palestinian sub-contractors and exporters.
This would constitute an important and practical contribution on our part towards facilitating cooperation between Israel and its immediate environs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank all of you who have taken part in this debate for the excellent, valuable contributions you have made, as we are addressing an issue which is undoubtedly very sensitive politically speaking.
The Commission is also aware that the political importance attributed to the peace process by the European Union is reflected in Parliament and in the Commission, as has been said here by various Members and is a result of the recent visit to the region by President Nicole Fontaine as well as President Romano Prodi' s very recent visit last week.
The truth of the situation is that the approach adopted by the Commission on this subject is to seek to obtain the support and agreement of all parties involved in the process.
This proposal for a Council Regulation is the first in a series which will make it possible to draw up this reform.
The text of the proposal for a Regulation has been amended quite extensively in the Committee on Fisheries.
All the members of our Group voted in favour of these amendments, both in committee and in Parliament.
Amendment No 1 serves to clarify the text considerably.
Let us not forget that in the administration of a common fisheries policy the statistical analysis used must include the social aspect.
Amendment No 3 makes it possible to add an important aspect: the collection of environmental data.
Amendment No 4 specifies the obligation upon scientists to process all the data and pass it on to the relevant authorities, including national and regional authorities, in order to contribute to the decision-making process.
Amendment No 5 serves to mitigate the Commission proposal.
Effectively, the information requested from the authorities must be reasonable in order to allow an operational overview of fishing activities without compromising essential rights to confidentiality, for example, in fiscal matters, where the Community has no jurisdiction.
Amendment No 6 is intended to tighten up the Commission' s participation in the inspection procedure.
It is, however, recognised that other species such as trout, eels or herring, may be carriers of the virus without being affected by it.
The disease was detected in Norway in 1984 and also in Canada (1996).
The virus does not survive at a temperature of more than 26º C, and is therefore not dangerous to humans.
Today, 240 salmon farms are affected by ISA.
It is therefore essential to contain this disease and prevent it spreading to all the aquacultural establishments in the various Member Sates of the European Union.
The usefulness of this proposal is limited, to say the least, certainly in the short term.
Resolution on women in decision making (B5-0180/2000) My Group abstained in the resolution on women in decision making, much to our regret.
In 1994, the Green Group was the first group in this Parliament to have a majority of women in it, the Greens were the first group to have a woman secretary-general in Dominique Voinet, now the French Environment Minister, and the German Greens were the first political party to operate gender parity in order to redress the overall under-representation of women in political institutions.
The resolution makes clear there is a need for a proportional system that gives form to women' s representation and that all political parties must take action.
It gives political parties an important role in building a democratic Europe.
I do not know if there is some cause-and-effect at work here, but the fact is that the proportion of female Members in the European Parliament went from 25.7% in 1994 to 29.9% in 1999.
Moreover, this Parliament has had a woman president since the 1999 elections.
Nevertheless, we recognise that the experience in all Member Sates is not the same and some recourse to such measures may be justified, as a temporary remedy, to rebalance female representation where women are grossly under-represented.
We are opposed to the idea that the biological differences between men and women should give rise to two different world views and two different value systems.
Katiforis report (A5-0041/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Katiforis report on the European Union economy in 1999 to toe the group line, and also because it reveals an extremely serious deficiency which I hope it will contribute to eliminating during the next few years.
The free-marketeering Right' s rejection of the proposed amendments leads us, therefore, to vote against the resolution. - (SV) We have chosen to abstain in the vote on Amendment 4 to the Katiforis report on the EU Economy (1999).
Joint resolution on the shipwreck of the (RC B5-0181/2000) Mr President, we voted in favour of the resolution on the wreck of the Erika out of solidarity with the victims of this ecological disaster.
Confining oneself to deploring the disaster and expressing sympathy for its victims without applying some restraining measures in order to oblige Total to make good all the direct and indirect consequences of the pollution for which it is entirely responsible is tantamount to doing nothing.
It takes far better account than our previous resolution of the extent of the disaster, which every day seems to get far worse than anticipated on first analysis and is becoming more exacting, clearer and more urgent.
Regarding the compensation system, the citizens are anxious because FIPOL' s initial compensation payments to victims have been limited to 25%.
Finally, our resolution clearly stipulates that it is absolutely essential, in matters of maritime safety, to break out of this downward spiral of widespread irresponsibility, this pernicious system of mutual paralysis wherein States dump responsibility onto the Union, and the Union dumps it on the States, and in the end, the polluters are the only winners.
We must, and shall, remain particularly vigilant in the months to come in order to ensure that the victims who bear none of the responsibility whatsoever for this disaster receive compensation in full from the polluter, and to ensure that this time we do in fact learn the lessons from the oil slick in terms of maritime safety, so that polluters are deterred once and for all from gambling with the lives of our coastal populations.
Katiforis report (A5-0017/2000) We agree that the fishing industry has the most to gain from promoting respect for the marine environment.
In its communication, however, at the same time the Commission specifies that it is not in a position to ensure that this legislation is complied with.
Transhipment has become common practice and frequently fish products from one Member State which cannot be sold within the Union due to exceeding the TAC are sold as imported products or as originating from another Member State.
The latter occurs very frequently in businesses whose capital came from a Member State other than the flag State of the fishing vessel (this is actually a way of concealing 'quota-hopping' ).
The members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group shall therefore be voting against this report which does not go into details of the deficiencies of the Commission communication and increases Natura 2000 constraints upon the fisheries sector.
