Mr Lüttge became an MEP in 1989 and was mainly involved in transport policy.
Secondly, the European Year of Lifelong Learning highlighted the Commission's difficulty in providing information and responses and being transparent.
I would like to draw attention to this situation, and I believe that we must rethink our attitude towards education, as we are talking about people and our future.
These are all achievements, but also signs of the time and of the society in which we live: the information age, the information society, the age of knowledge, technology and globalisation, to mention but a few designations.
In order to help these insights come to the fore throughout Europe, 1996 was designated the European Year of Lifelong Learning.
With relatively modest financial resources of ECU 8.4 million from the European Union, a much welcomed ECU 34 million was raised for the project with the help of partner countries from the European Economic Area: Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Norway.
This coincides with the ideas expressed a few months ago at the Lisbon and Feira European Councils, when all the Member States pledged to develop a series of measures at European Union level so that, during this decade, the European Union can become a leading society at international level and achieve the levels of competence that North America has today, particularly in technological areas.
Finally, I therefore recommend that you pay particular attention to points 16, 17, 18, 19, 23 and 24, which constitute a good guide for the achievement of these higher levels of education at European Union level.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate our rapporteur on her excellent work and also on the commendable way in which she cooperated in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
This joiner is between 40 and 50 years of age, speaks four languages and is known as something of a philosopher.
My constituency has just come through a serious crisis in its educational assessment, partly due to a lack of proper consultation with classroom teachers.
It is obviously important to do that as well, but the bulk of people are elderly - elderly people who have to overcome decades of dictatorship but who are, today, able to make a fresh start.
I should also like to say that, in my view, elderly people in particular, who nowadays still have twenty or thirty productive years in front of them after they retire, must be able to play an increased part in our society.
Training and education are being seen more and more clearly as European resources.
Parliament, however, did its best to establish a legal basis in time for the measures to be effected.
I also noted, in the Commission report, in your report, that the initiative engaged the interests of many schools, universities, businesses and associations, not only in the world of education, but also organisations involved in the economy, in combating social exclusion or concerned with rural life.
To a great extent, the Commission services based this report on an external assessment conducted by a company which, by virtue of its network covering all the participant countries, seemed to me to be able to make an objective analysis of the way this year was perceived by operators in our various countries.
It was taken up by the G8 ministers who last year in Cologne adopted a charter on the subject, inspired to a great extent by the debates which took place within the fifteen Member States in the course of this European Year of Lifelong Learning.
The Commission will continue the debate on lifelong education and training with you, with this House, in that context.
I am entirely prepared to make room for the question of lifelong education and training and, in general, educational matters, in Structural Fund programmes.
The people in his party, the PDS, are clearly determined not to learn anything new for the rest of their lives.
Mr President, lifelong learning must be a responsibility not only of the European Commission and the European institutions but also, and especially, of the Member States.
Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece is in favour of a state lifelong learning system, since it will give workers the chance to improve their knowledge and professional skills as well as their contribution to society as a whole and their standard of living.
This fundamental fact has fuelled debates at the European Council meetings in Lisbon and Feira.
They should also speedily implement action programmes and specific measures in the context of a lifelong education and training strategy.
