Turkey's 2007 progress report (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Turkey's 2007 progress report.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, since the last report on Turkey there have been a number of positive developments in that country.
Prime Minister Erdoğan has promised that 2008 will be the year of reforms and we shall be pleased to hold him to that.
A judicial system in a state under the rule of law should be independent but also impartial.
To me, that means reaching agreement on modernisation with all political parties, ethnic and religious minorities and social partners.
To summarise, Mr President, there is still a great deal to be done on the position of religious minorities in Turkey, the position of the Kurds and other minorities, the socio-economic development of the regions, improvements in the position of women, the dialogue between the Turkish Government and social partners, in which I particularly call attention to the trade union movement which is often under pressure, constructive cooperation in a solution to the Cyprus question and good neighbourliness in the region.
Mr President, I stress again that, in my opinion, only a society that allows itself to be led by respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and that is based on democracy, the rule of law and a socially orientated market economy can develop into a peaceful, stable and prosperous society.
President-in-Office. - (SL) To begin with I should like to express my gratitude for the report prepared by Mrs Ria Oomen-Ruijten, which in the opinion of the Council represents an important contribution to the debate regarding Turkey's accession process.
As regards the reforms in Turkey, we agree with the European Parliament's assessment that this year is decisive for this process, and we believe that Turkey should not miss this opportunity.
In connection with the freedom of expression, we welcome the amendment of Article 301 of the Penal Code.
In this respect it is necessary to strengthen civilian democratic control over the military, and to additionally strengthen the Parliament's control over defence spending.
As it you all know, the European Union evaluates Turkey's progress on the basis of its fulfilment of the Copenhagen political criteria and its compliance with the provisions of the negotiations framework for Turkey.
However, amongst the important aspects of progress in the accession negotiations are, without any doubt, endeavours towards good relations with neighbours and a peaceful resolution of disputes, in line with the constitutional document of the United Nations.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, let me first thank Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and the Foreign Affairs Committee for a very solid, firm and balanced report.
Moreover, the recent revision of the infamous Article 301 is a step forward.
What ultimately counts, however, is its proper implementation to guarantee the freedom of expression for everybody in Turkey.
All in all, a renewed focus on EU-related reforms is absolutely essential, which should also assist in overcoming the current political crisis.
The very existence of our Union rests on the basic values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights that we share among ourselves.
The Commission's role in the accession process can be described as 'the friend who tells the truth' - even if the truth is sometimes unwelcome in parts of the EU or in Turkey.
Madam President, let me first congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on her report and also her cooperation throughout this time.
Secondly, it must show complete and absolute respect for human rights and the rights of minorities.
Fourthly, Turkey must maintain good neighbourly relations in general, and with Greece in particular.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for the very fruitful and constructive cooperation.
In both cases, we want to make it very clear that these bans would be completely unacceptable to us and would constitute major impediments to Turkey's progress towards becoming a member of the European Union.
We therefore call unequivocally on all the moderate forces in Turkey to do their utmost to ensure that these two parties can continue to operate in Turkey's political landscape.
It is a goal which, in the European Union, we must do our utmost to achieve, in communication with our citizens.
However, Turkey too must do its utmost, by carrying out the reforms that are required. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I too would like to start by expressing warm thanks to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for the good cooperation, which was just as constructive this time as it was last autumn.
We also believe that the reforms must be pursued despite the major domestic political crisis.
The headscarf debate is also an issue of freedom of religion and freedom of opinion, but it must not be used for the cultural oppression of women who espouse secular attitudes.
The so-called reform of Article 301 is unsatisfactory from our perspective.
Nonetheless, we expect an accession candidate to show a European spirit when the security of European personnel in missions such as EUPOL and EULEX is at stake.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Ladies and gentlemen, as you have probably seen, in the last couple of weeks the Commissioner and I have come in for a great deal of criticism from certain circles in Turkey.
What I also do not understand is that the Council of Europe recommendations on the prohibition of political parties were so easily passed over, because it is clear that the case against the AKP in no way meets the criteria.
What I do not understand is why it was impossible for the authorities to allow the trade unions to demonstrate peacefully in Istanbul on 1 May, even in Taksim Square, such a symbolic place since 1977.
I firmly believe that, if that happens, we in Turkey and the European Union will in the end understand each other better.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) This very good report will not be well received in Ankara.
The political dimension of such a framework could well transcend the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The alternative package would not cause tensions such as those currently experienced in Ankara and in European capitals regarding the debate about Turkey becoming a full member of the European Union.
The Kurdish issue cannot be reduced solely to a social matter.
I am talking about Belgium, where Vlaams Blok, the largest Flemish party, was actually banned in 2005.
Having said that, I am astounded, Madam President, that the Council and the Commission are satisfied with the cosmetic changes to the notorious Article 301 in the Turkish Penal Code, which will still put just as many restrictions on freedom of expression.
If the European Union approves cosmetic improvements like this, it loses all credibility and the whole of the rest of the negotiating process becomes a grotesque farce. (DE) Madam President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Oomen-Ruijten very warmly.
In this reform process, we have made a proposal on Article 301, but I would remind you that former Prime Minister Tansu Çiller pledged reform in 1995, 13 years ago, before we endorsed the Customs Union, and nothing has happened.
This report is open and honest about that and we should support it. (NL) I also want to pay tribute to the rapporteur and the way in which she has drawn up this report.
Talking of reforms, I should also like to draw attention to Article 301 of the Penal Code, which is used to restrict freedom of expression in Turkey in a number of ways.
Our own message must be absolutely clear: if Turkey's Supreme Court continues to close political parties, they will kill off all prospects of Turkish membership of the Union. (DE) Madam President, I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her fair cooperation and very balanced report.
The report highlights the critical points being identified by the people in Turkey themselves: for example, the solution to the Kurdish problem on a consensus basis while safeguarding the rights of all ethnic groups in Turkey, the headscarf problem in Turkey, which includes respecting the interests of those who do not wish to wear the headscarf, and the issue of religious freedom which must apply to everyone in Turkey, including Alevites, Christians and the Ecumenical Patriarch of Istanbul, for example.
The European Union can also do more.
Admittedly, some efforts have been made, but corruption is a genuine blight and the Cyprus issue remains unresolved, not to mention the fact that there is a lot of work to do in relations with the Armenians.
Despite our concerns about the court proceedings now in progress on the question of the ruling party and the superficial change to Article 301 of the Criminal Code, we believe that Turkey has made some progress.
Today, as we watch progress being made thanks to the efforts of the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities following the agreement of 21 March between the leaders of the two sides in Cyprus, Turkey must not stand in the way. (NL) The Republic of Turkey is disqualifying itself from membership of the European Union.
In addition to Turkey's relations with the European Union, I should also like to refer to its relations with Armenia.
I am glad the motion for a European Parliament resolution calls on the Turkish Government to end its economic blockade of Armenia.
It is regrettable, however, that the document makes no reference to the Armenian genocide. (FR) Madam President, the report by our colleague Ria Oomen-Ruijten is thorough, honest and courageous at a very testing time for Turkey, and I wish to congratulate her on this.
Let us be under no illusions, let us refrain from telling the Turks anything and everything, and having them believe we are willing either to accept their accession without actually meeting the Copenhagen criteria, or reject it because of them, when what is actually at stake is us, and what we want our European project to be.
One does remain, however, and that is the disagreement on Amendment 14 concerning reproductive health.
In this situation it is important to reiterate that the accession process is an open-ended process, but the common goal is EU membership.
EU principles are incompatible with a 'deep state' or the military hindering the government from responding to its new challenges: on Cyprus, to demonstrate, now that negotiations have resumed, that Ankara has the political will to reach a settlement based on the principles on which the EU is founded, without the presence of Turkish troops on the island or the right of unilateral military intervention; on human rights and the freedom of expression in Article 301; on respect for the rights of non-Muslim religious minorities and the Orthodox Ecumenical Patriarch; on the obligations of Turkey relating to the Ankara Protocol; on issues like crimes of passion against women and the conspiracy of silence that exists on this issue; on the issue of the Armenian genocide and the blocking of Armenia and so forth.
These are the challenges Turkey faces if it wants to prove that it is a candidate country destined to become a member of the European Union. (EL) Madam President, Turkey has a place in the European family and our only aim should be full accession.
The Union must honour its commitments.
Turkey, in turn, must comply with the Copenhagen criteria and the obligations it has undertaken.
However, very little progress has been achieved in the field of human rights in the past year.
The repeal of the notorious Article 301 and of all the provisions that make a mockery of the freedom of expression remains the ultimate aim.
It cites the progress made, but also highlights reforms outstanding.
We are all pleased that the Turkish authorities consider 2008 to be the year of reforms, because we know that accession negotiations make them necessary.
Thus the report emphasises our firm wish that no incidents should seriously disrupt democratic political life in Turkey.
I think the answer to this question is quite obvious, and that underlines that we must of course keep the pressure on regarding all the changes that need to be made in Turkey with regard to freedom of expression, reform of the Article 301 paragraph, freedom of religion, equal rights for women and men, not only in legislation but also in reality, and of course the need for a solution to the Cyprus issue and a number of other issues.
The reform process in Turkey must therefore be supported and it is important for us to have a democratic Turkey based on the rule of law.
If I look at what is happening with Article 301 of the Penal Code, freedom of religion and the Law on Foundations, minority rights and so forth, it is clear that the Erdoğan government is trying to make progress, but it has always stopped short of what is required because quite obviously, at a domestic level, the limits of Turkey's reform capacity have been reached.
The goal of achieving a stable and prosperous democracy in Turkey is not only in Turkey's own interests, but is also an important strategic interest of the EU.
In this House, we have decided by a majority that, with Turkey, we ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has produced a very balanced and objective report on Turkey which is highly commendable.
There is a remarkable consensus among the neighbouring member countries that there should be a clear perspective for EU membership of Turkey.
We the neighbouring countries should encourage Turkey and make every effort to enhance the bilateral and trilateral transborder cooperation and reach a new quality of good neighbourly relations.
Accession is one option, but it is not a foregone conclusion. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since Turkey forms part of European history, since Turkey is a component of European culture, since Turkey constitutes a considerable economic and demographic opportunity for the EU, this position in favour of accession means that I can demand even more: more with respect to democratic principles, more with respect to secularity and more with respect to human rights.
Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote for Amendment 23, to drive home to the authorities ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) The mentality of the Turks has changed little since the times of Kemal Atatürk.
As stated by the report, it is also essential that the Turkish Government pursues its reforms, with respect for pluralism and diversity in a democratic and secular Turkey, and that all citizens should be able to develop their cultural identity within the democratic Turkish state.
The debate that has just been concluded, and above all the report prepared by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, have confirmed what the Council is also aware of: every reform process is difficult.
This is evident from the trials that have been mentioned numerous times, which have been mentioned in the report and which the Council too has considered, from trials such as the proceedings against political parties, from the debate on ladies' head-scarves, on the status of women in general, on religious freedom, and on freedom of expression, among other things.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I want to thank the rapporteur and the Members for a very serious and responsible debate at a very critical time for EU-Turkey relations.
I share your concern in compromise Amendment 32 about the excessive use of force by Turkish police against demonstrators at this year's May Day rally in Istanbul.
The third and final message is that the European Parliament is clearly very concerned about the closure case.
The best medicine to truly revitalise Turkey's EU accession process is to ensure that the reforms move forward, that a genuine political dialogue is started in Turkey and that both democracy and secularism are respected.
The vote will take place today.
However, pursuing EU membership can only be reliable if the candidate country recognizes and conducts normal relations with each and every EU Member State.
Fully meeting the Copenhagen criteria is continuously a key condition for EU membership.
In Romania just now we are preparing for local authority elections.
the unconditional repeal of Article 301 of the Penal Code and all other articles which curtail freedom of thought and freedom of opinion; 4.
