Portugal is at the centre of the European Union.
It is a great pleasure to invite the President-in-Office of the European Council, Prime Minister José Sócrates, to take the floor.
However, when we restored democracy in our country, in 1974, after 48 years under an authoritarian regime, our principal objective was to join the European Communities, as they were known at the time.
The construction of Europe is important for the European economy, for the promotion of European values and for European citizens.
Mr President, honourable Members, I think you will agree with me that the success of a Presidency always depends on the clarity of its programme.
I would also like to acknowledge with gratitude the clear positions adopted by Parliament in the Resolution it adopted on the basis of the Barón Crespo-Brok report, which led to an agreement which was reached between the Member States that preserved the core objectives of the Constitutional Treaty and which incorporated the signals given by the French and Dutch referendums.
The progress that was made at the last Europe Council was only possible as a result of the impetus it was given by the European Parliament, which has always maintained a strong, consistent and constructive position in that respect, and never resigned itself to the deadlock at the time.
The agreement reached at the 21 and 22 June European Council took the form of a clear and precise mandate, as Portugal has always considered necessary.
The fact is that that objective is now within our reach.
We therefore approach that task with confidence and should now complete it by transforming the mandate into a new Treaty.
This is why I decided to open the Intergovernmental Conference on 23 July, separately from the General Affairs and External Relations Council.
The informal meeting of Foreign Ministers on 7 and 8 September will be used to take stock of how this is progressing.
We intend to play an active role in ensuring that agreement on the Treaty can be reached during the informal European Council in Lisbon on 18 and 19 October.
That is our objective and I think you will agree with me that this timetable is closest to the spirit and desire of all the European institutions and also the one that will best serve the interests of the Union.
Ten years after the launch of the 'European Employment Strategy', it seems essential to us to encourage a debate on the best ways of coordinating employment policies, with a view to boosting the creation of sustainable jobs in a context of global competition.
The European social model, with its well-known diversity, requires us to reflect together on the sustainability of pension and retirement systems, and also to identify the reforms that are necessary in the labour markets and systems of protection against social risks.
In that context, the aim of our debate on so-called 'flexicurity' should be to find integrated and balanced solutions, which should be reflected in general shared principles at European level that take account of the diverse social conditions in the various Member States.
In that context, one of the Presidency's priorities will be to strengthen police and judicial cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime.
If there is a good example of that firmness it was provided last week by the British Government, to which I should like to pass on a message of solidarity from all the countries in the Union.
The fight against terrorism must therefore remain a common objective for all the Member States, because only European cooperation will make it possible to prevent, protect ourselves against and combat terrorism.
This is why the Union's security policy is also essential in order to preserve the open and tolerant nature of European societies.
It is therefore a source of pride for me to say that it was Portugal that suggested, and it was also a Portuguese company that designed SIS-ONE4ALL, the technological solution whereby the new Member States could become full members of the Schengen area and whereby borders with those countries are to disappear at the end of the Portuguese Presidency.
We shall give special attention to this issue during our Presidency.
In the second half of 2007, there are decisions on delicate world issues that cannot be put off - the future of Kosovo, the nuclear dossier on Iran, the humanitarian crisis in Darfur.
I should like to draw your attention to three initiatives with which we are closely linked and which deserve special emphasis: the EU-Brazil Summit, which has already taken place, the EU-Africa Summit and Euro-Med meetings.
In this first week of the Presidency, we have already held the Summit with Brazil with the aim of moving relations to a higher level of mutual understanding and close cooperation, at all levels.
Closer ties with Brazil will also bring practical results in terms of our response to global challenges.
Last week's summit with President Lula has also made it possible to keep open a window of opportunity, which we must now make the most of in the Doha Round negotiations, and we shall do everything possible to support the European Commission in that context.
I am among those who take the view that the Doha Round negotiations represent an important factor in regulating globalisation and that the conclusion of the negotiations will be highly positive.
This should continue to be a priority for the European institutions.
Portugal is in a particularly good position to take on this responsibility and is very much counting on the African Union and all European and African countries to ensure that this Summit offers a chance to revive dialogue and cooperation on matters of the greatest common interest.
We shall therefore take on the task of defining a new strategic partnership between the European Union and Africa aimed at sustainable development, ensuring peace, fighting endemic diseases and maintaining a balanced partnership in the management of migratory flows, to our mutual benefit.
I am aware that we are holding the Presidency at a time when the international situation is extremely delicate and that we have been ambitious in the definition of our own objectives.
I would now like to invite the President of the Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, to address the House.
The programme outlined for the Portuguese Presidency is ambitious and demanding, and the Intergovernmental Conference will naturally occupy a prominent place, particularly until the European Council meeting in October, but the Portuguese Presidency involves more than the very important issue of the Treaty.
As I have already stated in this House, the IGC about to begin will be of a very different kind from its predecessors.
Thanks to the work that has already been done, to the efforts, in particular of the German Presidency, which I would also like to commend, and to the fact that we have been able to make such clear progress, we can say that the degree of detail in this mandate is unprecedented.
I want to make the position of the Commission clear: we fully support the mandate and consider that the issue does not need to be discussed again.
It is also true that, from the Commission's point of view, the mandate is neither ideal nor perfect.
Nobody finds the mandate absolutely ideal, and that is how the European project works and has always worked.
Since 1957, our integration project has always moved forward by means of political compromise and not with ideal solutions.
It will begin on 23 July and, if all goes well, and we shall do everything in our power to ensure that it does, it may be concluded at the informal European Council in October.
Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, as we have already mentioned, the Portuguese Presidency goes beyond this vital matter of the Treaty and I am pleased to note that the Prime Minister and President of the Council intends to give particular attention to the Lisbon Strategy.
Our analyses prove that structural unemployment is also falling, which is fairly encouraging for Europe in the medium and long term.
Economic growth has also reached its highest levels since 2000, in a context of the higher potential and growth of the European economy, which leads us to believe that the recent growth is structural and not merely cyclical.
It is fair to say that this progress is largely due to the reforms inspired by the relaunched Lisbon Agenda for Growth and Employment.
The fact is that, by giving the various governments of the Member States a common reform framework, Europe is facilitating, supporting and strengthening precisely that movement to reform which, admittedly at varying speeds and with different scopes, all European governments have been implementing in one way or another.
This is the clearest example that the relaunched Lisbon Strategy is seeking to connect the different aspects, such as this key central aspect of the fight against climate change and energy security.
To achieve success in that area, we must do more in the field of innovation and that is why I am pleased to note that the Portuguese Presidency intends to include innovation as an essential topic at the December European Council.
Education, scientific research and innovation are essential elements of the European society we want to build in response to the most pressing concerns and challenges posed by this new century.
It should be emphasised, however, that for the success of that strategy we must warmly applaud the conclusions of the March European Council, which mark a turning point in the history of energy and the fight against climate change.
The creation of the European Institute of Technology, which is now so well received in the European Parliament, also constitutes an essential means of increasing European competitiveness by mobilising efforts on a European scale and better liaison between knowledge and innovation.
It has to do not only with trade, although trade is important in itself; it has to do with our multilateral vision.
We also need to make progress on this matter because it is not only an agenda for trade, it is an agenda for social development, an agenda that can strengthen our links with developing countries.
Yet there is still much to be done in relations between Europeans and Africans.
The African continent is undoubtedly a region that needs our support and commitment.
I may say that I have total confidence in the ability of Portugal - a country that has proved its commitment to Europe - of the Portuguese Government and authorities, and of all the country's political forces to work for Europe.
Your success will also depend on your cooperating with this Parliament.
The agreement reached on 21 and 22 June takes up the bulk of the advances contained in the previous text.
As far as our group - and in particular Mr Brok who will represent it - are concerned, the Intergovernmental Conference must be devoted to the legal finalisation of the revised treaties and should be concluded, as you wish, Mr Sócrates, in time for the European Council in the autumn.
Mr Sócrates, while a stronger Union for a better world motivates your work, you cannot overlook the security of our fellow citizens, and you have spoken of this matter at length this morning.
The victims of the terrorist attacks require us to stand united.
With regard to the other priorities such as the pursuit of the internal market and the consolidation of growth, our fellow citizens will only adhere to the European ideal if they can see that our social model, the free movement not only of persons, goods and capital, but also of services, and the promotion of education, training and innovation, are reflected in so many tangible improvements in their everyday lives.
Portugal dared to have the Lisbon Strategy.
Mr Sócrates, we hope, like you do, that progress will be made with Africa on migration issues and that our links with Brazil and the emerging countries will be strengthened.
We will support you when it comes to defending the values of peace and solidarity, courage and responsibility. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, almost exactly one year ago, on 1 July last year, there was an excellent football match that Portugal won in a penalty shootout after extra time.
You have said everything there is to say about the Intergovernmental Conference.
I have a comment to make to my fellow Member, Joseph Daul, at this point.
If we have greater economic growth - which we do, there are more jobs, and the reforms are taking effect, in fact thanks to Gerhard Schröder's Government, they are already having an impact in my country - if we have more jobs, then there is one thing we need above all: for that growth to be sustainable and to bring sustainable social stability.
Bono and Herbert Grönemeyer do not have the solution.
When I talk about climate protection, Prime Minister, I am very grateful for your strategy on Africa and Latin America, because climate protection will only be feasible if we involve Africa and Latin America.
I am very grateful for your position on Latin America too: the European Union's transatlantic relations go far beyond our relationship with the United States of America.
Mr President, today we have seen a Portuguese President-in-Office of the Council from the left and a former President-in-Office from the right working together for Europe.
The only European social model that matters to me is the one that preserves our prosperity by preparing our people for the future.
Boa sorte! (Applause) thar ceann an Ghrúpa UEN. - A Uachtaráin, is í an aidhm is mó a bheidh ag an Uachtaránacht seo a chinntiú go síneoidh ceannairí an Aontais Eorpaigh Conradh nua an Aontais Eorpaigh níos déanaí sa bhliain.
Beidh an Phortaingéil i mbun cruinnithe mullaigh go hidirnáisiúnta leis an mBrasaíl, le ceannairí na hAfraice agus le rialtais Mheiriceá, na Síne agus na hIndia.
The issue of renewable energies enables me, Mr President, to bring to your attention the issue of biofuel and relations with Brazil.
The fine words of Presidents Sócrates and Barroso have a specific and worrying implication, which I urge you to consider: the pressure exerted by the European Union on various African countries to make them sign the economic partnership agreement by the end of the year.
I would have liked to say many other things to you, Mr President, but I am unable to do so.
I hope that I will have other opportunities to do so. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Mr President, what we have just heard from the current President of the Council proves that this is going to be yet another wasted opportunity to put on the agenda some of the serious economic and social problems that need changes in policy and responses on the part of the Community institutions: for example, the unequal distribution of income, increased job insecurity and the poverty in which nearly 80 million people live, including increasing numbers of workers on low pay and fewer rights, old people with negligible pensions, and women and children being denied fundamental human rights.
Instead of proposing measures to respect the dignity of working people, and to alleviate the increasingly insecure situation of millions of workers, particularly women and young people - as several thousand people demanded at the demonstration organised by the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers on 5 July in Guimarães - what we are seeing is an emphasis on flexisecurity, which more than anything else means flexi-exploitation of the workers.
I fear, Mr President, that my fellow Member, Mr Watson, and many others like him are confusing two things: on the one hand, the necessary restoration of economic freedoms within a nation or within an area of which the parameters are almost the same in social protection terms and, on the other, a form of unbridled free-marketism that is reflected in downright unfair competition founded on social dumping.
I beg you: do not be a party to the disappearance of this most precious of assets of your nation and of all our nations - our national independence. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sócrates, we welcome the presentation of the guidelines that Portugal intends to follow over the coming months: naturally, we agree with the priority placed on the Intergovernmental Conference and can only offer our best wishes for you to achieve the aim of fully and faithfully turning the mandate into a new treaty.
Continue along that line and you will certainly have even stronger support after the informal meeting of the September European Council.
You also mentioned the Lisbon Strategy and the need for a new cycle.
The Summit with Brazil was an unqualified success, as I can confirm from President Lula's comments at the Conference of Presidents in Brussels.
The summit must be for debate and must not concentrate on that sole or principal topic.
There are many other issues to which you have referred, which must be the subject of our discussion and our dialogue and partnership with Africa.
I am on your side, and wish you every success. (PT) Mr President, listening to the President of the Council and the President of the Commission I felt immensely proud to be Portuguese.
It is the first time in this Parliament that European dialogue at the highest level has taken place in Portuguese.
It was, furthermore, the first European language to establish dialogue between East and West.
Today Portuguese is spoken by more than 220 million people spread across the five continents.
The Portuguese Presidency has just begun and it has already left an indelible mark.
I would like it to have a similar success with its other priorities, including the adoption of the new Treaty and the second EU-Africa Summit.
Dialogue with Africa is essential in the fight against illegal immigration and climate change.
With regard to the Treaty, the Council's mandate was, as the Prime Minister has told us, precise and clear: Nothing is open to debate.
A stronger Europe and a better world and, as Cardoso Pires might have said: E agora, José? (Over to you, José).
I hope that you too will be able to make a positive contribution in this matter. - (PL) Mr President, the priorities put forward by the President of the Council which started with the Portuguese presidency, are cause for great hope.
It is particularly important to strengthen transatlantic relations, not only in the war on international terrorism, but also in the fields of economic relations and research.
I only wish my own country, Scotland, could take its natural place as a constructive and enthusiastic partner Member State, but we are on our way, for we do have much in common.
I am also puzzled as to why he says nothing about certain other things.
The main issue here concerns the strategies in sectors that are within the purview of national states, for example the health sector.
This week, namely on 12 and 13 July, the minister of health will be holding a Round Table devoted to healthcare strategies in Europe, and I have the honour to be taking part in these round table discussions.
The meeting will be addressing issues such as discrepancies between the healthcare systems of Member States, legislation in the area of healthcare services, the problem of the rising incidence of cancer in the European Union and the mobility of patients and health professionals.
I and my colleagues, including Geoffrey Van Orden, have been underlining this matter for some time because I think it would be intolerable for our Union to welcome such a tyrant to Europe at a time when the suffering of his people is clear and should be uppermost in our minds.
We in the European Parliament, and many citizens - the majority of them - wanted the Constitutional Treaty, but we accepted the idea of seeking a solution through a mandate that is very clear, but I do not believe there has ever been a mandate with so many footnotes.
There is another significant problem, and that is how we are going to explain this to the citizens.
Having said that, Mr President, I want to see a Lisbon Treaty emerge from the Portuguese Presidency.
The first and most obvious one is the new constitutional treaty.
The second point is establishing a policy of European solidarity, such as the common European energy policy, which will prove that Europe has profoundly and irreversibly united since the historic year of 1989.
Another example of solidarity policy is the historic idea of free movement of people within the European Union, meaning the full opening of the Schengen area to new Member States.
These are the challenges of our times, which can and must galvanise the process of European integration. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Presidency does well to devote itself to the dialogue with Africa, in which what is perhaps needed more is the presence, for instance, of an army of small and medium-sized European businesses, to give birth to and shape a healthy economy in those regions, rather than an invasion of Chinese or multinationals that are not always inspired by humanitarian aims.
These are very worrying questions, and include geopolitical issues: for example, Mr President, we do not want Europe to end up bordering Iraq, Iran and other countries of that type. (CS) Mr President, the Portuguese presidency wishes to bring the European Treaty to completion and at the same time to address the challenges of global competition.
Mr President, I must again point out that the rejection of free economic competition as the driving force of the European economy constitutes a serious warning for all democratically aware citizens.
For this reason, we feel that we should support the Presidency in their clear commitment to the mandate in order to get the job done as soon as possible.
If this Treaty becomes reality, the European Parliament will have equal powers of codecision in 90-95% of cases.
Some things have been forgotten: in future, the European Council, on the basis of a qualified majority, will propose a candidate for election as Commission President to the European Parliament in the light of the results of the European election and after consultations with the European Parliament.
You, President-in-Office, have shown that the political significance of the Intergovernmental Conference is that it will keep to the whole mandate and nothing but the mandate.
The political significance lies in the clear determination to conclude the negotiations in October, and in seeking to convince all 27 Member States that this is the right way forward for Europe at this historic moment.
The game will continue.
It would also be good, President-in-Office, if you could persuade the new British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, not to bring up the rear in the ratification process, but rather to lead the way.
I talked with one of the immigrants from Nigeria, supposedly a country with abundant natural resources.
With tears in his eyes, this young 17 year-old kept insisting that he wanted to go to Europe.
This illustrates the fact that our policy designed to promote development in the African continent has so far failed.
They are all the same size, have the same type of engine and are in a shocking and disgraceful state.
True, we need to implement a genuine policy of cooperation with the countries of origin, which must be based on respect for fundamental rights, but it is also crucial that we open up legal immigration channels at European level, and we await a constructive debate with the Presidency on the definition of the common rights of non-EU nationals working legally in Europe.
Furthermore, we are relying on the Portuguese Presidency to encourage the Council to reach an agreement on the 'return' Directive that respects the right of asylum and the principle of non-refoulement. (Applause) (PT) Mr President, the European Presidency that began a few days ago is facing challenges that call for negotiating ability, political will and strategic vision.
Making the employment system more flexible is not the only answer, nor is it the only way to achieve the economic sustainability that we advocate.
There is, moreover, an increasing need for a new partnership for the Mediterranean and the Portuguese Presidency is in a good position to promote a revival of that strategic dialogue for the European Union.
Prime Minister, we wish you good luck and the greatest success in the next six months.
It is very important to have these talks with the Russians on more transparent energy relations, on the problems in our shared neighbourhood, but also to be able to restart the human rights dialogue, the democracy debate between Russia and the European Union, but also to be able to further develop our multilateral agenda, whether it concerns Iran, the future of the United Nations system, Kyoto and so on.
Only solidarity will allow us to act effectively in our relations with Russia.
Any lack of consistency will only be interpreted as weakness by our eastern partner.
There are many issues that need to be addressed: the unresolved dispute about Polish food exports to Russia, and the need to conduct a policy of energy solidarity to prevent Moscow from putting pressure on individual Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by thanking you for all your comments in this debate, and your criticisms of my speech and of the Presidency's plans.
I would like everyone to know that those comments and criticisms are very helpful to me in the tasks I have to perform as President of the Council.
It has not been difficult, furthermore, to identify those priorities, because we are all aware of one very simple fact: what Europe expects - what the European economy, European society and the world expect - is that this time Europe will resolve its institutional crisis once and for all, because for the last two years the idea on which we have been reflecting was one that everyone has seen as an institutional crisis that Europe has been incapable of overcoming.
The final consensus, the agreement, the mutual commitment we are reaching is such a clear and precise commitment that nobody expects us to get bogged down in interminable discussions, especially given that discussions are conducted behind closed doors.
I have naturally addressed the issue of the mandate and have stated that, if there is one thing the Presidency does not have, it is a mandate to reopen or alter the mandate it has received.
No one expects that and I am sure all the Member States in attendance that night and that made a commitment to a firm agreement are fully aware of what that would mean in terms of discrediting the institutions and Europe itself.
I would also like to state the obvious: that this Union depends on everyone, and everyone is necessary.
I am well aware of the task facing the Presidency, which is to make it possible to reach an agreement between the 27; not the 26, the 25 or the 24, but the 27.
European foreign policy has become richer as a result of the agreement reached at the summit with Brazil.
Europe has to decide whether it wants to move forward or stay as it is, and we have already been in the latter position for seven years.
The European Council has already decided to hold a Summit, and at the last three meetings it was declared that the summit should be held this year, during the Portuguese Presidency.
For a start, I consider that Europe cannot go on paying the price for not having a structured, institutional and strategic dialogue with Africa.
We in Europe are paying the price, but the Africans are also paying the price, and there are people whose lives are the worse because we do not have that dialogue with Africa.
As you know, Portugal is one of the countries that has the best relations with the North African countries, including Libya, and we have been keeping a close eye on the matter.
Firstly, with regard to climate change, I should just like to say that I have been Minister for the Environment, I have spent a term of office as Minister for the Environment, and I remember the difficulty we had at the time, in 2000, talking about climate change.
The situation is now totally different and I believe we have all realised that the operational synthesis between innovation and energy is climate change.
There is a great desire in various sectors for action to be taken quickly, but I think, as you must all agree, that the decisions we took at the last spring European Council were absolutely essential to give Europe credibility in that field and to put Europe in a political position to lead, to be in the front line, to provide a political response to this global problem.
I think the only way we can have an immigration policy commensurate with the problem and also compatible with our values is to define a policy constructed on three pillars.
I have said several times before that I was born in 1957, the Year of Europe, and elected to Parliament a year after we came into Europe.
The plan guides us in our actions and, if unforeseen and unexpected events occur, we shall be here, armed with what is important for a politician: the set of values, principles and guidelines that have always guided us in the construction of a stronger Europe in the service of a better world.
Thank you, Mr President.
The European Parliament will be at your side making sure you succeed.
If you succeed, the European Union will succeed.
President of the Commission. (PT) Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, I also should first of all like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the Bulgarian nurses and their families, and also with the Palestinian doctor, following the disturbing news we have received.
In particular, I would like to assure the Bulgarian nurses and their families that the European Commission, in conjunction with the President of the Council and the Member States, will do everything possible to safeguard their right to life and freedom.
Prime Minister, the debate has clearly demonstrated that Parliament supports the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council.
It should unite political forces that have that common objective of making a stronger Europe, a Europe that responds to the aspirations of its citizens.
As previous speakers have mentioned, immigration issues are crucial from a human point of view - they are human dramas that we have to deal with.
Only with proper independence from external suppliers will we be able to ensure that Europe has a leading role in the world economy in the long term, as well as a stronger position on the geopolitical stage, and is not subject to external threats.
in writing. - (FR) The Portuguese Presidency must focus on the priority objective of the signing by the 27 of a new institutional treaty, in October, in Lisbon, all the more so because the mandate entrusted to the Intergovernmental Conference by the last European Council is clear and precise.
The launch of a new round of the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment is an opportunity to give the social dimension the importance and visibility that it deserves, not least through the improved coordination of employment policies and through the development of 'flexicurity', with the aim of reconciling our fellow citizens with Europe and its reformed economic model.
