EC-USA air transport agreement (debate) The next item is the report by Mr El Khadraoui, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a decision of the Council and the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting with the Council, on the conclusion of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other hand [8044/3/07 - - C6-0210/2007 -.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr El Khadraoui, Parliament played a major political role in helping us sign the first EU-US air transport agreement on 30 April in Washington.
By backing the agreement on 14 March, even before the Committee on Transport and Tourism had made its announcement, Parliament played an extremely decisive role in modernising the arrangements regulating transatlantic aviation and offering new possibilities to European citizens.
As you are aware, the EU and its European neighbours, 42 countries, were compelled to voice their reserves concerning the resolution on CO2 emissions trading, for we are in opposition with respect to the US and the rest of the world.
First, the agreement puts an end to the legal uncertainty created since the judgments of the Court of Justice in 2002, which pronounced that the existing bilateral open skies agreement contains elements which are unlawful and which must be amended.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, this Parliament and in particular my group, the PPE-DE, will vote for this agreement today with a large majority, because we ultimately achieved a good interim result.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, first of all I would like to make an apology to you, to the Vice-President of the Commission and to honourable Members, because after I have made my speech I will have to leave the Chamber to do an interview.
I wish everybody well in their efforts, and the PSE Group will vote in favour.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I am substituting for my colleague, Ms in 't Veld.
The European Parliament has expressed itself very forcefully on the fact that it has not played the major role that it would have wanted in that agreement.
The data under the PNR Agreement will be retained for 15 years, which, I put to you, is excessive and which this report says we do not want.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, this was not the first time that you faced a negotiating partner who is very difficult, to put it mildly, because based on experience, he assumes from the outset that Europe will always give in, in every instance.
This policy is wholly in the interests of capital.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, reciprocity is an important value in interpersonal relations and all the more so in relations between states, even commercial ones.
They should not be waiting for the second stage; they should be using the first stage now, so that when we enter the second stage of the negotiations we can benefit from initial experience and identify the areas where there are still deficits as regards our European companies' rights in the US market.
You will obviously understand that this is stressful, at least for Greeks, who, in any case, are part of Europe.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, I wish to thank all the Members who have spoken.
The Commission has already begun a debate with the Member States in relation to the special negotiation committee to define negotiation strategy for the second stage.
I wish to answer Mrs Ludford by saying that the PNR is not part of the aviation agreement.
The PNR issue, however, must be reviewed in context, and Mr Frattini is aware of your concerns on that score.
