This report, which the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted unanimously, devotes 13 recitals and 72 paragraphs to these matters.
The report calls on the Commission to create a global strategy for mountain regions and hill and mountain farming.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) Farming in mountain areas is a crucial factor in both local economic development and environmental protection (e.g.
in writing. - (PL) The European Parliament report on the situation and outlook for hill and mountain farming is right to oblige the European Commission to present a strategy for hill and mountain areas within six months.
The European Parliament proposal relating to the everyday problems of the people living in the Polish Podhale region deserves our support.
in writing. - In my opinion, people in small and isolated rural communities, and especially in mountainous areas, are disadvantaged and confronted with constraints and difficulties in everyday life.
in writing. - (FR) The Ebner report on the situation and outlook for hill and mountain farming highlights the features and needs of these regions, which make up 40% of the territory of Europe.
A strategy of that kind will enable these regions to meet the challenges of competitiveness and sustainable development, for they are not just potential sources of economic growth but also the guardians of traditions that produce quality and contribute to preserving our landscapes. , in writing. - (RO) Mountain regions constitute a major part of the European Union; and what is more, traditions, culture and language are preserved much better in these areas compared to any other regions in the 27 Member States.
in writing. - (RO) Mountains cover one third of the area of the country that I represent, Romania, and the inhabitants of mountain areas are disadvantaged compared to other people living in rural areas.
The proposals contained in the Ebner report are welcome and I strongly believe that a coherent EU strategy on mountain areas, which is essential and urgent, would contribute to a great extent to an improvement in living conditions in these areas.
Small enterprises and boarding houses are particularly important for boosting mountain areas.
