Management of deep-sea fish stocks (debate) The next item is the report by Rosa Migueléz Ramos, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the management of deep-sea fish stocks.
rapporteur. - (ES) The truth is that what Mr Stevenson has just said is a general feeling that we all share, because we have all been finding that we are speaking at these late hours for many years now.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, can I firstly congratulate Mrs Miguélez Ramos on the excellent work that she has done in compiling this report.
The science in relation to deep-sea stocks is not yet fully developed.
However, we do know that these species live at great depths - we have heard from 400 metres to over 2 000 metres and even deeper.
We know that they are slow maturing, not reaching breeding age sometimes until they are at least 25 years old, and they have a very low reproductive capacity.
Fundamentally, however, I think we must all bear in mind that when it comes to the sea bed - environments that are much more fragile than on the surface - we cannot repeat the mistakes made in the past.
I therefore do not think that this is the time to jeopardise certain fleets with regulations on discards which could ultimately result in inconsistencies with the general rules, which goes against the practice of better regulation to the benefit of the public. - (PL) Mr President, in view of the particular nature of stocks and the marine ecosystem, deep-sea fishing constitutes a unique micro-climate, a micro-world that most starkly reveals both the familiar assets of fisheries policy and its permanently apparent shortcomings.
The interesting report by Mrs Miguélez Ramos and the discussion it has initiated amount to a characteristic object lesson, a further justification for maintaining humility in the face of the mysteries of the deep - humility, may I add, that requires the necessary compensation at least in the form of research into the deepest European basins, the scope of which is regularly enlarged.
Three depth zones appear to be recognised here: up to 400 metres, 400 to 1 000 metres and deeper than 1 000 metres.
For example, some kind of mythical significance is being attributed to depths exceeding 1 000 metres without any fully convincing reasons being put forward for this.
The Data Collection Regulation will certainly help to correct this situation.
I agree that these species are much more vulnerable, and so we need to be extremely careful and cautious in the management of this fishery.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
in writing. - (RO) The continuous and rapid exhausting of deep-sea fish stocks and the insufficient measures of protection of deep-sea biodiversity require urgent actions in order to ensure the conservation and sustainable use of fish species.
Although the 2002 and 2004 recommendations of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) called attention to the fact that most species are below the biosafety levels, the European Union has not reduced its fishing efforts enough to ensure sustainable fishing.
