Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (CS) Madam President, in the debate on the CE marking yesterday I drew the attention of the Commission yet again to the fact that registration of the CE marking has still not been initiated, although it has been enshrined in European legislation for 16 years now and I asked for it in parliamentary interpellation three months ago.
The crisis goes too far back for it to be solved in the traditional way.
The international community, and above all the European Union, must force Israel and the Palestinians to reach an amicable settlement.
We voted in favour of deletion but regrettably the majority in this House was not in favour.
I believe my speaking time is now at an end. - (NL) Madam President, the merit of the Castex report is undoubtedly that it indicates the enormous demographic challenges with which Europe is faced.
in writing. (PL) Mrs Frassoni has prepared a good report.
As regards the report relating to the Commission's Annual report on monitoring the application of Community law, I am of the opinion that one of its major themes is the Commission's intention of improving working methods in cases of reported breaches of Community law in the Member States.
in writing. (PL) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Frassoni on monitoring the application of Community law (2005).
Their implementation is essential to improving the effectiveness of European Union policy on, for instance, European Fund actions and harmonisation of standards for products goods on the Community market.
Furthermore, the appeal to national parliaments contained in the motion for a resolution is very important.
in writing. - I welcome André Brie's proposal for regulation on the accreditation and market surveillance of products in the European Community.
The report attends to these points and I voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the European market seems totally incapable of defending itself against dumping from outside of Europe, I note with great satisfaction the first 'institutional' step towards new legislation and harmonisation of the EU market.
in writing. (PL) Mrs Schaldemose rightly points out that the decision in question, aimed at creating a broader and more rigorous system of Community control of the marketing of products, may have a significant impact on the conduct of international trade.
in writing. - Mrs Schaldemose's report calling for a common framework for the marketing of products is one that I welcome and have voted in favour of.
in writing. - (SK) As rapporteur on behalf of the PPE-DE Group for the draft report by Mrs Schaldemose on the common framework for the marketing of products, I would like to express my satisfaction with the results of the vote: the compromise achieved has already made it possible to finalise the legislative process at first reading.
Our decision to do so was based on clear information proving that products made in developing countries and wrongfully CE marked, that is bearing the CE logo that indicates that a product is in conformity with European legislation, keep turning up more and more often in the European database of dangerous consumer products (RAPEX).
In practice, the Member States will be prohibited from restricting the sale in their territory of products where these are manufactured and marketed in another Member State, even though they may not fully comply with the rules of the Member State of destination.
I am confident that the report sufficiently deals with these issues and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - We do not agree with the mutual recognition principle as a guarantor for advanced consumer, social or environmental rights.
in writing. - (DE) I am in favour of the Internal Market for Goods Package, because it is essential to have a common framework for the marketing of products abroad.
in writing. - (DE) The package on the marketing of products in Europe, to be voted on today, undoubtedly brings improvements for consumers.
The principle of mutual recognition was formulated by the Court of Justice almost 30 years ago and is now enshrined in legislation.
Better consumer protection is one very good reason to approve this package with enthusiasm.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - (SV) Unfortunately, once again the EU is using a humanitarian disaster to advance its position in the field of foreign policy.
Among other aspects: Once again, the resolution places the aggressor and aggressed, occupier and occupied on the same level, thereby ignoring the terrorism of the Israeli State; The resolution does not condemn the criminal embargo imposed by Israel on the Gaza Strip and its population nor does it denounce the connivance or silence of the United States of America or the European Union in this respect; The resolution says nothing about the deplorable statements made by Commissioner Frattini who is responsible for justice and home affairs and who stated that the EU would be prepared to 'take on board Israeli concerns and interests in a way that was not on our agenda in the first years of intifada'.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on Gaza and am pleased that Parliament has taken such a strong stance on lifting the blockade.
There are insufficient drugs available in hospitals to provide basic care; food assistance to part of the population only fulfils about two-thirds of daily requirements; the fishing industry (which employed about 10 000 people) is under severe stress, as boats are only allowed to operate close to the coast.
The EU must do everything possible to break the blockade, and Israel must recognise that it is not giving them long-term security.
in writing. - (DE) Let's be absolutely clear from the outset: the embargo by Israel is clearly a violation of international law and is completely unacceptable.
As a result of the embargo and the denial of access to drinking water and food, Israel is artificially creating a situation for the people in the Gaza Strip which is without parallel in terms of its inhumanity and lack of concern for human dignity.
The Palestinian side, for its part, should do its utmost to de-escalate the situation in order to facilitate the conclusion of an agreement by the end of 2008.
in writing. - While every effort must be made to find a solution to the situation in Gaza, this resolution at best will contribute nothing and at worst will have a negative impact.
Hamas is not a benevolent medieval king; it is a terrorist organisation largely responsible for the situation in Gaza.
in writing. - (EL) The Israeli authorities are perpetrating ever more criminal acts against the Palestinians.
in writing. - (FR) If, despite a certain amount of reluctance due to a totally unbalanced text, I eventually voted for it, this was because an oral amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party restored the truth to a certain extent as to the current situation in Gaza.
in writing. - The tone, and much of the content, of the Gaza Resolution, is skewed in an anti-Israeli fashion.
I therefore abstained in the vote.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - (PT) Not forgetting its previous positions on the definition of this UN body's operation, in which the attempts to guarantee its monitoring and organisation were obvious - we recall the EU's criticisms and pressure in relation to, for example, the way in which certain countries were elected to this body (regretting the 'clean slate' principle and defending the introduction of eligibility criteria), the 'Special Procedure' mechanism, the reinforcement of country mandates and the possibility of creating new mandates by simple majority, or even the terms of the 'Universal Periodic Review' - the European Parliament has adopted a resolution which, although heading along the same lines, is more moderate in the explanation of its true objectives.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have voted in favour of the report on the demographic future of Europe.
This requires more and better public services, with a guarantee of equal access for all.
in writing. - (SV) Large parts of Europe are facing demographic challenges.
However, these should be resolved by national measures, not by catch-all EU proposals which perhaps suit certain countries, but may be unsuitable in other Member States.
in writing. (PL) I fully support the report on the demographic future of Europe.
This will result in a significant increase in the burden on Member States' budgets.
The measures proposed by Mrs Castex to rectify the European birth rate are laughable because, like all Europeanists in power, our fellow Member does not want to renew the European population, but to replace it with immigrants from Africa and Asia.
This policy, advocated in France by Mr Attali and implemented by Mr Sarkozy, will bring a further 80 million immigrants to Europe by the year 2050, and will eventually lead to the disappearance of our peoples.
in writing. - (DE) I am in favour of a cohesion policy for the European Union's demographic development, as the structural shift in European society's age pyramid points to a worrying future.
In this context, I would particularly like to stress the rise in the European average old-age dependency ratio to 53% in 2050, which is due to the current abnormally low average birth rate in the EU of 1.5, and which not only leads to intergenerational conflicts and can thus be regarded as an obstacle to social cohesion, but could also weaken Europe's competitiveness in the world economy.
in writing. - (FR) The Castex report on the demographic future of Europe is appallingly trite, featuring all the clichés one might expect to find in surveys on the subject.
Mrs Castex forgets, among other aspects, to mention contraceptive methods which have been largely responsible for reducing the birth rate in Europe, where it stands at only 1.5 per woman, a far cry from renewal of the future generations.
in writing. (PL) Mrs Castex rightly points out that in view of the fact that the European average old-age dependency ratio (the number of persons aged 65 or over divided by the number aged between 14 and 65) will rise from 25% in 2004 to 53% in 2050, the European Union risks losing its competitive edge and suffering a fall in economic growth.
in writing. - We voted against this report because the solutions it proposes as regards the demographic crisis are counter-productive.
in writing. - (FR) Rarely have I taken such pleasure in voting on a resolution, since it clearly shows that women and elderly people have a major role to play in the challenge of our demographic future.
This, unfortunately, was the case with the 1995 resolution on the distribution of pension entitlements in the event of divorce and the resolution on the situation of spouses helping with SMEs, aimed at rectifying the many discriminations still suffered by women, and the terrible plight of far too many men in relation to paternity leave.
in writing. - I welcome Françoise Castex's recommendations regarding Europe's demographic future.
The report deals with these issues and I voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. - (DE) Mass immigration and ageing are putting the stock of indigenous population at risk.
in writing. - (SK) The EU must respond to serious demographic changes if it wants to preserve its demographic and territorial balance.
The situation is alarming.
in writing. - (PT) The renewal of the European population is a crucial factor in ensuring a balance between the youngest and oldest and in increasing the working-age population.
The fundamental problem with Mrs Castex's report is not therefore the intention, but that most of what is discussed relates to policies that should be conducted by the Member States - sometimes at municipal level.
I therefore voted in favour of amendments which stressed the subsidiarity principle and abstained in the final vote.
in writing. (PL) We have adopted an important report on the demographic future of Europe.
Consideration should also be given to the migratory flows from rural to urban areas, and to the hidden human capital in rural areas, notably in the less developed countries.
in writing. - (GA) I do not agree with everything that is written in Mr Guellec's Report, but nevertheless, I welcome the report and I voted in its favour.
in writing. - I welcome Ambroise Guellec's report on the Commission's fourth report on economic and social cohesion.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion has been one of the mainstays of Community policy in the past, the expression of a principle of solidarity which marked out and accompanied economic growth in the European Union.
Cohesion plays an even more important role in the Europe of 27, with its pronounced economic and social disparities.
The first effects of EU economic aid are beginning to be seen in some of the regions where development is lagging behind, even though it will only be possible to assess economic convergence on a longer-term basis owing to a very low initial GDP per capita.
While voting in favour of the report, I would call upon the Commission and national governments to devise a joint approach for tackling these issues in an appropriately dynamic and cooperative manner.
in writing. - (EL) The aim of economic and social cohesion is to create a delusion among workers so that the gap in social and regional disparities can be narrowed, and the living standards of workers in countries and regions that diverge from the Community average can be raised.
in writing. - (PT) The cohesion policy is one of the distinctive trade marks of the European Union, one of its major successes and also one of the main attractions of our community.
However, not everything has been successful in this area.
in writing. - (GA) I don't agree with everything written in Gisela Kallenbach's Report, but despite that, I welcome it and voted for it.
in writing. - (PT) This report on the follow-up of the Territorial Agenda and the Leipzig Charter contains aspects which we consider important.
in writing. - Gisela Kallenbach's report 'Follow-up of the Territorial Agenda and the Leipzig Charter' is a report that I voted in favour of.
