Situation in Guinea (debate) The next item is the Council statement on the situation in Guinea.
On Monday, 28 September, more than 100 people were killed in Conakry, Guinea, when members of the Guinean security forces shot into crowds of demonstrators.
The number of injured people is said to be at least 1 200, and eye witnesses have reported that soldiers raped women on the streets of Conakry.
The European Union immediately and forcefully condemned these brutal and shocking events.
The African Union condemned the events and decided to prepare a report on possible measures to be taken.
Parliament, as you know, condemned the unconstitutional change of power, and in its resolution of 15 January 2009, called for respect for human rights and a rapid return to constitutional order.
The EU decided to open consultations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, and EU development aid - apart from humanitarian aid and support for democratic transition - was frozen.
The African Union and ECOWAS decided to suspend Guinea until it established a democratically elected parliament or government.
First of all, we should maintain and reinforce political pressure on the regime in Conakry, notably in the context of the international group.
The upcoming EU-African Ministerial Troika in Addis Ababa and the meeting on Guinea on 12 October in Abuja will be important in this respect.
We will spare no efforts to help the people of Guinea in this critical moment and we are determined to support a return to civilian, constitutional and democratic government through free and transparent elections.
We encourage all stakeholders in Guinea to refrain from violence and to make a peaceful and democratic transition.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, the crisis in Guinea is, in my opinion, symptomatic of a wider problem which occurs, unfortunately, in many African countries.
With Mrs Malmström, I think the mission of the President of Burkina Faso is a very good thing, and I wish him success.
Indeed, as you know, on 28 September 2009, troops under the Guinean Government carried out the bloody repression of a peaceful demonstration uniting all of the opposition parties, causing 157 deaths and injuring more than a thousand people, some of whom suffered particularly vile instances of rape and mutilation.
The European Union, its Member States and its institutions had already condemned Moussa Dadis Camara's coup d'état on 28 December 2008.
As is procedure, the Council then applied Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement to establish a road map with the Guinean authorities, to be used as a framework for democratic transition.
This list of measures included, in particular, the organisation of free and transparent elections within a year and the commitment that members of the CNDD, notably Moussa Dadis Camara, would not stand in these elections.
Captain Camara's decision to postpone the organisation of elections until spring 2010 and his refusal to raise the issue of whether he would stand for the Guinean Presidency were a sign of what was to come, with the current escalation.
Thus, the demonstration that was bloodily repressed on 28 September was aimed precisely at calling on the junta to honour its commitments.
With regard to Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, what measures does the Council intend to take against the Guinean junta?
The news reaching us from Guinea is alarming.
We must not wait for a new Rwanda before we react; human rights must be defended in Africa just as they must be defended everywhere else in the world. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Malmström described the situation in Guinea perfectly.
Following the deaths of 157 people in street clashes, and the attempts of Moussa Dadis Camara to cover this up, members of the opposition turned to the international community in the hope of receiving help and greater protection.
On 5 October, however, Captain Camara opposed the presence of a foreign peacekeeping force in the country, rejecting any kind of foreign interference in internal affairs.
Therefore, by calling upon you, my fellow Members and representatives of the institutions, I hope that we can reach unanimous agreement - and I stress unanimous - to adopt immediate measures enabling the people of Guinea to re-establish fundamental and inalienable rights, such as democracy and freedom, in their country.
Naturally, I also wish to personally express my support for all the families affected by these tragic events. (SV) Mr President, Mrs Malmström, ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the Committee on Fisheries and I visited Guinea myself last December, so I have followed this matter very closely.
First of all, I find it remarkable that the European Union is maintaining its fisheries agreement with Guinea, as the agreement was entered into with the previous regime two weeks before the coup.
I believe, too, that the international pressure exerted in connection with this must be very clear.
But it is extremely important to do it in a credible way and, in order to do so, we have to defend human rights within our borders as well, within the European Union system.
As I have mentioned to you several times during the last three months, Mrs Kinga Göncz, a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs in this Parliament, used to be a member of a government which we call in Hungary the 'eye-shooter' government, who were shooting at people on the streets of Budapest on 23 October 2006.
We have also, as I said, opened consultations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, and we have frozen all EU development aid, apart from the humanitarian aid and the assistance to the democratic transition.
Thank you very much, Mrs Malmström.
