in writing. - I completely oppose European funds being used to grow tobacco in the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) I have chosen to vote to the fullest possible extent in favour of the Council's draft budget for 2008, and therefore against all increases in expenditure proposed by the European Parliament.
I have also been involved in the issue of the abolition of subsidies for tobacco producers and support for wine production, and can only regret that Parliament is not prepared to support those proposals. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
The financing of the European Institute of Technology still needs to be resolved, because the Commission has proposed a bridging solution of a maximum amount of EUR 308 million.
We Hungarians are able to provide an appropriate location for an Institute that is modest in size, economical, but all the more rigorous in terms of its intellectual basis. (LT) Today we have completed the first reading of the EU budget for 2008 and have voted in favour of it.
According to the budget, more than EUR 129 billion will be allocated for commitments and more than EUR 124 billion for payments in 2008.
That is why I have a problem with paragraphs 2 and 4 in the Virrankoski report.
Finally, an additional problem that makes it more difficult to approve the Virrankoski report is Amendment 2 by the Socialist Group.
in writing. - (SV) Today we Swedish Social Democrats voted on the 2008 EU budget.
As regards Daphne (protection of children, women and young people against violence), we voted in favour of increasing the appropriation up to the level of the Commission's proposal.
in writing. - (PT) As we have pointed out, although it contains aspects that improve the proposal of the Council and the Commission, in the end the draft general budget for 2008, approved at first reading by the EP, does not comply with what was agreed for 2008 in the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013.
Hence our vote against.
in writing. - (RO) I support the European Union's Budget, in its current form, for several reasons.
The 553 million euro cut-back in agriculture, operated by the Council, was mainly reestablished, and the reserve created on the Commission's administrative funds is justified by the delays recorded in approving the Sectorial Operational Programmes and Rural Development Programmes.
I support the proposal to transfer 49 million euros from the funds allocated to the Commission to reserves until it submits a clear report on its human resources policy, especially as regards the recruitment of new employees from the countries that have recently joined the European Union - Romania and Bulgaria.
in writing. - I voted for this part of the 2008 Budget, while supporting the UK Government's position on a range of issues.
A balance has been struck for 2008 between financing, on the one hand, for external policies such as support for Kosovo and Palestine and, on the other, for Galileo, a project that binds the Member States closer together.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has defended its priorities well at this first-reading stage of the 2008 budget, and I support what the two rapporteurs have achieved, particularly in relation to cohesion and sustainable growth.
in writing. - (PT) Of the many aspects of this draft budget for 2008 that could be highlighted, we would like to stress two: First, how much we regret the inconsistency of this Parliament, which claims that it recognises and preserves the linguistic diversity of Members of the European Parliament, but at the same time refuses to accept the inclusion of a clear reference that it is mandatory for all the official languages of the EU to be available during its meetings, as we have proposed for some years.
It is estimated that over 200 million euros would be saved annually from the European tax payer's money if it was decided to establish the Parliament's headquarters in Brussels, not only due to the inherent cost reduction, but also by facilitating interinstitutional work.
in writing. - (DA) We members of the Danish Liberal Party (Venstre) in the European Parliament have voted to reject Amendment 8 by Mr Schlyter and Mr Jens-Peter Bonde of the Independence and Democracy Group.
in writing. - I voted for these sections of the 2008 Budget.
in writing. - I voted for the reports in respect of the 2008 draft budget, but I did so heavy in heart because it would appear that the expensive circus that is our regular visits to Strasbourg looks set to continue.
Martin Luther King once said "I have a dream”.
The fact is that criminal law in Europe today is not standard - indeed far from it.
in writing. - (PT) As the report states, the 1999 Tampere European Council endorsed the principle of mutual recognition as 'the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters within the Union'.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour of the report.
However, we voted against Amendment 7.
The agreement must not entail detrimental consequences for fisheries and the population in Madagascar either.
in writing. - (PT) This Partnership Agreement was signed for a renewable period of six years from 1 January 2007, with Portugal obtaining seven fishing opportunities with surface longliners, representing a gain of one fishing licence compared with the previous agreement.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which endorsed the Fisheries Partnership Agreement with Madagascar.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against the report as a protest against the way in which the Commission proposes to share fishing opportunities among the Member States under this agreement.
Contrary to what has always happened in this type of agreement, the Commission is proposing to violate a basic principle that has been a fundamental tool for ensuring justice and equality between Member States and, in practice, a tacit agreement between them.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour of the report.
However, we voted against Amendment 8.
The agreement must not entail detrimental consequences for the fisheries and the population in Mozambique either.
in writing. - (PT) We cannot vote in favour of this fishing agreement, because we believe the sharing of fishing opportunities it establishes among the various Member States is disproportionate and inadequate, since it does not safeguard Portugal's legitimate interests.
This Partnership Agreement between the EC and Mozambique came into force on 1 January 2007 for a period of five years, and, compared with the previous agreement, it provides for an increase of 2 000 tonnes in the Community fishing quota for tuna or tuna-like species.
Bearing in mind the previous distribution of licences and (non-)respect for the principle of relative stability in the light of the increase in fishing opportunities, this new agreement therefore involves a marked imbalance: Portugal only gains two more licences, while the other Member States gain a further 16 (France) and 13 (Spain).
Hence our vote against.
in writing. - (PT) The purpose of the regulation on business registers (Council Regulation (EEC) No 2186/93), which compiles statistics on businesses operating in the European Union, namely their number, type, size structure and other characteristics, was to provide reliable statistical data for EU policy-makers.
In its Common Position of 21 May 2007, the Council endorsed all 22 Parliament amendments.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which helps improve those parts of the EU's statistical system that involve registers of information about businesses operating in the Union.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have voted in favour of Parliament's resolution on rising feed and food prices.
in writing. - (PT) The recent rise in food prices is due largely to successive reforms in the CAP, the abandonment of production thereby promoted, and the resulting disappearance of many small and medium-sized farms.
in writing. - I supported the joint motion for a resolution on rising feed and food prices which addresses the significant shift in commodity prices in the EU and globally.
I also voted in favour of amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, which deal with the issue of GM in feed ingredients.
Here I refer to a concrete example - that of neglecting the rights of the Romanian community and the Romanian language speakers in Serbia, especially in Valea Timocului and Vojvodina.
in writing. (SV) - We Swedish Social Democrats supported the report, which is good.
We voted in favour of paragraph 61 because we support free trade.
in writing. - (SV) It is clear that sexual and reproductive health is an extremely important issue.
Therefore, the welfare of women and children should not be exploited by the European Parliament in its attempt to expand its authority, as in paragraph 77 of the report.
in writing. - (PL) Mrs Martens is right to note that the basis for developing cooperation between Africa and Europe should be developing democracy and a partnership based on mutual respect.
It was also right to point out that the partners are equal as regards their rights and responsibilities, but not as regards their level of integration or access to and level of development of financial, technical and human resources.
in writing. - (PL) I would like to vote in favour of Mrs Martens' report on EU-Africa relations.
in writing. (SV) - We Swedish Social Democrats supported the report, which is good.
However, we voted against Amendment 1, which referred to the use of cluster munitions in two specific conflicts.
in writing. - (SV) There is no doubt that cluster munitions are very cruel weapons systems which cause great suffering to civilians.
in writing. - (PT) On 17 September last, the United Nations called on its Member States to take immediate measures to address the dreadful effects of the use of cluster munitions, calling for the conclusion of a legally binding instrument of international humanitarian law that prohibits the use, development, production, stockpiling and transfer of such munitions.
However, the majority of the EP voted against specifying that cluster munitions have been used by the so-called coalition forces in Afghanistan and Iraq, and by Israeli forces in the Lebanon.
We note that the number of opium-free provinces in Afghanistan has more than doubled this year.
The International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) has stated that an overproduction in licit opiates since 2000 has led to stockpiles in producing countries 'that could cover demand for two years'.
in writing. - I voted against this report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (PT) Information from the register of activities shows that the Ombudsman received 3 830 complaints in 2006.
The Ombudsman, however, felt that only 21.5% of these cases fell within his remit, of which 258 led to an inquiry.
In 2006 the Ombudsman carried out 582 inquiries in total, of which 315 were already under way in 2005 and nine were launched on the Ombudsman's own initiative.
