Women and science (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Thomsen, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on women and science.
The latest available statistics show that whereas women represent more than 50% of graduates in all university departments, only 15% of professors are women.
Since 1999, the European Commission has been attending to the issue of the lack of women in research.
In the Fifth Framework Programme, the Commission gave financial support to studies and projects in the field of women and science.
The next issue will be published in 2009.
This non-binding target has been in place since 2000 and has brought very good results.
For example, women's participation in committees evaluating research work has increased from 10% in the Fourth Framework Programme to 34% in the Sixth Framework Programme.
The report underlines the negative impact of an interruption in employment on women scientists' careers.
This is directly linked with the target agreed by the Member States in 2005: 25% of senior posts in public research organisations should be occupied by women.
A report on this issue was recently published under the title 'Mapping the maze: getting more women to the top in research'.
The conference to be held in May 2009 under the auspices of the Czech Presidency of the EU will undertake a survey of the successes of the last 10 years and will also identify the areas in which further efforts are needed.
The European Parliament's contribution here will be invaluable.
Europe must create more jobs; we must create better jobs and we must become stronger in research and innovation.
We must have more women in work, and we must have more women in managerial positions and decision-making bodies.
If we in Europe are to create up to 700 000 research positions in the coming years, we must also become better at utilising our female talent base.
Women comprise an average of just 35% of researchers working in the public sector and 18% of researchers working in the private sector.
In my report I therefore included a requirement for the Member States and the Commission to set a target of at least 40% women in all recruitment and evaluation panels.
They are more intelligent; they are more hard-working; they can apply themselves and yet, even when they go into higher education, into the start of a research career, they sometimes fall away.
Thank you very much, Mr Dover.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SK) Thank you very much, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
Allow me to congratulate Mrs Thomsen, on behalf of the shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group, Mrs Sartori, and on my own behalf as well.
I want to say that the situation regarding women and science is comparable with the situation of women and politics, although in the field of science women are slightly better represented.
This is a real problem in some countries, namely the new Member States, where support for science and research does not account for even 1% of GDP.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, women's participation in higher education has increased dramatically over recent years.
Women are less well represented in scientific institutions.
The Lisbon Strategy also requires us to apply the principles of gender equality in the field of research and development.
We must take more effective action in all areas of science, making recruitment procedures and promotion requirements more transparent.
on behalf of ALDE. - (ET) Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, life in today's world is increasingly bound up with science and technology through both new or improved products and services and technological development.
However, there are seven times fewer women than men working at a senior level in scientific and educational establishments: the average is 15%.
I support the positive measures proposed in the report to encourage and support women scientists, whether in the form of careers advice aimed at women scientists or special programmes to support girls' and women's interest in science-based careers.
I cannot, however, support mechanistic quotas based on gender as they tie us to a specific time-period and may result in quantity instead of quality.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, gender equality is a value and objective of the European Union.
However, although much has been written about it, discrimination occurs on a daily basis.
The figures are sobering: only 15% of all professors are female.
Wage discrimination also occurs in science: the committees that make decisions about research projects comprise fewer than 20% women.
To close, let me to mention another matter close to my heart: we know that by 2010, the European Union will be short of 700 000 researchers.
We must therefore make every effort to prevent the European Union becoming a scientific wasteland.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, in my country, Poland, the average level of education among women is higher than the average level of education among men.
The rector of my university, ranked number one in Poland, is also a woman, a professor of physics.
The reality that governs the situation of women in the world of science is not the same everywhere, though.
Problems are evident when you learn that women make up only 35% of scientific workers employed in the State sector and higher education in the European Union, and only 18% in the private sector.
The findings of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this report are important, in my view.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) My thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Thomsen, for highlighting the problem of inequality in science and research.
The Scientific Council of the European Research Council has 22 members, of whom five are women.
This report focuses attention on the problem but, in my opinion, it is not enough.
Contrary to what strident feminists say, in my country women are generally respected; they do not have complexes but rather an awareness of their own value and strength, in the knowledge that, in cooperating with men, they are playing an important role in all areas of life, while, however, placing the highest value on defending life, protecting marriage and the family and other supreme values.
According to reports, women make up 38% of scientific workers in EU countries in Central and Eastern Europe, although a large number of them are employed in fields in which expenditure on scientific research is low.
Women's participation in science does not correspond to the needs of research, even though women achieve higher education than men, and even though there are more women in higher education than men.
The fact is that female researchers find it more difficult to reconcile working and family life than men.
Since scientific work is non-stop, it would be to women's advantage to work from home as well, unless their presence at the workplace is inevitable.
I think that quotas will not solve the problem of the lack of women scientists if women themselves do not wish to change this status quo.
In the government and higher education sector they comprise an average of 35% of researchers, and in the private sector just 18%.
Analyses have shown that existing recruitment systems are not gender neutral.
The Commission and Member States should introduce transparent recruitment procedures as soon as possible to ensure a gender balance in recruitment bodies.
Since research represents a crucial sector for the economic development of the European Union, and Europe needs to recruit 700 000 additional researchers as part of the fulfilment of the Lisbon Strategy for growth and development, it is very important to programme science as an area that is open to both genders and to ensure that women are properly represented among scientists.
Although there are a large number of female students in the universities of the EU, only 18% of researchers working in the private sector and only 15% of researchers in senior academic positions are women.
Moreover, women working in scientific research are paid much less than their male colleagues and their work usually consists more of teaching than of research, which seldom allows them to achieve recognition.
Mr President, coming from a science background myself, I welcome this important discussion on women in the field of science and technology.
In 2003 in my own country, Ireland, a Science, Engineering and Technology (SET) Committee was set up to make recommendations on strategies to increase the uptake among women and girls of science subjects and higher level-mathematics at second level and to increase the number of females choosing science engineering and technology courses at third level.
This committee is chaired by Professor Jane Grimson of Trinity College, Dublin, an eminent academic in her own right.
Finally, these schemes aim to encourage and support the development of sustainable mechanisms and practices which will ensure that women researchers have an equal opportunity to compete on the basis of their scientific expertise, knowledge and potential. (BG) President, Commissioner, the report on Women in Science is very well scoped, and it deals with the participation of women in one of the most important development processes, scientific research.
Women play an important role in universities, research institutes and the private sector.
The unsatisfactory level of women's involvement in management and decision-making in science, the low percentage of women holding PhDs, or who are professors or members of academies has to do with public stereotypes and difficulties on the path of women in their pursuit of careers in science.
For young women in science, the principle of double priority should apply: both family and career. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I think that our goal is the same, we want to achieve parity, but we are not unanimous about how to achieve it.
Commissioner, your statistics are well put together, they prove that the road is long and laborious and that you have done the right thing by introducing quotas for nominations in committees, because, without a proactive policy, we will not find women, because in order to find them we first need to have the will to find them.
On the contrary, transition has generated the brutal decline in funds allocated to research and the decrease in the number of researchers.
Nevertheless, a traditional hierarchy of sciences does not provide them with sufficient social recognition and works as indirect discrimination against the women researchers in these fields. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Thomsen's report has touched on a sensitive aspect of my own experience.
As the rapporteur emphasises, Europe needs an extra 700 000 researchers if the Strategy's principles are to be put into effect.
They should be viewed in a broader context - in a context where women's participation in the labour market is supported and encouraged. (SK) As my colleague just said, Europe needs more than 700 000 researchers today.
Current statistics show that although women achieve higher education than men, they comprise only one third of researchers working in the government sector and only 18% of researchers working in the private sector.
Moreover, it is necessary that some budgetary lines finance a greater participation of women in the research programmes or the grants with Community financing.
Mr President, as one of a very small number of men attending this important debate, and as a scientist myself, I feel the need to say this: In my long experience as a medical practitioner I found that women scientists were just as good as, if not better than, men.
The only problem for women in achieving top positions has, in my view, been the very hard choice they have had to make in deciding whether to be a full-time mother and a part-time scientist or the reverse.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers in tonight's debate for their very positive contributions.
The Commission policy on gender in research has two main strands - women's participation in research and the gender dimension of research.
The Commission is as committed as ever to the promotion of gender equality in research.
Our endeavours are already bringing results and I would like to thank you for your support in our efforts on improving the situation for better inclusion of women in science and research.
This is because they are not gender-neutral, and I therefore believe that we must do something about that.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) As a teacher of mathematics, I have dealt with the phenomenon of young women's ever decreasing access to science directly.
Taking into account the statistics that show that ever fewer young women chose science faculties, where mathematics, physics, biology or chemistry are intensively taught, I consider the draft report of the European Parliament on women and science to be opportune.
