The liberalisation of the visa regime is based on a regional strategy and European perspective without discriminating against all of the countries of the Western Balkans.
The same criteria that were set out in the visa regime liberalisation action plans should be applied to all the countries concerned.
For the Western Balkans, in particular, it is important that all the countries of the region should be granted such a prospect.
I voted in favour of the Fajon report on the liberalisation of visas for the Western Balkans because it is the European Parliament's responsibility to send out a strong message to all of the countries of the Western Balkans that says that we support them in their efforts to meet the criteria laid down by the European Commission in relation to the liberalisation of the visa policy.
These criteria have already been met in the case of Serbia and Montenegro, but it has not yet been possible to give the green light to Albania and Bosnia.
This may result in both a lack of legal certainty and an invasion of privacy and I therefore abstained in the final vote.
Although I voted in favour of this report, I believe this process needs to be monitored carefully.
For all these reasons, I believe the caution shown by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) towards Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully justified, and I repeat that the countries granted the possibility of visa waiver should be kept under careful observation.
Voting for the Fajon report means indirectly recognising the independence of Kosovo, and that is not acceptable.
Kosovo is currently only able to sustain its government with massive EU aid and, for that reason, visa waiver negotiations are pointless at this time.
We need to better communicate the basis of these decisions, whilst also making clear to Albania, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina that they still need to make major efforts in order to be ready to join the European club.
Conditions for, and the possibilities of, relaxing visa requirements have been discussed for five Western Balkan States - Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.
I therefore abstained in the final vote.
The purpose of the Commission proposal is to create a new European Microfinance Facility for Employment, which will give unemployed people the chance to make a fresh start and will pave the way for some of the most disadvantaged groups in Europe, including young people, to start their own businesses.
in writing. - Due to the fact that Parliament has yet to conclude its examination of the microfinance facility, it is not yet clear whether the funds that should be made available to this facility might originate from Progress.
I have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution opposing the draft proposed by the Commission for the Progress annual plan of work for 2010 because the Commission has clearly overstepped its power.
It has attempted to reallocate budgetary resources from the Progress programme to the microfinance facility before the European Parliament has reached a decision.
If the Commission wants to set up a microcredit scheme, it should do so with new resources and not at the expense of Progress.
That is why there is clear opposition to adopting the Commission's draft decision regarding the Progress annual plan of work for 2010 and list of activities by policy section.
We also believe the correct thing for the Commission to do is to withdraw the draft decision regarding the Progress annual plan of work for 2010 and list of activities by policy section, and to submit a new proposal.
The Progress Microfinance Facility proposed by the European Commission is an extremely important initiative which may be able to fulfil this role in reintegrating those groups affected by social exclusion.
However, until the codecision process between the Commission and the European Parliament is up and running and the budget for the microfinance facility is completely clear, it would be a sensible idea for the European Commission to withdraw its proposal concerning the Progress annual plan of work for 2010 and not present the colegislators with a fait accompli.
in writing. - I took the decision to support this motion for a resolution as I oppose the suggestion made by the Commission to reduce the financial envelope of the Programme for Employment and Social solidarity - Progress, by EUR 100 million and to reallocate this money to the European Microfinance Facility for Employment and Social Inclusion.
According to these, EUR 100 million should be reallocated to finance Progress, the new European Microfinance Facility supporting employment and social solidarity in order to implement the 'shared commitment for employment' mentioned in Commission communication COM(2009)257.
This is why I voted in favour of the Commission withdrawing the draft decision on the annual plan of work for 2010 as part of the Progress Programme and list of activities by policy section and the future Commission resubmitting a new proposal, after the Treaty of Lisbon has come into force and the European Parliament, Council and Commission have reached an agreement on the proposal submitted by the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council and on the amended proposal.
One of the most crucial areas of cooperation in EU-Russia relations is specifically that of energy and energy security.
in writing. - An EU-Russia Summit will take place on 18 November 2009.
I voted in favour of this resolution since I believe that this summit is particularly important, coming as it does just before the Copenhagen climate change conference, and it may be an excellent opportunity to strengthen EU-Russia relations.
I am concerned to have to point out, however, that Russia has not shown itself to be an actor guided by these values.
The fall of Communism does not mean the end of differences but, in these relations, it does mean the end of confrontation.
We welcome the continuing exchange of points of view on human rights in Russia.
The EU's one-sided view of the conflict in Georgia, where the Union is clearly behind Georgia, is contrary to the EU's role as a fair and independent observer.
I therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
In the light of these considerations I voted against the motion for a resolution on the EU-Russia Summit.
I endorsed the resolution on the EU-Russia Summit, because the forthcoming summit between the European Union and Russia in Stockholm is an opportunity to think through the most important problems of that strategic cooperation.
Russia should understand that this project is not directed against Russia.
in writing. - Relations between the EU and Russia are clearly more than just about trade.
Particularly worthy of note is Amendment 3 to the EU-Russia Summit in the Stockholm resolution, adopted by the European Parliament, which adds a new Paragraph 9a to the resolution: 'Stresses that developing infrastructure links between the EU and the Russian Federation is mutually beneficial and therefore should be encouraged and based on minimising economic and environmental costs; strongly encourages Russia to adhere, in energy cooperation projects with the EU, to the fundamental principles formulated in the Energy Charter'.
Only a united stance of all Member States, including a united position of the Council, Parliament and the Commission, can give final form to the new framework agreement on cooperation between the EU and Russia.
Due to the seriousness of these diseases, it is crucial that more is done at EU level in order to tackle these issues.
It is for this reason that I have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution because of the importance of tackling Alzheimer's disease in Europe.
I believe that Article 182(5) of the Treaty of Lisbon, which lays down the codecision procedure for implementing the European research area, could provide a more appropriate legal basis for future joint programming initiatives in the field of research through greater involvement of the European Parliament.
We voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, since we are aware that neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, affect more than seven million people living in the countries of the European Union.
We join in welcoming the Commission's proposed pilot project for joint programming of research in this field, although we do not regard it as enough.
It is important to make further progress, particularly through a multidisciplinary approach encompassing social research into the welfare of patients and their families, and by promoting 'brain-healthy lifestyles' and considerable improvements in the living conditions and state of health of the population in general.
That is why I support the Europe-wide implementation of any system that will enable us to do more to treat the effects of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular, of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, both at a social level and at a public health level.
There are an estimated seven million people across the EU with dementia, some 70 000 in Scotland - and these figures are expected to rise in the future.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the joint programming of research to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Alzheimer's, because I feel it is important to speed up the joint research work carried out by the Member States in relation to neurodegenerative diseases.
That is why I recommend that the Member States pool their resources and their efforts in order to further the research together, since by working together as Europeans, we will be in a stronger position to combat these diseases.
A genuine public health problem, neurodegenerative diseases and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease, represent the main diseases for which people over 65 years old require substantial clinical care.
This is why the European Parliament is acting as the citizens' sounding board when it calls for coordinated research efforts in this field via the resolution adopted today.
The launch of the new website at the start of 2009 is a welcome measure.
I therefore welcome the proposal made by the rapporteur about drafting an interactive guide, allowing citizens to find out as much information as possible about how to go about submitting a complaint, as well as about easily identifying the right way to resolve the problems they are facing.
I voted in favour of Mrs Paliadeli's report as I believe it presents a complete, detailed overview of what the European Ombudsman does in terms of handling and resolving citizens' complaints.
At the same time, I want to congratulate Mr Diamandouros for the work he has done throughout 2008 and for the record number of inquiries and cases resolved.
The European Ombudsman is an extremely important institution as it brings the European Union closer to its citizens.
This mediator ensures that the European Union's institutions and bodies operate in its citizens' interest in a transparent, fair, proper and non-discriminatory manner, and in total compliance with procedures.
As European citizens do not know the best person to contact when their rights are breached, they very often contact the European Ombudsman without good reason.
This report gives a clear and comprehensive view of the European Ombudsman's activities in 2008.
Its new layout and the new way of presenting statistical data have helped make this report clearer and more comprehensible than those previously tabled.
The Ombudsman recorded an increase in the number of complaints referred to him, although only 802 of the 3 406 complaints received in 2008 fell within his mandate.
It is important to ensure that citizens receive prompt and substantive responses to their enquiries, complaints and petitions, and also to strengthen their trust in the European Union and its institutions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Paliadeli report on the European Ombudsman's activities.
The Ombudsman provides an important service to EU citizens and helps ensure that the European institutions operate within both the law and wider general principles.
At the same time, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for her efforts in completing this report.
The European Mediator has played a key role in increasing transparency and responsibility as part of the European Union's decision-making process and administrative system.
I sincerely hope that the 44 inquiries closed with critical remarks in 2008 will lead, in the future, to a reduction in the number of maladministration cases.
In view of the important role played by the European Ombudsman, in that he promotes transparency in the relations between the European Union and its citizens, I reiterate my position that constructive relationships have been developed among all the Community institutions and bodies.
Indeed, it is regrettable that 36% of the 355 inquiries completed by the Ombudsman in 2008 concern the lack of transparency of the European institutions, and include cases in which requests for information were refused.
As part of the budgetary conciliation procedure scheduled for 19 November, the European Commission, European Union Council and European Parliament must reach an agreement on adopting transitional guidelines.
I must also point to the need to cut down on the current number of amending budgets, which has been excessive, and urge the Commission to table proposals for the adoption of a regulation containing the multiannual financial framework and for the adaptation of the financial regulation.
The report focuses on transitional procedural guidelines on budgetary matters in view of the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty.
Of course, because of the changes introduced into budgetary procedure, the entry into force of the treaty - to which we have been and remain opposed - requires the adoption of these transitional measures, given that the European Union budget for 2010 will still be approved within the framework provided by the Treaty of Nice.
The subject of this report, therefore, is not the Treaty of Lisbon itself, but the need to adopt a procedure that makes it possible to implement the budget for 2010.
Nonetheless, we cannot vote in favour of a report that says straight away in paragraph 1: the European Parliament 'welcomes the imminent entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon'.
Furthermore, we will expect the adoption of the transitional guidelines considered during the budgetary conciliation meeting set for 19 November, prior to the Council's second reading, confident that they will be given due importance.
The Lamassoure report identifies the limits and conditions where the European Parliament can authorise the relevant committee to negotiate at the budgetary conciliation which will take place on 19 November.
I also congratulate the Commission for the efficient manner in which they have provided us with the current transitional rules.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the report by my colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Lamassoure.
I therefore call for transitional rules to be adopted without delay, and the next meeting between the Council and Parliament to negotiate the 2010 budget could be an opportunity to adopt them ...
