The Kremlin has agreed to initial discussion of the issue in Moscow on 16 November, but that is still two months away.
I want to encourage the European Commission and the European Council to address the issue considerably sooner, at the next summit in a month's time on 26 October in Portugal.
I should simply like to quote what he said on 31 December: 'The European Parliament may censure the Commission, may bring about its resignation, may reject the budget, may vote for a budget other than that proposed by the Council, but the European Parliament must in particular forward its opinions to the Council.
In our country's history, the Catholic religion has played an important role in the fight for freedom during the Communist era and, in general, has acted for the development of democracy.
This is interference in Polish affairs and in Polish sensitivities as regards Europe, the Polish nation and religion.
In the context of its strategy of isolating the Dalai Lama on the international stage, China requested Mrs Merkel not to meet him.
The President of this Parliament, an institution representing 27 nations, is expected to show objectivity and represent the common interests.
I also laid a wreath at Auschwitz-Birkenau: I believe that people from every country in Europe have been there and I believe that all of us - including yourself, most particularly, Mr President - are determined such things will never happen again!
But if he is interested in having a real debate here, then I would be pleased if he would support our Group's request to hold a debate on this subject in this House at the earliest opportunity. (Exchange of views with microphones switched off) I hope this matter will be resolved amicably. (SL) Thank you very much, Mr President.
Also, I have received numerous complaints at my parliamentary office from the Romanian community of Valea Timocului in Serbia, in relation to the prohibition of the right to learn and pray in the Romanian language.
I also consider that, for regulating such situations, the Commission also has to take into account measures for encouraging and facilitating the migration of labour forces between Member States. (PL) Mr President, for us Poles the Gdansk shipyard is not just the birthplace of 'Solidarity', it is also a symbol of the changes that have taken place both on a national and international level.
Today the workforce and I ask that the Members sign declaration no. 81 concerning the future of the Gdansk shipyard.
The Gaza Strip has reached crisis point.
Chancellor Angela Merkel was the first German Head of Government to receive the Dalai Lama, in Berlin.
As a citizen of a country with enough experience in the matter, I know how difficult it is to keep politics away from trying to exploit such an economic dependency. (SL) Mr President, I have drawn attention on a number of occasions to the Slovenian minorities in Italy and Austria but on this occasion I welcome the Italian Government's actions last year aimed at implementing a law to protect the Slovenian minority, namely the establishment of a list of 32 municipalities in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and support for the building of a Slovenian school in San Pietro al Natisone and Slavia Veneta.
However, I also call upon the Austrian Government and our fellow Austrian MEPs to do their utmost to ensure that Austria also makes the earliest possible start on implementing in full Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty.
I refer in particular to paragraph 3 which in principle guarantees the Slovenian minority the right to bilingual signs.
I want to protest against the actions of the Polish Government in blocking a decision in Council to have a Europe-wide declaration regarding the abolition of the death penalty on 10 October 2007.
Something like 5 000 people are executed by states every year and 28 000 people languish on death row, so it is inexcusable that a full Member State of the European Union should in any way deliver an opinion which seeks to undermine the argument for ending the death penalty.
