The latest Human Right Watch report, published on 3 October 2006, describes the situation in detail.
Two journalists, Djamshid Karimov and Ulugbek Khaidarov, disappeared in Uzbekistan in September.
author. - Mr President, unusually for us, sanctions are currently in place against Uzbekistan.
Sanctions should be used sparingly and only as a last resort, but we in this House should not be afraid to call for them and indeed to see them implemented, as they are the only real weapon for encouraging internal change within that country.
We would like to see provision in paragraph 2 for the sanctions to be extended, with a targeted visa ban on specific key individuals.
Last month, the delegation for relations with the countries of Central Asia - of which I am a member - planned to travel to Uzbekistan.
The memory of the Andijan massacre in May 2005 is very much alive in our minds today, especially since the numerous requests by the UN, the EU and others for an independent investigation appear to have fallen on deaf ears.
author. - (PL) Mr President, little has changed in Uzbekistan since the last European Parliament resolution on the situation in that country and the republics of Central Asia.
The Government of Uzbekistan has still not agreed to an independent inquiry into the events that took place on 13 May 2005 in Andijan, where troops sent in by President Karimov crushed a popular uprising.
The government says that 169 people died, whereas the opposition puts the figure at 745.
In March, the High Commissioner for Refugees was expelled from the country and, worse still, between November and July, in an act of rare hypocrisy, over 250 people were summarily convicted for causing the May massacre, in a series of grotesque, media-circus trials.
We obviously call for respect for human rights and support for the resolution. (PL) Mr President, a single minute is simply not enough time to discuss infringements of human rights in Uzbekistan.
It is true that Islamic extremism is gathering strength in Uzbekistan, but this cannot be used as an excuse for violating human rights.
The EU's relations with Uzbekistan are a matter of great importance to us, but they must be founded on respect for democracy, for the rule of law and for human rights.
Member of the Commission.
A decision whether to prolong or extend the scope of these sanctions must be taken by 14 November.
