A new situation has now arisen as a result of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has indicated that Article 75 is the correct legal basis, as has Parliament's Legal Service.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, first of all, I would like to thank and congratulate my fellow rapporteurs, Mrs Bozkurt and Mrs Striffler.
Since respect for human rights is one of the fundamental values of the Union, it is crucial that these rights are fully respected.
Thus, I welcome the fact that, thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament can do a thorough job of colegislating in this area and can provide the necessary democratic control where European counterterrorism policies are concerned.
The Taliban, the al-Qaeda network and Osama bin Laden represent the greatest, most urgent risk for the European Union.
I regret, however, that Parliament's role in this area has been diminished by the Treaty of Lisbon, contrary to the spirit of the treaty and the importance that it confers on Parliament.
Restrictive measures against third countries, individuals, natural or legal persons or other entities are an important tool for the EU in its foreign and security policy.
In some cases, restrictive measures are introduced by the Council when we implement resolutions that have been adopted by the UN Security Council in accordance with Chapter VII of the UN Charter.
The Council interprets the Treaty of Lisbon in such a way as to apply Article 215 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in respect of these and other restrictive measures within the framework of the common foreign and security policy, including with regard to terrorism.
Targeted sanctions are intended to minimise the negative impact that these measures can have on the population of the country in question.
According to the Treaty of Lisbon, restrictive measures will also continue to be used as a tool within the common foreign and security policy by means of Council Decisions in accordance with Article 29 of the treaty.
It is important to point out that any decision on restrictive measures, and implementation of these measures, must always comply with international law.
With the experience that we have gained in applying sanctions, we have carried out thorough assessments and have looked at how sanctions can be imposed in a constructive way.
It expands the scope of the former Article 301 and should be applied as the legal base for amendment of the al-Qaeda and Taliban Sanctions Regulation.
Secondly, Article 215 applies when there is a Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) decision.
The al-Qaeda and Taliban Sanctions Regulation implements a CFSP decision which requires that regulations be made to implement certain UN Security Council resolutions.
Article 215 addresses the role of Parliament and Council and the legislator should not deviate from the treaty.
Most recently, UN Security Council Resolution 1822 provided that a summary of reasons should be made available on the UN al-Qaeda and Taliban Sanctions Committee's website in connection with each listed person, and provided for a review of all names on the list by 30 June 2010, with provision for regular review thereafter.
The approach in Resolution 1822 has since been replicated in Resolution 1844 on sanctions in relation to Somalia and in Resolution 1857 in relation to Democratic Republic of Congo.
Resolution 1822 provides for a review of the measures contained in it after 18 months.
The President of the Commission, Dr Barroso, for example, said the following here in Strasbourg on 25 November, on the preparation of the European Council: 'Now the Lisbon Treaty gives us a new opportunity to move ahead.
In other cases, such as Zimbabwe and Somalia, for example, optional consultation should be envisaged, as in fact is enshrined in the Stuttgart Declaration on the European Union, which was also mentioned in the question.
I do not consider this to be entirely correct, especially in a case such as this, involving a highly sensitive area relating to the field of justice and protection of fundamental rights, because the fight against terrorism is a highly sensitive theme for the citizens of our countries and for the entire EU.
It is for these reasons that these targeted sanctions must comply with a number of minimum rules in terms of procedure and legal certainty.
I would add that the Council's amendments concerning blacklists depend on the proposals that have been made, including by the European Parliament.
Because they wear the kirpan, a small ceremonial dagger, beneath their clothing, they have been prevented from entering the European Parliament.
As a result, you and 700 others have the freedom to come from the four corners of Europe to meet in this place.
It is therefore clear, as also affirmed by Parliament's legal service, that each measure of this kind must follow the ordinary legislative procedure, enabling the representatives of Europe's citizens to fully perform their roles as legislators and guarantors. (DE) Mr President, Article 75 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union governs the implementation of restrictive measures to combat terrorism and, therefore, any intrusions into citizens' property rights, such as freezing bank accounts.
While these provisions concern police cooperation in criminal matters, Article 215 refers to the common foreign and security policy.
As a result, on one page, in Article 75, Parliament is a colegislator and, on another page, in Article 215, Parliament only has to be informed about events.
Article 215 clearly states that the Council only has to inform the European Parliament on the measures adopted, as opposed to the former procedure that implied the consultation of Parliament on such matters.
Leaving aside the legal aspect that I hope will be solved through good cooperation between the European institutions, I would like to draw your attention to the important problem that we are debating here, which is fighting terrorism and terrorism-related activities, such as the ones carried out by Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaeda network.
I trust your good judgment in solving this procedural problem, and I am looking forward to hearing the opinion of the representatives of the Council and the Commission. (PT) Mrs Malmström, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to return to a subject addressed by a number of my fellow Members, particularly in the last speeches by Mr Papanikolaou and Mr Luhan.
In principle, Article 215 seems to be the most appropriate.
There is no doubt, therefore, that these proposals do not fulfil the necessary requirements for adoption on the basis of Article 215.
That, then, should be the most appropriate legal basis, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure.
Article 67 also sets out the objectives of the foundations of the area of freedom, security and justice.
It therefore appears to be clear that, with regard to people or entities associated with terrorist activities, the legal basis for the Council's proposals for regulations should be Article 75.
For that reason, it is difficult for those who are trying to combat terrorism to prove how effective they are, but I think we could safely say that, if the terrorists had their way, this place would have been blown up long ago.
Sometimes, we may not be able to know all the details of individuals involved, but at the same time, the overall principle is a good one. (PL) I would like to thank you very much for allowing me to speak on this subject.
Article 215 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, functioning as an exception to the provisions of Article 75, according to which the European Parliament is a joint lawmaking body, should therefore not have been applied or interpreted in such a way as to weaken the protection of fundamental rights and the democratic process of decision making in the EU.
This will give the European Parliament the power of codecision in a lot of areas.
Sanctions and respect for human rights and legal certainty are not mutually exclusive - quite the contrary.
I can assure you that the European Parliament will be involved in the formulation of new rules, including those relating to terrorism, with the power of codecision under Article 75 when it comes to sanctions within the European Union.
However, as regards external action, in other words sanctions against third countries adopted by the UN, the European Parliament will have no power of codecision.
However, we will give a lot of attention to your resolution on this matter and will always bear in mind the human rights aspect when we resort to the instrument of sanctions, within the EU and in the UN.
Firstly, honourable Members have quite rightly talked about the importance of fundamental rights, and I think we would all agree that there of course is a significant role in this for the European Court of Justice who, amongst other things, will make sure that rights are respected in terms of what the Council or the Commission does.
Members of Parliament of course are at liberty to contest that, but I think it is very important that wherever we arrive in this, there is legal certainty.
