Today, it is of the utmost importance, now that the epidemic has claimed more than 25 million lives, that the European Union reaffirm its commitment to combat the global HIV/AIDS pandemic.
Universal access to prevention, testing, early treatment and support in this field is essential, and the European Parliament, your House, emphasised this in its resolution of 24 April 2007.
For this reason, the European Union must speak out clearly and consistently against all forms of discrimination against people living with HIV anywhere in the world.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would say to the honourable Members and to Minister Jouyet that, as we approach World AIDS Day on 1 December 2008, this plenary session provides a good opportunity to reflect on some significant achievements in combating HIV/AIDS and to focus on the serious challenges that lie ahead.
This year's Nobel Prize for Medicine was awarded to two European researchers at the Pasteur Institute - Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi and Professor Luc Montagnier, who were the first to isolate the Human Immunodeficiency Virus back in 1983.
However, 25 years later, we still do not have a cure for HIV/AIDS and still witness millions of new infections per year worldwide, including tens of thousands of new infections in Europe.
Indeed, we recently had a very useful exchange of views on HIV/AIDS in a round-table meeting organised by Vice-President Miguel-Angel Martínez Martínez and Zita Gurmai on the need for HIV testing and subsequent early 'state of the art' care and support.
Experts estimate that an average of 30% of people in Europe infected with HIV are not aware of their status.
In this context, we reaffirm our commitment to supporting partner countries in scaling-up towards universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, care and support.
The Commission is currently developing its second strategy on combating HIV/AIDS in the EU and also our near neighbourhood, which will further concentrate on prevention and will focus on the regions and groups most affected by the epidemics.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, in the United Kingdom, we have 80 000 people living with HIV and, as the Commissioner has said, 1 in 3 of those is undiagnosed.
The ECDC shows new cases of HIV infection doubled between 1999 and 2006.
Miguel Angel Martínez and Commissioner Vassiliou also participated and were actively engaged in it.
Within the European Union alone, 215 000 people were newly infected with HIV in the last 10 years.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, ever since I had the honour of drafting the report on combating HIV/AIDS within the EU and neighbouring countries, I have been very committed to this issue, with all its implications and ramifications, of people living with HIV.
I am aware that the Commission is planning to bring forward a new communication on combating HIV in the EU and the neighbourhood and also that Commissioner Vassiliou confirmed her personal commitment to take further action in this field.
This means that today, we have a greater risk of coming into contact with people with the HIV virus than in the past, because the number of HIV-positive survivors is increasing.
The cumulative number of HIV infections reported in the same period was 4 780.
It is a late-night debate on an issue that actually affects every single one of us every single minute of every single day.
Mrs McGuinness said, very pertinently, that we must not forget what happened during the 1980s.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I took part in a conference either at the beginning of this week or last week - sometimes I am probably like you these days, a bit lost in time.
In one year alone, they committed between EUR 80 million and EUR 90 million and this is, of course, doubled because we commit the other half.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 November 2008.
