On behalf of all of us – on behalf of the European Parliament – I immediately expressed the emotion we felt as a result of this attack to the Jordanian authorities and I asked them to communicate our condolences to the families of the victims.
Terrorist attacks also take place in Casablanca and in Jordan.
This issue will certainly be on the agenda and will figure in the debates that we will hold in Rabat on 20 and 21 November, at the extraordinary meeting of the APEM, and also in Barcelona, on the 27th and 28th, at the Summit of Heads of State or Government.
The proposal is that we first hold the debate on the situation in Iraq, in the presence of Lord Bach, and then the joint debate on climate change.
This change to the agenda would allow Mrs Beckett, the Minister responsible for this issue, to be present in the House. &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to express my concern at the comments recently made by the EU Commissioner for Trade, Peter&#160;Mandelson, regarding the negotiations taking place under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation.
Amongst other things, Commissioner&#160;Mandelson said at this meeting that the European Union must make concessions to other countries during the WTO negotiations, since on balance the European Union would gain more from exporting industrial goods than it would lose from reducing protection for agriculture.
What this may mean is that the Commissioner wishes to sacrifice the interests of EU agriculture during the December summit in Hong Kong, in favour of nebulous gains in other fields.
If his ideas were put into practice, around 1.2&#160;million jobs could be lost in the EU in the agricultural and related sectors.
I shall do so the very next time I have the opportunity to speak to him. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to refer briefly to the recent riots by young people in the French suburbs, a matter which I believe concerns every European country.
Children are the future of our societies and it is only logical to wonder why these young people are being abandoned.
Furthermore, steps must be taken to improve safety at work, an issue that is as important in Spain as it is in other EU countries, so that tragedies of this nature can be prevented in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I shall speak about the same matter that was addressed just now by our fellow Member, Mr&#160;Sifunakis, but I shall do so a slightly different way.
We obviously do not have the same view on the events taking place in France, but the extraordinary thing is that it is not possible to talk about them in this Parliament.
There is a legislative vacuum, in my country at least, and material can circulate freely on the Internet from one person to another.
This is therefore a tragic situation, and I believe that, even if our ad hoc delegation is completely up to speed with the situation and is preparing to support both the alternative summit and civil society in Tunisia, we perhaps also ought to make the Council sit up and take note of the situation in Tunisia, by specifically calling for the Council urgently to gather together an Association Council enabling us to assess the agreement that links us to this country which, without a shadow of a doubt, is more and more disappointing each day. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Russia’s announcement of its decision to ban the import of meat and certain meat products from Poland as of 10&#160;November, and to ban the import of plant products as of 14&#160;November, is a source of great concern for Polish farmers and food producers.
Since Poland joined the European Union, Polish farmers have endured almost nothing but losses.
If the former is the case, then I would like to ask what measures will be taken to protect Polish agriculture, which is an integral part of the agricultural market in the EU as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank you for visiting the Scottish Parliament last week.
I have sent two letters to the Pakistani authorities in relation to the issues you have mentioned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to inform the House, and for that matter the Commission, that the new Ambassador of the United States of America to the European Union, Mr Boyden Gray, is a lawyer with a special interest in public finance.
While I am on my feet, I should also like to point out that not a single word on EU fraud and corruption published last month has yet been challenged or refuted. &#160;&#160; In its October session, Parliament discussed Eva Klamt’s report on the EU approach to managing economic migration.
Parliament voted to reject an amendment motion committing the European Parliament to the view that measures dealing with economic migration cannot be adopted until all citizens of the European Union have been guaranteed equal rights in respect of free movement.
For citizens of the new Member States this means that the European labour market will be more accessible to migrants from third countries, who will enjoy a more favourable position than the citizens of new Member States.
This parliamentary decision has met with a particularly negative response in the new Member States.
All available studies indicate that labour markets have not been flooded with workers from the new Member States, and that the economic effects have all been on the positive side.
Nevertheless, instead of shortening the transition periods, Parliament has taken a decision that I consider to be extremely disturbing, since it exacerbates discrimination against citizens of the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am very concerned about the fate of Mr&#160;Labouani, who was recently arrested in Damascus upon disembarking from the flight that had brought him back from a trip to Europe and the United States.
He served his full sentence, namely three years in prison.
Out of consideration for this kind of democratic opposition in Syria, I should therefore like our Parliament to stand behind Mr&#160;Labouani and you, Mr&#160;President, to write a letter, for example to the Syrian authorities, in order to draw attention to our concern and our disagreement. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs De Keyser.
We shall do so as soon as we can examine the facts you refer to. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are states or quasi-states defined as ‘non-democracies’ or dictatorships with regimes unauthorised by the people’s free will.
One could call these regimes ‘illegal’ when considered in the light of values shared by free nations in democracies.
Nowadays, tyrannies also exist in Cuba, Iran and Belarus.
In the latter country, a neighbour of Russia, the moves made by an increasingly authoritarian state against its citizens are still defined as being made in a court of law. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the history of Europe since World War II has been marked by singular events that have underpinned European unity, and that today form part of the moral and political foundations upon which the European Union is based.
They would be right to feel that the social equilibrium has been undermined, and that any communication or movement betweeen the different sections of society and ethnic groups has ceased.
Her hope has been shattered by Israel’s continued intransigence in refusing to allow the economic development of Gaza by the free flow of people and goods into Egypt from the Gaza Strip via the Rafah crossing and the refusal to allow the development of an airport or a port.
Israel must be persuaded by Europe that frustrating the economic development of Gaza is counterproductive for Israel’s own security; it should also, in my view, be counterproductive for Israel’s trade relations with Europe.
I would urge you to impress on the Commission and the Council that Israel must be persuaded to end its veto on the development of the Gaza Strip. &#160;&#160; In its Accession Treaty, the Slovak Republic made a commitment to decommissioning – and I stress the word ‘decommissioning’ – two reactors of the V1 nuclear power plant at Jaslovske Bohunice.
Decommissioning costs were calculated on the basis of data from 2000, according to which the actual costs were expected to reach EUR&#160;750&#160;million.
I would urge my esteemed colleagues to consider this matter carefully and to lend their support in voting for the sum of EUR&#160;400 million&#160;proposed by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is an urgent need to guarantee constitutional rights to 18&#160;305 citizens of the former Yugoslavia, who were unlawfully erased from the register of the inhabitants of the newly independent Slovenia in 1992.
When he lost his rights of domicile in Slovenia, he settled in Germany, where he lived and worked for 12&#160;years.
Owing to regularisation of the situation, the German authorities recently deported him to Kosovo, a country he left 20&#160;years ago.
Research is, of course, an area where it makes sense for all our Member States to pool their resources: to have a common programme is much more effective.
Respiratory health problems are Europe’s second biggest killer, accounting for one in four deaths.
Whilst the violence was more limited in its extent than in France, where several people were killed, the politically correct left still prevents us from using the term riffraff or scum – in French – and would prefer to shoot the messenger than address the problem in an environment without any taboos.
No doubt it was also disadvantaged young people who kicked Jean-Jacques Lechenadec to death, but the policeman who protected citizens and property from looters risks being put in prison.
Mr President, on 13&#160;July, Parliament adopted a very clear resolution on the situation in Ethiopia.
I call on you to write to the Ethiopian Government and European governments, drawing their attention to the fact that it is impossible to conduct ‘business as usual’ with a country that is under repression and in which elected opposition leaders are incarcerated. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the European Commission has written to the Swedish Government and asked it to intervene in the work of the Supreme Court.
I think that this is a serious attack on our constitutional principle.
It would therefore be helpful if Parliament could explain to the Commission that it too must follow the ground rules in each country.
If the Commission now calls on our government to influence the Supreme Court, this would damage our constitution and the ways in which our country and our democracy operate.
This practice of social dumping is wholly unacceptable and the European Union has a responsibility to protect the rights of all workers, including seafarers who work European waters.
Irish Ferries must honour its agreements with workers and trade unions in the company.
There is a real fear that what is happening at the WTO will mean the death knell for many farmers, not just in Ireland, but throughout the European Union.
And I would suggest that the EU should only import food produced under the standards it demands of its own producers, and not accept lower standards in relation to animal welfare, food safety and the environment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you very much for the speaking time I have been given, but are you aware that, since 1999, five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor have been held in prison in Libya?
We have often brought up this issue within the European Parliament but we really need to participate in any possible moves to free these people, who are victims of a policy that is completely beyond their and our understanding, in the same way that we need to try to help the Libyan children who have been contaminated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week was the 16th anniversary of the end of the division of Germany.
I wish to hand this flag to you, Mr President, and request that you send it to the Turkish premier telling him that our patience has run out and that he must, without further delay or excuses, get his occupation troops off Cypriot European Union soil. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Matsakis, but you will understand that I am not going to send the flag to the Turkish Prime Minister.
You may do so directly if you wish. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this House frequently and properly raises its voice in support of the victims of terrorism.
I call on this House and the Justice Commissioner to speak out against this wretched legislation. &#160;&#160; During the last year, the population in some new EU States has decreased to an alarming extent, most of all in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia as a result of emigration to the old EU States.
We need to develop a system for the registration of young specialists working permanently in other EU states and establish fair ‘rules of the game’.
Debates on globalisation and its impact are high on the agenda, both in the European Union and on a global scale.
I am delighted that Parliament has lent its support to the initiatives the Commission has proposed and developed with a view to strengthening the social dimension of globalisation.
The Commission has adopted a proactive approach in order to help ensure that the benefits of globalisation are shared more widely, and to reverse its negative effects.
The European Commission backed the talks held by the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalisation, which was established by the International Labour Organisation.
Since that time, these proposals have gained wide support, especially among the members of the European Council, the Council of Ministers, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
I would remind the House that the Commission played a part in the preparations for this summit, in particular by acting as a coordinator at EU level, and by making use of its contacts within the UN and the UN’s specialised agencies, such as the International Labour Organisation.
The UN summit’s final declaration makes express reference to fair globalisation and decent work on the basis of fundamental social rights.
This UN backing is of crucial importance for the European Union’s external actions in all areas, whether in terms of enhancing our cooperation with the International Labour Organisation and other international organisations, or in terms of bilateral cooperation with other regions and countries. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you very much.
The greatest challenge we face in our common future is that of how we in Europe can help make globalisation a real opportunity for social progress in the developing countries.
I am concerned if we cannot stand united in the world in order to fight for social justice and social progress in the developing countries.
I am, moreover, concerned on behalf of India, Africa and China and on behalf of all the developing countries if we cannot stand together in order to keep to this objective, for if we cannot maintain the objective of greater social progress and justice, the whole world, including Europe, will lose out.
I have focused on three main issues in my speech.
Firstly, we cannot promote greater flexibility without providing our workers and children and women with greater social protection in exchange.
Secondly, Europe must not compete in terms of social dumping.
Thirdly, Europe must have a role as the world’s social conscience in relation to development, the environment and employees’ rights.
I should, however, like the European institutions and the national authorities also to give some thought of their own to the matter, using the actual conditions in the Member States as a starting point.
The social dimension of globalisation requires us to adapt the structures of society to the commitments made, but without for all that sacrificing what underpins society.
Consequently, all our efforts should be aimed at ensuring that all those men and women who are today excluded from progress because of unfettered globalisation can hold on to, or regain, their dignity.
My second remark relates to one of the greatest challenges of globalisation: poverty.
Last month, on 17 October, we commemorated the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty.
My third point relates to the contribution of women to this debate.
The Lisbon Strategy anticipates that at least 60% of women will participate in the labour market in 2010.
I encourage the services of the European Commission together with the Member States to recognise the work done by women that is not yet officially recognised, and to do so irrespective of the social status of these women.
This also forms part of the responses to the social challenge of globalisation. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, thank you for giving me the floor.
I should like to begin by saying thank you to the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Brejc, for his work on the report on the social dimension of globalisation and for cooperating with us so constructively in this connection.
It is just that the advantages are not distributed equally across all countries and all groups in society.
I am therefore pleased that the report focuses on, and gives rise to a debate about, the social aspect of globalisation.
It is precisely in this area that the EU can play an important role.
The second answer to the challenges of globalisation is that the EU must increase and promote the use of the social dialogue in both the EU and the rest of the world.
Close cooperation between the two sides of industry can facilitate restructuring, just as increased information can reduce the fear of globalisation.
In the rest of the world, the social dialogue will mean that labour market conditions are improved, for the EU also has an obligation to bring about social progress throughout the world.
This is especially true in the case of those countries that are making insufficient progress in democratic and economic terms.
The European Union should support civil society building in all the countries with which it cooperates, and particularly in developing countries.
The second issue I should like to highlight is the role the European Union must play in monitoring globalisation and promoting its social dimension.
At the same time, however, we are all aware of the significant social risks it poses.
Let me say something else about the WTO.
This is another area in which the EU must bring much more influence to bear. &#160;&#160; . – We are all aware that the process of neoliberal globalisation is serving to exacerbate economic and social inequality and to widen the gulf between rich and poor.
It is also exacerbating environmental imbalances, both between different countries and within individual countries, as demonstrated by the UN’s figures and reports.
Accordingly, the EU, within the framework of the World Trade Organisation and GATT, must not give precedence to liberalising services. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the concept of globalisation is not new, it was not introduced recently.
The third countries took our factories and we get their inhabitants.
However, these people do not have work, because the factory where they worked left for North Africa or the Balkans.
Our role, our duty and our responsibility, be it in world trade or in the United Nations, or even within our own development aid actions, should be to ensure, first and foremost, that when we speak about globalisation we place people at the centre of the debate.
That can only be achieved if we invest in the people themselves. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, this report states that the European Union can make a significant contribution to the process of globalisation by developing its social model and promoting it internationally.
You will thus assess the tangible and visible consequences of the extreme ultraliberal, ultra-internationalist and ultra-immigrationist economic policy carried out for the past 25 years by the European institutions and the Member States, with France at the helm.
Your social model of integration is, in fact, an out-and-out model of disintegration: economic and industrial disintegration, social disintegration, cultural disintegration and institutional disintegration.
In addition to businesses relocating to countries with low social costs linked to production, the populations of poor countries are relocating to countries with high levels of social protection.
Your economic globalisation is, in fact, globalisation of social dumping and of migration.
Today we have to tolerate not only the rioters in our suburbs, but also the economic looters plundering our industries, combined with the political and institutional bandits pillaging our national identities, our national units, our sovereignties and our values of civilisation.
Enforced economic and migratory globalisation will end up imposing on the people of Europe a multi-community and multi-ethnic society, positive discrimination, obligatory racial mixing and a level of social protection equal to that of Communist China.
The report being discussed today includes an account of measures relating to the social dimension of globalisation.
The report also constitutes a first response of the Commission and of the European Parliament to the dimensions of globalisation and, of course, to the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalisation, set up by the International Labour Organisation (ILO).
The Commission communication emphasises the social dimension of bilateral and regional relations within Europe which encompass bilateral and regional agreements, political dialogue at the regional level, the European Union neighbourhood policy, respect for human rights and democratisation in the third countries, migration development and so on.
I would also like to mention the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which, amongst other things, place emphasis on the cooperation policy, on ensuring that the trade policy fully underpins social progress giving developing countries access to the markets of developed countries, and on the support for a specific initiative for social progress and the transposition of good practices.
The Member States of the EU can set the good practices they have developed as an example for other parts of the world to follow and should endeavour to make the revised Lisbon Strategy a success.
To maintain the competitiveness of the European economy and social progress, we need large investments in human resources and for this reason I welcome the efforts of the Commission in that direction.
In this context, I would like to mention the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
The consultation on the Commission communication and my report has provided a fruitful ground for a number of amendments, none of which concern the social dimension of globalisation.
I would like to use this opportunity to thank the Commission for drafting an excellent communication and extend my gratitude to all my colleagues who have made an important contribution in shaping the report of the European Parliament on the social dimensions of globalisation. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to be able to speak directly after the rapporteur.
In June, my colleague Mr Brejc put together an excellent report, which was even-handed enough, concentrated on the essentials and came up with crystal-clear solutions, but its 17 compact paragraphs were suddenly inflated into 39 by the desire of certain Members on the Left of this House to introduce a whole new dimension into it, which they believed to be necessary.
I have to say that I do not agree with them!
If the subject were ‘the ecological dimension of globalisation’, then that would be all well and good and we could talk about it, but the report is about ‘the social dimension of globalisation’.
Small and medium-sized enterprises need to be better inter-connected if they are to be enabled to actively participate in a globalised economy and if new jobs are to be created, and the social partners need to be involved in all decision-making processes if the social dimension is to be strengthened. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I am grateful to my friend Mr Mann for demonstrating that we are back in step once again.
The WTO’s sixth Ministerial Conference is due to be held in Hong Kong this December, and it will be yet another of the kind at which there will be no discussion of a ban on child labour, or of the abolition of forced labour, not to mention freedom of association or the right to set up trade unions.
If you, Members of the Commission, want to take action, then I suggest that you make a start by doing what you undertook to do years ago.
To survive and prosper, a globalised economy needs a more solid foundation; it must promote more extensive and more inclusive social action and must be compatible with local requirements.
Europe must look to the future with courage and cannot afford to fail the test of globalisation. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the process of so-called globalisation highlights the barbarity of capitalist development and the imperialist imposition of the choices of big business, with painful consequences on the working classes, grass-roots society and the environment.
The communication by the European Commission on the social dimension of globalisation analyses the phenomena from the point of view of the interests of big business and tries to obscure the real reasons for modern problems.
At the same time, for the new economic and social reality which is being shaped, it proposes as a strategy at regional and international level the alleged need to accept and reform the imperialist unions.
Capitalist restructurings are the answer of the European Union, with the promotion of competitiveness as their main feature.
The Lisbon Strategy and the success of its updated expression are the basic parameter of the Commission's choices and proposals in the contribution of the European Union to the process of globalisation.
The working classes and the workers in general reject the reactionary process and the course of so-called globalisation and are fighting for radical changes and grass-roots prosperity. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, this report has been prepared at a time when the residents of the European Union Member States are harbouring ever-increasing concerns about the processes caused by or imputed to globalisation.
The fact that the challenges relating to European Union development are often perceived by the public as a globalisation process is very worrying and is yet another key argument that calls for us to formulate appropriate policies in order to endow the processes of globalisation with a social dimension.
The outcome of the globalisation process will depend on the capacity of its participants to adapt in rapidly changing circumstances, and for this reason support should be given to the importance of implementing the Lisbon Strategy, as the report stresses on several occasions, so that the European Union may be able to derive maximum benefit from the globalisation process and to win public acceptance of that process in the Member States.
In my opinion, however, the report has here departed from the current reality in the European Union.
We are witnesses to the struggles here in the European Parliament on the Services Directive.
Therefore, in my view, it is actually here, in the extent of our willingness, that the greatest threats of globalisation lie hidden, since public opinion in an increasing number of European Union Member States is not ready for the challenges of competition even within the European Union itself. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, globalisation is irreversible.
Fortunately, however, it also represents a great opportunity for people from all continents, countries and regions.
The European social model, as set out in the Lisbon Strategy, should become our calling card and our leading export.
The accumulation of goods has now reached such levels that the most important task facing the world is the decision to divide these goods up fairly, while ensuring that everyone can live and work in dignity.
The outsourcing of human rights and workers’ rights must follow on the heels of the outsourcing of capital.
We should set up institutions that support the work of the WTO and that endeavour to bring a social dimension to globalisation, such as the Council for Human Development mentioned in the report. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I first want to thank my colleague, Mr&#160;Brejc, for his work on this report and for his efforts to direct it towards the really important issues.
In its present form, the report states that globalisation leads to gulfs and imbalances between countries and within societies.
It is important to state that, directly contrary to what is stated in the report, it is, in actual fact, precisely in those parts of the world not reached by globalisation that we have stagnation and poverty, for example in those parts of Africa and Asia in which free and open trade are not practised and in which people are excluded from globalisation.
It is not in developing countries, but in those countries that belong to the lost world and that are excluded from the global economy.
That is the basis on which we must proceed when making policy. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank our fellow Member, Mr&#160;Brejc, for his report.
The form of globalisation that we know today has always been presented to us as a positive phenomenon that creates wealth.
The pursuit of social globalisation has the effect of endangering social rights and creating disgraceful working practices and dangerous imbalances.
This new situation forces us no longer to view the world with the same detachment.
We have to take note of the fact that this process of liberal, non-transparent and unfettered globalisation is of concern to our fellow citizens.
Europe has to act in a coherent and credible fashion.
It has to be the main actor in a different form of globalisation. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, while I do agree with many of the views expressed in the report by our Slovene Member Mr Brejc, I am not with him every step of the way.
Secondly, we should have more to say about the Gothenbourg Summit, for that is where the economic, social and ecological triad – to which I would like to see the protection of consumers added – was set in stone, for that, in fact, is our fundamental concern.
To do so would help us and reverse the trend. &#160;&#160; Madam President, we live in a global environment and many of our political problems are tackled within a multilateral framework.
The Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative achieved moderate success in tackling debt relief for the 42&#160;poorest countries in the world, but this was only an initial effort by the developed world to tackle the problem of debt relief itself.
The European Union is the largest contributor of development aid in the world and therefore must continue to show real leadership when it comes to addressing humanitarian and development aid problems in the world.
I also believe that the WTO is the best structure to open up competition in the industrial services and trading sectors.
It is in all our interests that a multilateral framework be put in place to govern the trading relations of the 150&#160;different members of the WTO at this time.
I do not want to see a repeat of the Cancun round of WTO talks, which was a lost opportunity and, indeed, set progress back in this regard by at least two years. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, globalisation is an indisputable reality and an ongoing process.
We here also take a positive view of the global action of social organisations in order to promote honest social governance and, more importantly, in connection with the guidelines of the OECD for multinational companies, which the Commission supports.
However, its main, original meaning is the concept of the space populated by man and it reminds us of our obligation to link globalisation with compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the need for the basic labour rules of the International Labour Organisation to be mandatory.
We have five years in the European Union to achieve the Lisbon Strategy, to make Europe the first power in the knowledge economy, with respect for the environment and promoting a new social model which we can propose globally. &#160;&#160; Madam President, business people like to talk about a win-win situation, a situation where everyone stands to gain.
Instead, we should free up funds to ensure that people who lose their jobs through globalisation are given the opportunity to find a job in another sector.
We could examine how existing funds could be redirected in order to get this globalisation fund off the ground.
If we do nothing for the people who lose their jobs through globalisation, they will end up in a lose-lose situation.
The social dimension of globalisation is highly important, because globalisation brings with it change and all change is a challenge.
The original Brejc report addressed the subject sensitively and sensibly.
This means that in a small country like ours, with the thrust of a knife, suddenly we have 0.5% of our workforce losing their jobs in one single day.
About two years ago these people had read in brochures that, if we entered the European Union, God willing, we would solve all the problems related to the challenge of globalisation, they promised them what they used to call a 'new spring'.
There is therefore an urgent need to give globalisation a human face and a social dimension.
Nevertheless, I believe that it is crucially important that the European Union has decided to turn its attention to the social dimension of globalisation, and to promote it in close cooperation with the United Nations and, in particular, the International Labour Organisation.
It was with great interest that I listened to this debate, and I will also be very interested to follow developments regarding the report that has been drafted and the structure of the amendments that will be adopted. – The debate is closed.
It is debatable whether what we are seeing is globalisation or an increasing divide between richer and poorer sections of society on a global scale.
However, a detailed analysis of economic processes reveals that the poorest peoples of the world are those who are excluded from the process of globalisation, while countries that claim their share in the international division of labour have seen an increase in their national income.
Given that two of the most populous countries of the world, China and India, are among the latter, globalisation has in fact helped the majority of the world’s poor to achieve a higher standard of living.
In other words, if we want to achieve the Lisbon goals and be a part of the innovation in this area too, then we must not lag behind with the switchover.
The European Parliament therefore calls upon the Member States to give their full support to this schedule, while at the same time aiming to keep the transitional period of ‘simulcasting’ as short as possible.
The digital switchover will be a success if it is carried out in a coordinated manner.
It should initiate discussion and consultation between Member States and market players.
In this context I am also referring to the potential it offers for new pan-European services, as in the case of the transport sector, to mention only one of many examples.
In order to ensure access to these technologies for all European citizens, it may be necessary to subsidise them at national level, in accordance with Community law.
The European Parliament is confident that the December meeting of the Council will take Parliament’s views into consideration in arriving at a decision on the tasks that lie ahead. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has undertaken to accelerate the transition to digital broadcasting at EU level, and to structure this process in such a way that there is no distortion of competition.
The aim is to switch off analogue signals by the beginning of 2012 at the latest, and to ensure that the spectrum released by this switch-off is used in such a way that society will derive the maximum possible benefits.
Furthermore, the Commission aims to ensure that society can begin to use this spectrum for hybrid television and telecommunications services, or for services that are unrelated to radio or television broadcasting.
Spain recently brought forward the date for switching off analogue terrestrial television signals by two years, from 2012 to 2010, while Germany has brought it forward by three years, from 2010 to 2007.
Ten Member States have set a date of 2010 or earlier for switch-off, whereas a further 10 have set a date of 2012.
Five Member States, as well as Bulgaria and Romania, have not yet decided on a date for switch-off, and Poland, Ireland and Bulgaria have now indicated that they may find it difficult to achieve switch-off in 2012.
The international community’s future approach to planning should ensure that new broadcasting and non-broadcasting services can operate in the same bands.
The latter has been used as a basis for providing e-government information services to Italian citizens.
Furthermore, the development of digital radio came about thanks to a consortium set up under the aegis of an EU research programme.
Digital radio signals can now broadcast in all analogue spectrum bands, and several digital stations can be broadcast in hi-fi quality in the same spectrum that was previously used for one analogue station.
If I may, I should like to comment briefly on the motion for a resolution.
Spectrum-related issues will be a major focus of the Commission’s work in this field.
Problems relating to vertical integration and significant market power are dealt with under the regulatory framework.
I would remind the Commissioner that the Commission itself decided, in March, that the national governments should foot the bill for pilot projects, for example, but also for the purchase of set-top boxes for individual consumers.
I wonder if you should not make this more specific in the sense that you need to indicate that such financial support, or subsidy, is only possible for set-top boxes with a so-called open standard, mainly to avoid two things.
That is why it is crucial that we agree on a basic package of channels that are accessible to everyone both now and in future.
That is why, in the draft resolution adopted by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, we explicitly ask you to ensure that the new digital market will not fall within the exclusive control of one or other multinational.
I have been a Member of this House for quite some time and can remember many attempts being made at this.
Technological neutrality is a very important term where competition is concerned.
In some countries these large public institutions are finding it hard to face up to this situation.
It is unthinkable that the sick or elderly would have to give up their televisions as a source of entertainment, even though they might not always need new digital services.
Technological development is normally seen as an economic benefit and not a social or cultural one, something I have a problem with.
Our society has changed.
Consequently, our knowledge-based economy may become an economy of incomprehension, because of us, not because of young people or children. &#160;&#160; Mr President, here in this House, we have a lot to say about issues relating to technology.
It is for that reason that I welcome the resolution from the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and very much hope that we will, in future, be able to develop cooperation between it and the Committee for Culture and Education.
There is a pressing need for policy goals setting out how this is to be done, not only in terms of the technology involved, but also of cultural, social and democratic cooperation.
If you really do want to empower the Member States to do that, then issues of subsidies and of European competition law need to be resolved as a matter of urgency.
It will be apparent to the House that we take this resolution very seriously, and we urge the Commission, for the public’s sake, to do likewise. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like, in this debate, to stress what I consider to be important and what has not yet been said: the European Commission must lead the research and development activities of the new innovative services, so that we can place Europe in a position of technological leadership on a pan-European scale.
I would finally like to stress that, if the conversion is to be a success, it is very important for the Commission and the Member States to ensure two things in particular: on the one hand, that the significant digital divide in our society is closed, and on the other, that there should be no monopolies, because, if there are any, this transformation will not be possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my household is a fairly typical European household: we have a TV set in the sitting room, one in the kitchen, one in our bedroom and one for the grandchildren when they visit.
To cover all the interests in a typical household, this could require up to four or five cards.
At the same time, digital television improves access for people with special needs, such as people with impaired hearing or vision, by providing auxiliary services such as better subtitling, sound commentary and sign commentary.
I asked to make a short statement at the end because last Friday I was invited to participate in a conference held by the British regulator Ofcom under the auspices of the Presidency.
Parliament needs to pay far more attention to the issue of how radio spectrum will be allocated and managed across the European Union, because it is clearly important that we have some alignment of goals there.
Member States are already making decisions about how that digital dividend should be spent.
In the interests of creating a more active market for digital content and breaking away from some of the artificial constraints that we have at the moment in relation to national boundaries for digital content, there are certainly opportunities that we must take, but in order to do so we need to generate ideas that will encourage Member States to take advantage of them.
I therefore welcome Mrs Barsi-Pataky's initiative in the Committee on Industry, but I hope you will agree that this is just the beginning.
Each of these radical changes has had or will have a wide range of consequences, and you approached this possibility from a great many angles during the debate.
The aim is therefore to find a technical and organisational solution to the problem at hand, rather than to deal with the issue of content.
We shall do this at the level of Member States as regards compliance with European legislation, and at an international level, with particular reference to any initiatives the US authorities may decide to take in relation to this whole matter.
I can conclude by giving my personal assurance and that of the Commission that Parliament will be kept informed and engaged in dialogue at all times in relation to developments on this issue. &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Frattini, I very much appreciated your speech and in particular your assurances to the Chamber that no EU country is involved in this outrage.
Let there be no doubt: we all stand shoulder to shoulder with countries that have suffered directly from violent acts of terrorism, such as the United States, Spain, the United Kingdom, or any other.
Mr Frattini referred to the international axis, to which all EU countries are committed.
The international rules in the various conventions are clear on the circumstances of detention, and on the obligation to give prisoners a fair trial, in front of a competent, impartial and independent court.
Mr Frattini rightly praised the Council and the initiative of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
At this point, I should like to highlight two US Senate initiatives that I wholeheartedly welcome.
Let us recall that the US Congress has also published a report referring to dubious practices employed by the United States when transferring prisoners to third countries with a view to having recourse to acts of torture during interrogations.
Under no circumstances can we therefore allow such prisons to exist in Europe.
We therefore call on the Commission to carry out an investigation into these allegations as, I might add, you recently pledged to do in front of the press, Mr&#160;Frattini.
In those circumstances, if a credible newspaper and a credible human rights NGO allege that secret war-on-terror jails exist in Eastern Europe, and specifically in Poland and Romania, what do we do?
I am not impugning the good faith of the Polish and Romanian governments, but we know that secret intelligence services sometimes have their own agenda.
All our mechanisms in the EU for ensuring that human rights standards are respected are frankly inadequate: no peer review, no monitoring, no enforcement.
The EU failed to establish a common stance, let alone any joint initiatives, to press the US to release our own citizens from Guantanamo Bay.
I want you to insist that this matter be put on the agenda of the next General Affairs Council and of the summit in December.
It is a question of people who have allegedly been detained, without first having been tried, for an unspecified length of time and without any appeal whatsoever, and who are therefore in all likelihood subjected to torture and inhumane and degrading treatment.
We therefore have potential violations here of Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as potential violations of the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights.
I say ‘having’ housed, since these countries are today denying these acts of which they are accused and because the reports in question date back to 2002 and 2003.
What they are denying is taking place today could therefore be compatible with the facts presented in the reports, and particularly in the report by the Human Rights Watch, but the fact of recognising that the potential existence of such centres can constitute a violation of the Treaty on the European Union and Article 6 thereof calls for you to do more than just issue statements, Commissioner.
You say that you are leaving the matter in the hands of the Member States.
You say that you are going to examine closely the investigation expedited by the Council of Europe; I will tell you, by the way, that the European Parliament’s Subcommittee on Human Rights has already decided to invite Mr&#160;Marty as soon as his work has been handed over.
At the same time, however, I would call on the Members of the House to keep a sense of proportion during this debate.
The first of these is the attitude that the end justifies the means, and that even democratic values and human rights should be sacrificed in the fight against international terrorism.
It is undeniable that we all need to uphold not only the most elementary human rights but also the principles underlying all civil society and all relationships between nations.
The president of the USA is today threatening to veto the bill adopted by the American Senate in order to impose what was – until a few years ago at least – the obvious; in other words, the fact that international law must be applied to persons arrested by the United States anywhere in the world.
All this in 2005, by a large country, by a country with a long democratic tradition, by a country which insists every year in publishing a report on human rights and lambasting other states around the world for violating them.
The policy of the USA affects us all, irrespective of whether these centres are located on European territory.
Thirdly, have the USA sent people snatched from Europe to these detention centres?
To see it on European soil, to see centuries of civilisation and moral progress in the fight against crime, or, in this case, against terrorism, renounced is profoundly repugnant to us.
You must take the appropriate measures and also demand that the Council do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for a secret service, the CIA is in the news an awful lot.
In the first case, the European countries involved are infuriated, but in the second case, they are partly to blame.
I want you to talk to members of parliament, and I want to hear you say that, if those statements are true, there has been a contravention of Article 6, at which point an Article 7 procedure is supposed to kick into effect.
A few moments ago, a Polish Member of this House rightly said that such matters should also be discussed at national level, and I think that we should all go back to our sister parties at national level, for this is something that must be broached with them too.
If secret prisons are located in one of the current or future EU Member States, or in states that benefit from our neighbourhood policy, then that is a stain on the European claims of democratic rule of law and protection of human rights.
The European Union must check out for itself whether there is an American network of secret prisons and whether some of them are located in Europe.
Instead of simply denying their existence, we must get to the bottom of this matter. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Czarnecki and Commissioner&#160;Frattini have already referred to the fact that the Polish Government has denied allegations that camps exist in Poland.
Even if a CIA-owned Boeing had in fact landed there in 2003, however, it would not constitute any kind of proof that such camps existed or still exist in my country.
Logically speaking, I would be astonished if the Americans had decided to use an EU Member State for this purpose, thus forcing the country in question to violate the Treaties and EU legislation, instead of using American military bases or countries where freedom of the media really is non-existent or limited.
If proven, these allegations are serious and present us with a difficult problem – the need to find the delicate balance between protecting citizens’ rights and combating terrorism.
We need to protect the rights of citizens and to use all available means to combat terrorism, at the very time when we discover that European countries have become the CIA’s own back yard.
I call on you to wake up, perform the duties of your office and take responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last Friday Condoleezza Rice, the US Secretary of State, ordered the highest level enquiry into the leaks to the Washington Post and Human Rights Watch.
newspaper and other bodies are repeating these allegations.
Mr Lambrinidis said we already knew that the CIA operated black sites and torture centres in other parts of the world.
We want to know if it is happening in the European Union.
We want to know if it is happening in the candidate countries.
As you said, Commissioner, it is the most serious breach of treaty obligations.
We may be fighting terrorism, but we cannot do so with arms that are not democratic.
We understand why US organisations and institutions, including the CIA, are being closely protected, especially in Eastern Europe, where so much hope for change has been pinned on the United States.
However, not placing limits on the means we employ makes for a terrible contradiction, since democracy and transparency are fundamental to the maintenance of law and order and to democracy itself.
I am worried that, in the name of combating international terrorism, we are on the brink of a new Middle Ages.
We are on the brink of a direct threat to democratic culture in Europe and, more importantly, the European governments and European institutions cannot remain impassive.
I wish to highlight in particular the direct reaction of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
What needs to be undertaken by the European Commission and by Mr Barroso, by Mr Frattini and by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, as the competent Commissioner for transatlantic relations, is an investigation in all directions, in order to ascertain where, by whom, how and when these black places were created.
The European Union has a political and moral obligation to cooperate with the American Congress.
The promotion of transatlantic relations is inseparably bound up with respect for democratic values and the principles of international law.
I should like to make two points in this respect.
There is a great deal of public opposition to secret CIA prisons and the interrogation methods used in detention centres for suspected terrorists.
This attitude is shared by many Republican politicians in the USA, as evidenced by Senator John McCain’s recent initiative to abolish the use of torture or methods akin to torture in such centres.
My second point relates to the possibility that secret CIA detention centres are located in EU Member States or in countries that will join the EU in the near future.
There is unanimity on the basic principle of the European Union, namely total respect for the life and dignity of every individual.
Therefore, everyone here in Parliament agrees with the view that, if the allegations prove to be true, we shall be faced – as I have already said, but it is worth repeating – with a serious breach of the Treaty on European Union, a violation which, if it were confirmed and proven, could lead, as you all know, to the application of serious political sanctions against a Member State of the European Union.
In Italy, as everyone is aware, an investigation is in progress into certain serious allegations of unlawful acts committed in Italy by CIA agents, which, if proven, would constitute a serious crime.
Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that legal means must be used if they give us every opportunity to achieve the result that we, both Commission and Parliament, are seeking.
I refer, in particular, to the United States Congress and Senate, which have decided to conduct investigations, the results of which could be passed on to the European Commission.
However, I believe that the indignation we all rightly feel at these serious crimes – these absolutely disgraceful situations – will not suffice to alter the rules of the Treaties.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission statement on banana import arrangements. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I should like to thank you for this opportunity to share with you our current thinking on the new import regime for bananas.
The current import regime for bananas was agreed at Doha in 2001.
The aim has always been to ensure a neutral modification of the import regime with a most-favoured-nation tariff that provides equivalent market access conditions to let in American suppliers – as the current quota regime does – and keeps an equivalent level of ACP preference.
Since then, since the new Commission took office, both you and your colleagues and the Commissioner for Trade have sought to reach an agreement.
Secondly, what are the different scenarios you are evaluating?
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate provides evidence of how important socio-environmental criteria are in the argument about international trade, and how important it is that the Commission should bring these quality criteria into the WTO negotiations.
What I would welcome from you – and I am also thinking of sugar here – is that this debate should go forward in the European Union, and that, instead of liberalisation being simply proposed as a quantative solution while policy and social and environmental concerns are disregarded, the Commission, as an advocate for these quality criteria, should speak up clearly and ensure that social, labour, and environmental concerns should be brought to bear on global trade relationships and be taken into account in them.
Since the 1980s, cooperatives of small farmers in the developing world and non-commercial import organisations in Europe have struck up good working relations.
The key factor is not the country of origin, but the method of production that protects man and the environment.
Already the Windward Isles report that 24&#160;000 small producers have dropped to 7&#160;000 under dollar-country pressure.
Rather that than the arid scratchings of the bureaucratic Brussels pen-pusher. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the 2001 agreement with the United States and the Latin American countries, to which the Commissioner referred earlier, and which we thought could put an end to the banana war, now brings with it a radical change to the Community import regime from January 2006, a change that the European sector will have to face in a situation of great uncertainty.
The reality – as others have said – is that, for instance in the Windward Islands, bananas provide employment for over a third of the working population and account for 50 to 70% of export earnings.
As you suggested, Commissioner, preferences for countries such the Windward Islands harm no one and are not aimed at damaging the trade of Latin American exporters or of any other exporters.
Finally, I fear that bananas and sugar will be well and truly on the agenda in Hong Kong as far as the ACP countries are concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for Agriculture for what she has said.
Until last year, the Peoples’ Party was in power in Spain and until a few months ago, before its expulsion by the Head of the Government, it was in power in the Canary Islands.
It is quite right that Honduras has put bananas on the agenda for the Hong Kong ministerial conference.
As a number of speakers have mentioned, it is clear that we have to find a balance on this very delicate issue.
Discussions are taking place between the Commission, the services concerned and the Member State representatives, and in the context of CEIOPS.
Reading between the lines, you will also note our concern that Member States are not taking implementation of the directive seriously.
We also urge you to make an important issue of the Pensions Directive – because it is a separate issue specifically concerning financial markets and social policy – particularly where respect for national, social and labour laws are at stake and where host country rules, rather than the country of origin principle, are prevalent.
A very important point for me, not just as spokesperson for the PSE Group, but also as a Dutch delegate, is my concern over developments in occupational pension schemes due not only to financial market developments but also to regulatory developments: there is a trend to move from defined benefit to defined contribution systems.
That is not possible in the Netherlands because we have collective systems and obligatory systems in most cases, and we are very attached to them.
There are two sides to this directive: one has to do with the internal market, which the directive makes stronger for all service providers in the field of occupational retirement provision, and the other has to do with social security for workers, with more dialogue between employers and workers when occupational retirement schemes are set up and in the course of their further development.
The internal market and the financial services sector still offer potential.
Occupational retirement provision, which involves more of the market at the same time as social security – is an essential precondition for workers’ mobility and flexibility, as well as for the securing of our systems of provision for old age and of securing a comfortable old age in a society in which people live for longer and longer.
From your speeches and from the facts, we know that, to date, only six Member States have notified their transposition measures; six more have done so in part and 13 are unaccounted for.
However, it is too early to assess whether the origin of those problems lies in the formulation of the legislative proposal as adopted by the European Parliament and the Council, or just in different interpretations in the various Member States.
In 2006, a first meeting will be organised to discuss further some of the issues which have been identified as problematic and essential during the examination of the national implementing measures.
In response, sponsoring undertakings and Member States’ supervisory authorities employed different solutions: increased contributions, top-up payments, reduced indexation of pension rights, changes in the pension schemes’ rules and the closure of schemes to new entrants.
Sponsoring undertakings have realised the need to achieve improved cost control and more stable earnings in order to match their pension promises.
The Commission could be of help to Member States by ensuring that the European regulatory framework for financial services supports the emergence of secure market-driven responses to retirement financing.
Other initiatives that aim at improving European pension provision include the recently adopted proposal for a directive on improving the portability of supplementary pension rights, and the ongoing infringement cases in the field of equal tax treatment of pension contributions. &#160;&#160; .
A single market for occupational retirement provision organised on a European scale would mean more mobility for workers, and that is precisely what they want.
Both those entitled to benefits and those actually in receipt of them must be entitled to receive information on the way in which their scheme’s capital is invested or on the state of the stock market.
Article&#160;9 of the directive requires that members be given sufficient information on risks.
It is not only the demographics that are against the old economies of western Europe, but also the so-called social model.
In my own constituency there is a company called Ballast Nedam which has simply abandoned its pensioners in a most disgraceful way and set up a new company to avoid its responsibilities.
Of course, it must be emphasised that they only provide a retirement income in the case of workers, creating a degree of discrimination against those who do not have stable employment or who work part time.
On the basis of these characteristics and the development of the application of the legislation to the Member States, it is advisable for the directive to be promoted in all the Member States, but to become more flexible.
