Addressing the challenge of water scarcity and droughts in the European Union (debate) The next item is the report by Richard Seeber, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on addressing the challenge of water scarcity and droughts in the European Union.
Mr President, I would like first to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the Commission for their excellent cooperation on the preparation of this report.
Already in 2007, a third of Europeans lived in regions in which water resources were limited, according to the European Environment Agency.
The EU economy suffered losses of approximately EUR 8.7 billion in the drought of 2003.
Apart from the general impairment of human health, approximately 35 000 people in Europe died as a result of the heatwave in 2003.
The average consumption in the EU fluctuates between 100 and 400 litres, although in fact 80 litres per person per day should be enough for a European standard of living.
The Commission has already addressed the topic of water in several directives, such as those on bathing water, drinking water, floods, environmental quality standards for water, etc.
The communication that the Commission has now laid before us represents an important step in the right direction, but essential improvement measures are imperative.
Mutual solidarity between the Member States as regards their water resources does not, however, mean that their sovereignty for making decisions about their water resources has to be abolished.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, water scarcity and drought represent a major global problem and it is clear that climate change will aggravate the situation and result in serious water scarcity.
The frequency and intensity of droughts in the European Union have dramatically increased over the past 30 years, and over 100 million people and almost one third of the EU were affected in 2003.
Nor was this an isolated occurrence: 2008 is the third consecutive drought year in Cyprus.
I am glad that the European Parliament has taken this opportunity to send out a clear message that it is important to tackle this problem.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that your report welcomes the Commission communication and supports the proposed first set of policy options for action.
For this reason, this aspect needs to be taken into account in the future cohesion policy, using the necessary budgetary measures and instruments in order to do so.
I am pleased that this draft incorporates some of the ideas included in the opinion for which I was the draftsman in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, in favour of agricultural activity, for example in highlighting the role that farmers play in the sustainable management of available resources.
It also includes a reference to droughts and water scarcity as factors that push up the prices of raw materials, an aspect which, in the current climate, I think it is very important to highlight, so that we keep in mind not only the environmental dimension of this problem, but also some of its most important economic consequences.
I would personally like to make it clear that I will continue to advocate the establishment of this fund, an idea that I will propose to Parliament again when the Commission produces its planned communication on adaptation to climate change in the next few months.
on behalf of the PPE-DE group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
But we must all contribute more in support of efficient agriculture practices and overarching water management.
The measures we have to take to rationalise the use of water by the general population are important too.
On behalf of my group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
The 2003 drought affected more than 100 million people and a third of the EU's territory, and cost the European economy EUR 8.7 million.
The European Union must take urgent measures to resolve the two issues of excessive water consumption and water wastage.
According to European Environment Agency data, there is huge potential for water saving in Europe.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the lively debates that we have had recently about energy show that energy is a valuable asset, a basic need.
This report also addresses the issue of problems arising from the scarcity of water and drought, problems that are both immediate and long term in the context of climate change.
I would like to point out that it is important to share good practices, since Europe is affected to varying degrees by the scarcity of water, or drought, and therefore the practical experience of all regions is crucial if we are to avoid these phenomena or resolve them.
In fact, Parliament attaches a great deal of importance to this issue of water quality, through texts such as environmental quality standards or the current debate on pesticides.
To give just one example, in the United Kingdom privatisation led to a sudden sharp increase in prices and in the number of households having their water supplies cut off.
Therefore, when it comes to water, a resource essential to life, we must become more aware and responsive, but this must on no account take the form of forcing benefits of dubious value on all Member States in typical EU style. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
It is important to stress that we must maintain the principle of subsidiarity in the area of water management.
As well as regional and local authorities we have to keep civilian organisations in mind, too.
They are an important factor in education and publicity campaigns and this role should be supported in the future.
I would like to thank Mr Seeber for all the work he has put into his report, and to thank you for your attention. (ES) Mr President, I welcome the fact that there is a document on water, although I think that, unfortunately, this document, because of climate change issues, has been reduced to a partial and very specific view of the subject, which is water saving .
What is important is for the world to continue to be sustainable, thinking about people and the economy. (ES) Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the Commission for finally presenting a document on the problem of drought and water scarcity, which we have been calling for in Parliament for some time now.
Especially having seen how cases of major floods have been dealt with in a way that we felt was right and sufficient, but it has always been forgotten that in other places drought is becoming a structural problem and that the problem of water scarcity has not only social effects but also economic effects, and has an even greater impact on all aspects of sustainability.
I must congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Seeber, on his excellent work, and also thank him for his active participation in and presence at the debates for European Environment Day at the International Expo 2008 in my city, Zaragoza.
I also have to say that we now know that water scarcity problems are very much linked with the cycle of the fight against climate change, as we know that in that cycle, unrestrained deforestation and urban development are contributing to growing water scarcity, and therefore the authorities concerned need to pay heed to water-related considerations in their land-use planning, especially in connection with the development of economic activities in increasingly sensitive river basins.
As Mr Seeber's report rightly acknowledges, there are losses of up to 50% in cities and 20% water losses in Europe in general.
We therefore welcome the proposals to keep the European Drought Observatory within the framework of the European Environment Agency and for a network of cities to encourage sustainable water use. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, including the topic of water in all policy areas and developing a comprehensive plan for dealing with the subject is a real challenge that must be tackled successfully, as this debate has already very clearly shown.
I would like to thank the rapporteur. (SK) Water is life.
Mr President, I should like to thank Richard Seeber for his commitment in this most important area.
In fact the contents of Article 9 of the Water Framework Directive, to which I would like to draw attention tonight, were a result of an amendment I made to the original draft proposal.
I would like an assurance from the Commission that any proposals regarding water pricing or compulsory water metering, if it should arise, would be expressed in accordance with Article 9 of the Water Framework Directive, which allows for the continuation of the established Irish practice of not charging domestic householders for domestic usage.
I would like to amend Esther Herranz García's proposal in that we do not need a common European position on floods but on water management, as inland inundations and floods cause as big a problem as drought, and those on the committee know only too well that there is no single European risk management basis here.
It is in this context that the problem of drought has to be tackled, and not just in Mediterranean countries.
In Europe itself, at least 20% of resources are wasted because of inefficient management.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate on water management and water-related problems, which has highlighted many varied points of view.
The water-saving potential in Europe is huge: 33% in households and 43% in agriculture.
The report also emphasises the link between climate change, water scarcity and drought and the need to take water-related issues into account in other policies, such as land-use planning, where poor decisions in some cases have aggravated the problem in the past.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate has demonstrated clearly that water management is a complex issue and I cannot but agree with your opinion that this issue must be streamlined in all policies and that its facets are also extremely significant at international level.
Everyone must realise - and we must raise awareness of this in the political and economic world, but also amongst citizens - that water is not an infinite resource.
in writing. - (RO) Climate change can have an irreversible effect on all the planet's water resources and therefore it is essential to adapt all aspects of socio-economic life to counteracting the effects of water shortage.
The last drought, in 2007, affected over 80% of the homesteads from my region, Ialomiţa.
Member States must be careful with sensitive river basins where there is a water shortage but they must be especially careful when they authorise economic activities in those sensitive areas.
I also believe that both the Commission and the Member States must favour the emergence in Europe of a culture based on water saving and on management rules acquired through education.
in writing. - (RO) Water scarcity and droughts have become issues of major importance both in the European Union and at a global level, especially in the context of climate change, which has aggravated this situation.
