Employment Policy Guidelines for Member States (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Van Lancker, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States PART V - C6-0031/2008 -.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's December 2007 Strategic Report has sent a very positive message, which received the support of the European Council at its spring meeting in March 2008.
It is my belief that a few too many amendments have been made to details in the report, but nevertheless, Commissioner, the message must be clear: this European Parliament will not accept 'business as usual' on the European Employment Strategy.
Clearly, more jobs have been created, but for that reason they have not always been better jobs.
I hope, therefore, that all the Member States of the European Union will transpose and apply the European legislation consistently, and I also hope, Commissioner, that the Commission will soon - within a few months, maybe even within a few weeks - present us with an ambitious social agenda.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, when Anne Van Lancker began working on the European Parliament's response, she planned to concentrate on a few important points, since we knew that both the Commission and the Council would propose that the guidelines should not be amended at all.
I think that it would have been better to concentrate on what Mrs Van Lancker said - that we clearly integrate the social dimension, a policy for all those who are outside the labour market and have no share in prosperity.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we in the group of the Greens/ European Free Alliance warmly welcome Mrs Van Lancker's report because it would be fatal if the Council were to announce full-bodied reforms in employment policy guidelines for 2008 and then say: actually, we don't want a reform!
The Van Lancker report, however, clearly sets the right priorities.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the common employment policy for Member States is undergoing a test.
Under the Lisbon Strategy, these programmes above all envisage investment in people and in their education, and better chances in the job market.
A rise in employment by 3.6 million people in 2007 and an anticipated rise in employment by 4.5 million in 2008-2009 is the perceptible result of this policy.
This means that promoting an approach to work that matches the human life cycle, concern for young people not completing their education and for adapting work conditions to family needs, and especially to parental duties, eliminating discrimination in the workplace, particularly in the scope of access to training and other forms of skill refinement, and gradually restricting occupational activity among older people should in future constitute the basis for action in this sphere.
The future, the outcome of the flexibility concept, the new social experience and the citizens of the European Union will all decide, in the end, which of us is closer to the truth in searching for, and implementing, the social Europe project.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the conclusion of this strategic report on the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs is that the Lisbon Strategy is working.
Six million young people in the EU leave school early and 16% of the total EU population are poor or at risk of poverty.
Hopefully in this Parliament we will also specifically look at the issue of carers. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, while we are pleased about the 6.5 million new jobs that have been created in the last two years, we should not remain silent about the fact that 4 out of 10 employees have in the meantime been living in precarious employment relationships.
Meanwhile, 78 million Europeans have to live on the poverty line with temporary work, 1-euro jobs and mini-jobs.
While we can be pleased about a net increase in employment figures in the light of these facts, it is in my view a mockery for every individual among the millions of unemployed and anyone who, despite doing honest work, has to live in poverty. (DE) Mr President, because of globalisation our living and working conditions are changing so rapidly that many citizens are losing track of things.
The flexicurity concept is still not sufficiently understood.
Special attention should be given to the fact that, at present, 78 million citizens of the European Union are poor or exposed to the risk of poverty, and 6 million young people leave school.
We, as European socialists, want to provide equal chances to all citizens for a decent living, for strengthening social cohesion.
The implementation of these guidelines will contribute to the increase in the number of safer and better paid jobs, to guaranteeing adequate social protection by access to quality social services, promoting active social integration for all the European Union citizens for the purpose of fighting poverty and social exclusion.
The Lisbon Agenda has started to bear fruit.
This is a good thing, although we have probably focused too little on social inclusion in its activity.
The Lisbon Agenda requires a strengthening of social measures.
Allow me also to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. (DE) Mr President, the Commission refers to the fact that as a result of employment policies agreed with the Member States in the last two years, 6.5 million jobs have been created.
The report on poverty published in Germany yesterday has also clearly shown that more and more employees need benefits on top of their earned income in order not to slide into poverty and that the disparity between those on high incomes and those who draw as good as no income is becoming ever larger.
It is therefore urgently necessary for the European Union's employment strategy to become much more strongly and practically involved in combating social exclusion and poverty, creating good jobs, increasing income and providing social protection for the employed.
The rapporteur admits that EU unemployment reached 8.9% in 2005.
My advice is to offer fewer pages and more respect for what has been achieved in the past decades, especially in the developed countries of the European Union. (SV) Mr President, this report is imbued with the spirit of the values which should govern a free labour market.
If we want greater productivity, quality jobs and greater skills, we need to continue to drive forward the reforms mentioned in the Lisbon Strategy.
That is why the implementation through dialogue of initiatives such as 'flexicurity' is essential. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lisbon Strategy has achieved the objective of increasing employment in Europe, but not everyone has benefited: the path for young people, women and marginal social groups remains difficult.
The need to combat poverty and social exclusion should always be taken into account in any EU strategy.
It is my view that no specific employment policy strategy will bring complete success without the total levelling of all existing barriers to the free flow of labour as a sure means of stimulating economic growth and promoting employment. (RO) I congratulate Anne Van Lancker for the report.
We have 78 million people at the limit of the poverty threshold also because Member States have inequalities in relation to the pay for employees.
One of the possibilities is the creation of a European public sector so that the European Union begins to function as an entity that creates job opportunities. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to applaud the remarkable job done by my colleague Mrs Morin, who has spoken up for the positions of our political group.
I think that in application of Article 138, Commissioner, it is up to you to promote the social partners; we need to involve them in the creation of proper European social legislation. (LT) The first stage of implementation of the objectives of the renewed Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs has already yielded considerable results: in 2007 3.5 billion posts were created in the EU and the level of unemployment in the period 2005-2007 dropped by 1.6%.
Young people in the EU are facing very serious problems too - around 6 million young people leave school early and the employment rate among young people is less than half that in the EU in general.
I urge the Commission to ensure the consistent implementation of the European Employment Strategy and lifelong learning objectives set out in the EU Youth Programme, the EU Gender Equality Agreement and the EU Disability Action Plan 2006-2007. (EL) Mr President, may I now draw attention to two services that need to be strengthened throughout Europe.
Employment as well as entrepreneurship and cooperation with the social partners represent perhaps our best hope in the years up to 2010. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the current economic situation in the European Union is improving.
Firstly, the European Employment Strategy has brought tangible results.
Of the millions of new jobs, more than half are full-time jobs and there can be no question marks over their quality.
Let me point out that Guideline No 19 puts emphasis on an inclusive labour market and on promoting the inclusion of disadvantaged people in the labour market.
I would like to answer another question concerning the application of Article 139 of the Treaty.
The European labour market strategy clearly has to take this aspect into account.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you once more for the debate, which, in my opinion, covered most of the important topics concerning the European labour market.
I sincerely hope that the submission of this report is not in vain, because, although Article 128 of the Treaty grants this Parliament the right to be consulted, in practice this right is at risk of being undermined.
As Mrs Van Lancker correctly comments in her report on employment guidelines, in the European Union we are faced with a situation in which more than 14 million working people are living in poverty.
in writing. - (PL) Growth and employment are key elements in the Lisbon Strategy.
Finally, I would like to draw attention to the element of mobility in the European market.
The fact that, out of the total number of unemployed persons in the European Union, over 40% are young people is just as serious.
