The Declaration on the future of Europe to be adopted on 25 March 2007 in Berlin could represent an important milestone on the road to a stronger, forward-looking Europe.
We want to see the substance of the Constitutional Treaty, including the section on values, become a legal and political reality. (Applause) I should like to conclude by emphasising that the Berlin Summit is not merely a gathering of governments, as was the case 50 years ago, but a conference at which both the European Parliament and the Commission will participate.
As the President has pointed out, on 25 March, the European Union will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome.
We can be proud of what the people of Europe have achieved in the past 50 years, and so 25 March should be a day of confidence, above all.
The European Parliament has made a vital contribution to shaping the process of European integration.
This support also applies to the preparations for the Berlin Declaration to be adopted on 25 March as a joint declaration by the three European institutions: the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission.
As the President has just pointed out, the European Council on 8 and 9 March showed that the EU is capable of action even with 27 Member States, including in the fields in which the public particularly expects it to; for example energy and the fight against climate change.
The Summit rightly sent out the message that, if we Europeans find the strength to act together, we can actively shape the future.
At the dinner for the Heads of State or Government on 8 March - which Commission President Barroso and you, Mr President, also attended - Chancellor Merkel described our ideas, as developed in the course of detailed discussions with representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the national governments.
We want to start the Declaration by paying tribute to the common achievements of the past 50 years in Europe; which include, of course, peace, stability, prosperity and the ending of the division of the continent.
The challenges that we in Europe will have to take up and overcome together in the 21st century will of course lie at the heart of the Declaration.
The European Heads of State or Government made an express declaration of commitment to this also in last Friday's conclusions.
We all agree that it should celebrate the achievements of 50 years of European integration, but also look ahead to inspire Europeans for the future.
I think that the decision to directly involve both the European Parliament and the European Commission has proved fully justified.
The bilateral discussions and the exchange at the European Council last week have pointed to a broad consensus on the purpose, scope and flavour of the Declaration.
The European Union can and will continue to be a motor for positive change in Europe and across the world.
The message should come out loud and clear that, if we are concerned about our institutions, it is because we want them to work well so that we can deliver on our citizens' expectations and meet high standards of democracy.
To conclude, I believe we are on track for a Declaration in Berlin on 25 March which meets the goals sketched out by the Commission last May, endorsed by the European Council and backed by this House.
It will mobilise the efforts of all-round core priorities, it will show a European Union united in its commitment to meet the aspirations of our citizens and to bring to the future work of the Union the same dynamism and achievement that we have enjoyed for 50 years of the European adventure. (Applause) Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed the Berlin Declaration three times.
The Community method distinguishes the EU from all other international organisations, as it gives Parliament, the directly elected representative body of 500 million citizens, the same right of codecision as the Council of Ministers whenever we make laws, standards or rules for the people of our Member States.
We must declare our commitment to the new Treaty.
The Council President showed courage at last week's Summit on climate change.
I hope she will show the same courage when it comes to the Berlin Declaration, as this courage in March will pay off at the Summit in June.
While all the nations of Europe fought for freedom, peace and prosperity, a number of them had to endure 50 years of dictatorship, loss of freedom and insecurity under the yoke of Communism.
We should also remember that the year 2007 marks not only the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, but also the 60th anniversary of the Marshall Plan.
The next 50 years will, however, be full of fresh challenges for all our countries.
The decision adopted during last week's European Council is to set common and ambitious objectives in the field of energy and climate change.
As far as we, the PPE-DE Group, are concerned, it is only by having faith in their abilities to create and adapt that future generations will be able to develop and thrive in this new world.
We all have a feeling of uncertainty, and so this Berlin Declaration needs to do something that may be possible with a very short text, namely send out a message of hope, that what we have tackled successfully in the last 50 years will continue to be possible in future.
One thing is certain, however, and that is that we shall no longer be able to content ourselves with describing the successes of the last 50 years.
In his acceptance speech for the Charlemagne Prize in Aachen, he said that Adolf Hitler was as remote to his children as William II was to him.
If, supported by the desire for integration of 27 countries, we succeed in expressing this in the Declaration, we shall be taking the right direction at the crossroads at which we are now standing. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, a significant birthday is always a good occasion to take stock.
And yet the European Union is at the base of the security, prosperity and opportunity which our people now enjoy.
But the Berlin Declaration must reflect less our pride in the past, more our determination for the future.
What has made Europe strong is its openness.
The fifty years since the signing of the treaties have witnessed many achievements and common policies.
A Union of 27 cannot operate with rules that were already restricting for the Fifteen.
Before saying a word about the 50 million legal immigrants living in Europe, who need the same rights as all Europeans, you went straight to the illegal immigrants.
That is the danger threatening Europe, namely our viewing immigrants as a threat to our European identity.
You are shaking your head - but rather than just travelling to ministries, you should listen to the discussions on this subject in Europe's cafés and bars for once.
These are the things I want to see in the Berlin Declaration, rather than some reference to God or anyone else who does not concern us here. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, the fact that the Union has decided to commemorate the 50th anniversary of its construction is not only normal, in my opinion, but may also prove useful, since we are seizing this opportunity to look clearly at the progress made and are learning inevitably contradictory lessons from this experience.
Thus, because I want the Union to provide itself with the means to come out of this crisis on top, I, together with my group, call for a shake-up, so that, when we come to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, talk will turn to the changes needed to pave the way for a genuine revival of the European project. (Applause) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, it is a fairly typical morning in Euroland: everybody is busy slapping themselves on the back and saying what a fantastic success the last 50 years have been.
However, I have noticed a slight change of emphasis: you are all talking much more now about freedom, democracy, rights and values, as if it was the European Union that had invented these very things.
The United States of America reached the EU's current level of GDP per capita in 1985.
The social model is not working and yet the solution seems to be that we want more of it - more regulation, more rules - and, I am afraid, economically this project is falling even further behind.
I urge you, please, to ask the peoples of Europe whether or not they want this project. (Applause from the IND/DEM Group) Mr President, 50 years ago, the Treaty between the six founding EU Member States was signed in Rome with near universal enthusiasm.
However, 50 years on, what are we finding?
The consequences are well known: our industries are being ruined one after the other, our farming is doomed to die out by 2013, and even our services are living on borrowed time.
So, let us regain pride in our roots, our traditions and our sovereign nations!
After all, discussions between Parliament, the Commission and the Member States are held not only for the purposes of drawing up a Berlin Declaration, but also so that we can draw on what we have learned in our ambitious attempt to take stock of the EU and the challenges for the future.
We understand that you cannot negotiate the content of a two-page text with 450 million people, but we can make sure that what you have heard and what we think is most important, from different political points of view, is put into the hands of those who are now drafting the text.
I hope that is the idea of us meeting here and both putting together what we are proud of in the history of the European Union, and formulating our hopes for the next 50 years of European cooperation and integration.
It is no longer enough these days to talk about the great successes of the past 50 years, but we have to look ahead, and we must be able to show the citizens of Europe a direction for the future.
Europe is facing increasingly difficult challenges, internal as well as external, which threaten our future and that of our children.
in writing. - (EL) The decisions taken by the European Council in March are yet further irrefutable proof of the role of the ΕU as a mechanism for promoting the choices of capital.
