Question Hour with the President of the Commission The next item is the Question Hour with the President of the Commission.
Open questions Mr President, expectations of EU 2020 are running high, not only in our group but also among European citizens.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, 2009 is drawing to an end in a difficult situation, with major unemployment and economic and budgetary problems.
President of the Commission. - First of all, I think that the fact that this Parliament voted again for a mandate for myself is a signal that there is support for the action we have been taking.
As I have said very often, the most important problem we face in Europe today - which most likely we are going to face for some time yet - is unemployment.
I would like to ask a brief additional question, Mr Barroso.
I am always ready to listen to your suggestions and to your comments.
In fact, some of the innovations were as a result of some debates with your group and other groups.
Mr President, my question concerns the situation in Greece.
This situation is very alarming, of course, with a government deficit of 12.7% and government debt poised to exceed 130%.
This is exactly the situation I found in Belgium when, at a young age, I became Minister for the Budget in 1985.
We believe the current budget for 2010 that is now being discussed in the Greek Parliament and Prime Minister Papandreou's statements are steps in the right direction.
I trust that this programme will include concrete measures to strengthen fiscal adjustment in 2010 and to ensure lasting consolidation of public finances.
President of the Commission. - We are not at this stage contemplating the kind of measures suggested.
There will also be a Commissioner for home affairs, which is basically what happens in most, if not all, Member States in Europe - there is a minister for the interior and a minister for justice.
It will also be much better in terms of the amount of work because, as you know, we have just approved the Stockholm Programme.
It has nothing to do with the role of the President of the Commission.
Secondly, there is another issue in the detail which seems totally unreasonable to us and that is that green genetic engineering, which you, Mr Barroso, are in favour of, now forms part of the health portfolio and is no longer included in the environment or agriculture portfolio.
I want the Commissioner for climate change to have some instruments to pursue her policy but, of course, she has to do this in cooperation with other Commissioners - namely the Commissioner for the Environment, the Commissioner for Energy and others - because this is such an important policy that also has a very important external dimension.
The last summit before this was in Paris.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr Barroso, we have recently heard that there is to be a closure of the Corus steel works on Teesside in northern England.
The real gain to Corus from stopping production on Teesside is the saving it will make in its carbon allowances allocated by the EU under its emissions trading system scheme, which will be worth up to GBP 600 million over the next three years.
Concerning the issue at stake, you said that the British Government said this was the position of the European Union.
I do not know anything about that statement, but let me tell you that, if there is one government that has been pushing the European Union for ambitious targets in the fight against climate change, it is precisely the government of your country, whether you like it or not.
Therefore, I will not prejudge a referendum in a country or the reaction to a referendum organised by the Commission.
The question is clear.
That being said, I am not going to express an opinion on a hypothetical referendum. (MT) I had intended to address a question to the President of the Commission concerning the Commission.
I also noticed that the 2020 document contained no innovative ideas regarding how the Member States might be guided.
I would like to ask whether the Commission intends to use the warnings under Article 121 of the Treaty of Lisbon if a Member State does not comply or even want to comply with the ideas of the 2020 Strategy.
It was refused by the Member States.
I am going to fight for that but, of course, we need the support of the Member States to achieve this.
In fact, the new President of the Council, President Van Rompuy, has already announced that he wants an informal exchange of views at the beginning of February.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to provide an explanation in response to a very important question by Mrs Ries.
I have about 30 people on the list, in the order you took your blue cards.
If you wish, you can keep your cards for now, and Ms Durant will be the next speaker for one minute.
Mr President, this is a well-known problem, a very important problem, and I am in fact proud that we have made progress during this Commission's term of office.
Last week, I met representatives of the Wellcome Trust, which is the UK's largest charity and last year gave EUR 750 million to medical research.
I think Cambridge is one of the greatest universities in Europe and in the world.
It is precisely because we do not have so many Cambridges in Europe that we have been working to have a real European research area, because Cambridge and other very important universities in Europe are quite international.
That is why we not only need private funding like the ones you mentioned, and I certainly welcome all the work of foundations such as the ones you mentioned, but we also need public funding from the states and from the European Union budget.
It was in your country that we had the highest ever case of State aid in the history of the European Union, precisely because of problems in the financial markets. (EL) Mr President, Mr Barroso, may I say that, while the ambitious objectives of the strategy for 2020 are being debated, there are certain countries, such as Greece, which will join this strategy on unfavourable terms, with huge economic problems and high unemployment.
Greece will, of course, go on benefiting from cohesion funds as it is one of the countries benefiting from those cohesion funds, and this is separate from the European Union 2020 Strategy.
President of the Commission. - In the case of Opel, as you know, the Commission has maintained an important position, promoting the necessary meetings between the different countries involved and the companies concerned.
We have been supporting this idea, not only in terms of ideas but in terms of funding.
Thank you, colleague, but please do not put two questions during your one minute, because it is very difficult for President Barroso to answer two questions in one minute.
Yes, we have to do more to fight poverty and social exclusion but for that, we need the support of our Member States.
I very much expect to have your support on this because, as you know, to fight social exclusion and poverty, we also need some instruments at European level that complement the instruments at national level.
Finally, I will permit myself to make a comment: I think the time allowed for social consultations, and I mean the deadline set for 15 January, is too short.
The Committee of the Regions has prepared a very interesting report, as has the Economic and Social Committee, and I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am prepared, if the European Parliament so wishes, to hold a debate on this matter - not just this question hour with one-minute replies, but a special debate on this matter alone - whenever you want, because I really believe it is extremely important. (Applause) It is extremely important for this Parliament to have ownership, and also to associate national parliaments in this process, because this is to be the centrepiece of the strategy for the future.
This is what we are preparing, and for this we need the support of Parliament and, hopefully, also the agreement of our Member States. (DE) Following up on the question which has already been asked, I would like to return to the 2020 climate strategy.
President of the Commission. - Mr Langen, I do not know exactly to what you are referring, but, if you are talking about emissions in Europe, let us be honest about it: our emissions are roughly speaking 14% of global emissions and that trend is a downwards one, because there are big economies on the rise in terms of emissions.
If we want to solve the problem and if we believe there is a threat to our planet - that of climate change - we need cooperative efforts on all sides.
So, yes, we do have more stringent conditions than in some other parts of the world, but we are also viewing this as an opportunity to develop new technologies so that we can meet our targets without putting at risk our companies, because we do not want to export our companies and our jobs.
Colleagues, during Question Hour with President Barroso, please do not ask additional questions, because a lot of people are waiting for their first question.
I even added that the 2010 budget currently being discussed in the Greek Parliament and the Prime Minister's statement are steps in the right direction.
This is certainly going to be part of our future strategy but I cannot, at this stage, commit to exactly how it will be incorporated. (SV) Mr President, one of the biggest failings of the Lisbon strategy which, in other respects, is a good document, is that we have, to a certain extent, failed to get the Member States to actually achieve the goals set out in the strategy.
One of the targets that was included was how much the Member States should invest in research and development in terms of a percentage of GDP.
I would like to know whether the Commission intends to set similar targets for the Member States, in other words, how much of its gross national product each Member State should invest in research and development.
I think the next phase of the European Union 2020 Strategy will have to be more refined and more sophisticated, having specific targets - agreed, of course, with the Member States - but for different situations.
However, we believe that in some cases, it makes more sense to spend a euro at European level than at national level because of the potential benefits of exploring the European dimension and the European internal market.
Given the huge salary that Mr Barroso is on, can he not spend another 30 minutes with us on a regular basis, to make this an hour and a half?
There are 750 Members in this place.
Come here for 90 minutes, not 60.
President Barroso is smiling very politely, but we will see.
