Mr President, I refer to an administrative change that has been made in Parliament, which comes to me as news.
Since I came to this House in 1984, Wagonlit has provided an excellent service.
Travel for Members of this House is difficult enough without bringing in new agencies, without consulting Members.
I think it is not a Parliament decision but a Commission decision.
The Irish people believe in the European Union and in enlargement, and will deal with these issues in its own time and in its own way.
Thank you, Mr Bourlanges.
Thank you, Mrs Klamt.
Thank you very much, Mr Corbett.
Regulation (EEC) No 3763/91 introducing specific measures in respect of certain agricultural products for the benefit of the French Overseas Departments [COM(2000) 774 - C5-0748/2000 - 2000/0307(CNS)] II.
Regulation (EEC) No 1600/92 concerning specific measures for the Azores and Madeira relating to certain agricultural products [COM(2000) 774 - C5-0749/2000 - 2000/0308(CNS)] III.
introducing specific measures for certain agricultural products for the French Overseas Departments [COM(2000) 791 - C5-0744/2000 - 2000/0313(CNS)] II.
introducing specific measures for certain agricultural products for the Azores and Madeira [COM(2000) 791 and COM(2001) 156 - C5-0745/2000 - 2000/0314(CNS)] III.
introducing specific measures for certain agricultural products for the Canary Islands [COM(2000) 791 - C5-0746/2000 - 2000/0316(CNS)] IV.
amending Regulation (EC) No 1254/1999 establishing the common organisation of the market in beef and veal [COM(2000) 791 - C5-0747/2000 - 2000/0317(CNS)] Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Declaring its duty of Community solidarity in responding to the needs of these outermost regions, between 1989 and 1991 the European Community adopted some other action programmes due to their remote and island nature, called the POSEIs.
The aim was to promote sustainable development and strengthen job-creating production sectors.
The favourable measures established by the Community have been combined with very significant efforts on the part of the Member States directly concerned: France, Portugal and Spain, and by the regional and local administrations.
In any case, in order to continue to make progress in integrating these regions into the European area and in order to deal with phenomena that have appeared recently with the growing process of globalisation, we need to have a sounder legal basis and strengthen the regulations that have been operating up until now.
We have been working on this for months, also relying on the fact that in Amsterdam, the recognition of the specific nature of the outermost regions and the commitment to support them in order to overcome their problems was introduced into the Treaties in Article 299.
The reform plan that was presented to us was moving in the right direction, but it fell short in its proposals.
As well as the amendment on updating the legal basis, there are amendments that respond to joint demands from the different regions and others that are specific to each of them.
The amendments on specific sensitive products from each region concern tomatoes in the Canary Islands, livestock, milk products and the sugar industry in the Azores and the wicker industry in Madeira, and support for rice in some of the French territories.
With these amendments we are expressing our will to overcome once and for all the problems of our outermost regions.
I will finish by thanking the officials of our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their dedication and professional attitude, and also by expressing my thanks to the Commission and the Council, who have supported us by showing interest and understanding.
Many special measures are therefore permitted, namely, the Structural Funds, for both fishing and regional policy.
This is Amendment No 5, which concerns the FIFG intervention level, the financial instrument, in the ultra peripheral regions, which is very important for those involved, in other words, the fishermen.
The Commission is proposing to increase the Community contribution for these regions, which is a positive step, up to a maximum of 85%, with the exception of fleet renewal and modernisation of fishing vessels and pilot projects, where the contributions remain exactly the same as in the previous regulation and are therefore unchanged.
Moreover, even though there may be over-capacity in more central areas, this is not the case in all the ultra peripheral regions, or at any rate, it is much less certain.
This amendment proposes, therefore, to increase the A rate or the proportion of the European Union to 50% and the C rate or the proportion of other national or regional contributions to 40%.
Lastly, there are Amendments Nos 7 and 8, which raise the issue of non-retroactivity.
Mr President, as I think that you all already know, the negotiations to renew the fisheries agreement with Morocco came to an end without that renewal having taken place.
Article 16 of the FIFG Regulation, in letter b) of Paragraph 1, allows the temporary inactivity of vessels to be funded if a fisheries agreement is not renewed for 6 months, which may be extended for 6 more months, following the presentation of a conversion plan.
This period and the extension period ended on 31 December, while we were still in the middle of negotiations with Morocco.
However, when the report that we are debating was practically finished, the Council of Ministers in April considered the negotiations to be completed, and in May the Commission had still not presented its proposal for measures that would consider the conversion plan.
We know that the Commission intends to put forward a proposal for a Regulation in this respect at the next Council of Fisheries Ministers on 18 June, but for technical reasons it will not be able to be adopted until 3 July, which will cause a considerable delay in the timetable, given that consultation by the European Parliament is also provided for.
It is obvious that these decisions cannot be taken before 30 June, when the formulae that will ultimately be offered to them are still not known now.
Therefore, before this report was voted on in committee, I introduced an amendment to change the dates of the Commission proposal and put them back from 30 June to 31 December.
The Committee on Fisheries understood the situation perfectly and, also taking into account that extending the period does not carry financial consequences for the Community budget, as the aid will continue to come from the FIFG of the Member States concerned, it decided to unanimously support the amended content of the report.
I would like to highlight Amendment No 5 to that report, because I think that it fits in much better with Article 29, Paragraph 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, which allows a maximum contribution of 50% to SMEs in the outermost regions.
We should not forget that measures to modernise vessels tend to be what makes the difference between a competitive business and a business in difficulties, as well as ensuring that its workers have a more decent employment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and also on behalf of the Liberal Group, I would like to point out that the consultation that has been made in the European Parliament on the individual application of Community provisions in various areas to the outermost regions of the European Union, such as the agricultural measures of the POSEI and the structural measures in agriculture and fisheries, fulfils the procedure laid down in the legal basis that is in Article 299, Paragraph 2 that was mentioned of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, modified in Amsterdam.
They aim to fulfil the objective of economic and social cohesion, they are balanced for each and every one of the regions affected and implicitly recognise the rights of the citizens of the European Union within the financial neutrality recommended by the Commission.
In some cases we have incorporated significant changes, such as the inclusion of Canarian tomatoes in the assistance under the agricultural POSEICAN programme, and the review of some products initially included in the SSA (Specific Supply Arrangements), and improvements in aid for the agricultural and livestock sectors of the French Overseas Departments, Madeira and the Azores.
Community support must be strengthened and not reduced; 4 - New agri-environmental measures and measures for the development and adaptation of rural areas must be launched, and, lastly, the Commission should present new proposals if any of the measures prove to be insufficient or expire before 2006.
Mr President, the extension of the specific programmes of support for agriculture in the outermost regions is a measure of basic need.
The Commission proposal, however, errs on the side of meagreness, confining itself most of the time to prolonging the status quo, without addressing new market trends and the increasing difficulty for these regions to compete on international markets ever since the World Trade Organisation agreement was signed in 1999.
In conclusion, Parliament has done its job, having made a real effort to hold a dialogue both among Members themselves and between Members and those politically responsible for the outermost regions of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the outermost regions were fully acknowledged in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, we are still awaiting the first far-reaching measures.
I therefore welcome the fact that this omission was partially restored by the Council, because by limiting the scope of this article, we are undermining the very concept of what outermost regions are.
I am glad to hear that the rapporteur supports our amendment, because it is scandalous that this loophole still exists.
With regard to the first package of proposals, which aims at revision in the sense of increasing the rates of assistance under the Structural Funds, it is important to make a greater effort by slightly increasing the Community co-funding percentages, particularly as regards agri-environmental measures and public aid to the productive sector, given that these regions are among the poorest in the European Union and their production, processing and marketing structures need to be strengthened.
Mr President, the peripheral regions of the European Union are in a vulnerable situation.
In this way the capacity of the fleet at sea on a particular day is within the norms laid down.
Mr President, it is nice to see the Commission respond in a positive manner to the desire of Member States to introduce flexibility into the management of the Structural Funds, from which the outermost regions can benefit in order to take account of their specific handicap.
Since this provision is non-reciprocal, it will lead to unfairness.
Our committee recently visited the island of Réunion on the initiative of our colleague Margie Sudre and I think that we all came back convinced of the need to help with generous solidarity to solve or at least to alleviate the specific and difficult problems that these very remote European territories have.
In the case of the report by our colleague Mrs Fraga, we should also thank our committee for its unanimous solidarity in supporting the initiative to extend assistance to 31 December of this year for a specific sector that is so affected by the failure to renew the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
The European media are already saying that the Commission plans to allocate EUR 142 million, charged to the flexibility instrument, to this plan, but I, like the sector itself, have too many doubts about this, which I would like Mr Fischler to clear up for me.
The sector wants to know whether this conversion plan for the fleet is going to be debated at the Council of Ministers on 18 June, whether the aid is going to be extended equally, as this report proposes, to shipowners and workers, or if it is only going to be for the latter, whether you have received the conversion plans from the governments concerned, the Spanish and Portuguese governments, and when are you, Commissioner, going to present your proposal to the European Parliament and the Council?
Finally, in the Commission plan, whether funds are going to be included for the economic diversification of the areas, because in my opinion, simply redistributing and redirecting FIFG funds already allocated to the Member States, Commissioner, is taking from one mouth to feed another.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the nine proposals for regulation that have been submitted to us today represent the first wave of measures adopted for the outermost regions following the entry into force of Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
With regard to the structural measures, we can take satisfaction from the fact that the Commission is proposing to raise Structural Fund assistance rates and the public subsidy limit for the outermost regions, even though the aim is really to enable these regions to regain funding levels close to those in force in the previous programming period.
The consequence of this will be to impose a major limit on the scope of the measure and, ultimately, to prevent the outermost regions from matching their situation in the 1994-1999 period.
Without going into detail on the proposals, which are, on the whole, a step in the right direction, it is crucial that Article 299(2) should be kept as the legal base for this text and that the continuity of these measures is guaranteed in order to compensate for the delay by the Commission in drafting them and to prevent any interruptions to funding.
Lastly, with regard to the proposal for a regulation on the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG), the special rates for fleet renewal and modernisation measures must be applied to ships of up to 16 metres in length.
I would ask you to support these proposals and the two amendments that I have re-tabled.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteurs Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez and Bernard Poignant on the excellent work they have done.
Approval of this package of regulations adapting the rates of Community co-funding in the Structural Funds together with the revision of the POSEI programmes closes a cycle in the field of agricultural and structural legislation for the outermost regions.
I also congratulate the rapporteur Carmen Fraga Estévez on her report.
In this connection I want to raise again the most serious problem in the debate on the economy of the Azores, which also affects the economy of Madeira: the massive collapse in the numbers of tuna migrating from equatorial Atlantic waters to these Macaronesian archipelagos.
This is a direct consequence of the increase in fishing effort particularly by dozens of purse seine vessels whose activities are encouraged by the European Commission in West African waters, where the tuna begin their migration to Macaronesian waters.
Mr President, the POSEI programmes were proposed more than 10 years ago as aid instruments for what we now know as the outermost regions.
With the inclusion of the new Article 299.2 of the Treaty, the outermost regions now have a sound legal basis that has enabled the Commission to propose these new POSEIs.
Despite all this, the Commission' s proposals respond to their desire to fulfil the commitments that have been gradually made over recent years, as is the case with cattle and milk production in the Azores or the inclusion of tomato production in the Canary Islands, to name just two examples.
There are still, of course, a few aspects left to resolve, such as the case of some products, especially in the agriculture and food processing industry, within the specific supply arrangements for the Canary Islands, which will have to be resolved as part of the decisions to be made in the Management Committee responsible, given that if the conditions envisaged at the moment were maintained, the result would be unsatisfactory.
I would like to congratulate you and thank you for the Commission' s interest in the outermost regions and express the general satisfaction of the Members of this House.
I am referring to Regulation (EEC) No 1601/92, concerning specific measures for the Canary Islands and, specifically to Amendments Nos 29 and 34, aimed at including aid for non-municipal public forests, and Amendment No 158, also concerning aid for non-municipal forests.
I am also referring to Amendments Nos 126 and 127, which aim to protect local industry in the Canary Islands and, finally, the amendments aimed at protecting the Canarian tomato, which could encounter serious difficulties in the new phase of drawing up a Community policy that applies in Mediterranean countries.
The European Parliament should adopt these proposals, which, incidentally, have not been amended at all in Parliament, as I think that the majority of Members consider that the text adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is a positive one.
The unemployment rates in five of these regions are among the highest in the European Union at between 21 and 37% of the working population.
The first proposal relates to contributions by the Structural Funds.
The ceiling on the EAGGF contribution towards eligible investment costs has been raised from 50 to 75% for investments in farm holdings and from 50 to 65% in the processing and marketing sector.
They also include the amendments increasing agri-environmental measures in the agricultural sector and the three other flanking measures to 85% and doubling the maximum amounts for agri-environmental measures in the sensitive areas of Madeira and the Azores.
Fifthly and finally, the common organisation of the market in milk and in beef and veal needs to be revised in order to harmonise the three POSEI regulations.
Again, I cannot agree to apply Article 292(2) here.
The first two proposed amendments concern the legal basis.
As the same legal basis must apply to the whole package of measures, the Commission stands by its proposal to apply Article 37.
Amendments Nos 4 and 6 concern problems with fish and flags of convenience.
We cannot accept your Amendment No 5 because we feel that we should not keep on promoting the overcapitalisation of the EU fleet.
I can accept Amendments Nos 7 and 8.
This proposal is the first in a package of measures ordered by the European Council in Nice.
Today's proposal meets one of the specifications set in Nice, namely to extend the current aid regulation to 30 June.
I hope that, despite the noise here, anyone interested in hearing my report and my position has been able to do so.
on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1600/92 concerning specific measures for the Azores and Madeira relating to certain agricultural products as regards the structural measures (COM(2000) 774 - C5-0749/2000 - 2000/0308(CNS)) 3.
on the proposal for a Council regulation introducing specific measures for certain agricultural products for the French Overseas Departments (COM(2000) 791 - C5-0744/2000 - 2000/0313(CNS)) 2.
on the proposal for a Council regulation introducing specific measures for certain agricultural products for the Azores and Madeira (COM(2000) 791 and COM(2001) 156 - C5-0745/2000 - 2000/0314(CNS)) 3.
on the proposal for a Council regulation introducing specific measures for certain agricultural products for the Canary Islands (COM(2000) 791 - C5-0746/2000 - 2000/0316(CNS)) 4.
Therefore, in order to harmonise the proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the proposal from the Committee on Budgets, I am going to table an oral amendment specifying that the budgetary limits established in Paragraph 28 apply to human resources requested under Paragraphs 3 and 12, and I would like to propose this, exceptionally, before the vote, so that the different parliamentary groups can confirm that they do not reject this proposal, which would enable the Socialist Group to withdraw its request for a separate vote for Paragraphs 3 and 12.
This directive talks about total working hours and I find it appalling that the European Parliament is trying to regulate the total working hours of the self-employed in their own businesses and I voted against all these amendments.
Furthermore, it is unacceptable, having stated that 'if night work is performed, the daily working time shall not exceed eighthours in each twenty-four-hour period' , you immediately add that this period may be extended to 10 hours, as long as the average of 8 hours is respected in a longer reference period.
However, we voted in favour of my Amendment No 23, calling for a thorough Business Impact Assessment to be carried out and published within three years of the adoption of this Directive.
A driver' s working time might currently reach 60 or 70 hours, of which at least 50 might be spent behind the wheel.
Night work must be drastically shortened - 8 hours' driving is still too high - with the corresponding compensation and it must be limited to the transport of certain goods.
The working times of self-employed truck drivers must include not just the time at the wheel but also the time needed to check the vehicle, do administrative work, run the business etc., because otherwise rest periods are too short, thereby jeopardising drivers' health and lowering road safety because numerous serious accidents are caused by overtiredness. 3.
Above all in the field of cross-border problems there is an urgent need for measures on a European scale, but the Council has been sabotaging those measures for two years and even now only wants a toned-down version.
However, I have decided to vote against the report on the following points: the proposal that the employee be informed at least 24 hours in advance, the proposal that time spent next to the driver is to be counted as working hours and the proposal concerning a maximum working time of eight hours when driving at night.
Report Skinner (A5-0156/2001) As you know, Mr President, I am the national secretary of the Pensioners' Party in Italy, and therefore I represent pensioners.
Unfortunately, many pensioners, including young ones, are such because they have had accidents at work.
I therefore applaud this report which seeks to reduce greatly accidents at work caused by working at a height.
Consequently, it cannot be the task of the EU or the European Parliament to establish rules on the gradient of steps, how they are placed in relation to buildings or the fact that they must not rest on a slippery surface.
The reasonable solution would have been a directive under which the Member States have a duty to take appropriate and sufficient measures to ensure a certain level of safety in the workplace.
A common market should have certain minimum rules and common aims in order to achieve better health and safety at work.
The EU' s legislation must be kept free of detailed regulations, and new legislation must take the principle of subsidiarity into consideration.
Let the Member States themselves decide how rules and regulations on workers' health and safety are to be elaborated so that the required aims of the directive are achieved in the best possible way.
Report Sterckx (A5-0208/2001) Mr President, it is important that today in the European Parliament we have been able to adopt at first reading the so-called Erika II package, the name of which reminds us of the sad case of a vessel that sank at the end of 1999, a year and a half ago, causing a great tidal wave and considerable consequences on the coast of north east France and its marine environment.
With this second package, the European Commission has put forward regulations to establish a European Maritime Agency and a compensation fund for damage caused in European waters by oil pollution, and to establish a Community monitoring and information system on maritime traffic.
Report Sterckx (A5-0208/2001 ) and Mastorakis (A5-0205/2001) Although we are abstaining on the Mastorakis report on establishing a European Agency for Maritime Safety, we shall be voting in favour of the Sterckx report, because it lays down practical measures to limit the risks of pollution and danger to crews' lives.
I therefore believe that no city in Europe could represent the problems of shipping and, especially, maritime safety better than Genoa.
Report Esclopé (A5-0201/2001) This regulation will enable us to establish a fund for the compensation of oil pollution damage in European waters.
The oil slick of December 1999 demonstrated once again the inadequacy of compensation on offer.
It is a proven fact that most air traffic accidents are caused by human error, which is why introducing a uniform system for collecting, recording, exchanging and disseminating information on dangerous or potentially dangerous occurrences in all the Member States of the Community will allow a wide variety of occurrences to be evaluated, conclusions drawn and preventive measures taken.
Report Busk (A5-0210/2001) . (PT) Although it is important to ensure good conditions for animals, the reality of each Member State must be taken into account.
The measures are certainly important for the northern countries, but not suited to the situation in the south.
Not only people and their environment but also animal welfare is sacrificed to the free market.
Quite rightly individuals and organisations have campaigned for years to highlight this fact.
Report Brok (A5-0209/2001) On the pretext of helping Kosovo, this report proposes helping to privatise that country' s economy, which means, according to the examples given in the text itself, putting it into the hands of Western banks.
Our vote against the report expresses our indignation at the entire policy maintained by the Western powers, particularly those from the European Union.
This policy consists, having littered Kosovo with bombs as it did with Serbia, of making the very ruins of those countries into an additional outlet for Western capital.
I am happy for my friend, Mr Fernando Fernández Martin, Governor of the Canary Islands, whose seat is next to mine, who will thus be able to go round the Canary Islands with greater pride in the knowledge that Europe is close to those more peripheral regions and islands of Europe.
We must, on the other hand, express our reservations about the way in which the European Union is planning its aid for these regions, which it calls 'outermost' , because the aid is not intended solely for the poor communities of workers and country folk but is also intended to support interests, whether or not they are native to these regions and which have no need of aid, by promoting 'the spirit of enterprise' as well.
In view of the good results achieved since it was launched, the profound qualitative change that occurred with the introduction of Article 299(2) of the Treaty on European Union and the successive declarations of intention by various European Councils, one would have hoped for more.
This opinion of Parliament therefore takes on greater importance, and it is essential that the Council should accept it in its entirety.
I must highlight the proposals made by the rapporteur, Mr Martínez Martínez, either on his own initiative or based on the contributions of several Members, including myself, through the presentation of 20 draft amendments to the Commission' s text, which I am pleased to see included in Parliament' s position, which has been approved by such a substantial majority.
Nevertheless, although I voted in favour of Parliament' s position, I must make the following reservations: I cannot accept that Poseima should remain restricted to the agricultural sector and residually to the fisheries sector; I cannot accept the 'principle of budgetary neutrality' either, which means that the spending levels proposed for the future will be less than at the start of the programme in the early 1990s (still without the article in the Treaty on European Union); Neither can I accept the nature of the measure proposed to safeguard the principal production of the Azores: milk.
Poseima has thus made a significant contribution to the maintenance of our agriculture.
Poseima has also been crucial in that it includes specific measures aimed at cutting supply overheads, particularly in terms of transport, for foodstuffs for consumption or industrial processing.
Report Fraga Estévez (A5-0185/2001) . (PT) After the expiry of the fisheries agreement with Morocco on 30 November 1999, the Community fleet was left inactive.
In view of this situation, the Commission proposed a change to the rules on structural assistance with two objectives: to prolong the period for the granting of compensation for inactivity until 30 June 2001 and to allow the 4% FIFG aid threshold to be exceeded for this type of aid, because of the number of fishermen and shipowners affected by this cessation of activity in Portugal and Spain.
For Portugal the situation is highly complicated since about 30 vessels and 600 fishermen are living in this constant uncertainty; therefore the extension of aid, although late, may minimise the consequences of the cessation of activity and even those of a more profound restructuring.
Report Galeote Quecedo (A5-0199/2001) (PPE-DE), in writing. (SV) We Swedish Christian Democrats wish to stress that it is important that any establishment of a College of European Diplomacy, as is proposed in Article 9, does not lead to the intention of this replacing each Member State' s own national diplomatic training.
We are in Sweden, on the beautiful island of Gotland.
It does have something to do with it because, last Saturday and Sunday, I was at a meeting on renewable sources of energy on this same beautiful island of Gotland, in Sweden, where 50% of their energy comes from renewable sources, like wind, the sun, biomass and so on.
Direct support schemes under the CAP The next item is the report (A5-0184/2001) by Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the common agricultural policy (CAP): direct support schemes (amending Regulation 1259/1999/EC) (COM(2000) 841 - C5-0762/2000 - 2000/0335(CNS)).
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, the report now being debated is about simplifying the direct payments introduced in 1992 and then reviewed under Agenda 2000, at least at the bottom end of the scale.
We should not therefore be looking to make savings with this regulation and from these small farms by excluding them.
In fact the experience we now have of implementing the CAP is that in practice it marginalises small farmers, defined in this proposal as those who have received less than one thousand euro per year on average over the last three years.
Secondly, because as a rule small farmers have to do the same amount of paperwork as is required for 10, 50 or even 100 times as much aid; sometimes they have to fill out a dozen different forms every year to get a sometimes ridiculous amount of aid.
While this assessment of the proposal being debated is positive in principle, I should like to make three observations: the first is that I think the change approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to raise the threshold from one thousand to fifteen hundred euro seems reasonable, as it will include potentially a third of the farmers in the European Union and more than two-thirds in some countries, like mine.
In addition, the change also approved here to increase the level of aid over the last three years by 20% is important in my view, in part because this level has not yet stabilised following the Agenda 2000 reform, and it is also yet another incentive for small farmers to apply for aid.
My third observation is that in future we will have to consider another scale of aid for small farmers, who should receive a relatively higher rate of aid than large or middle-sized holdings, or else this aid will be ineffective.
We will also have to have new bases for allocating aids, since basing them on an average amount received over the last three years excludes those small farmers who grow products that are not eligible for aid, but which from the standpoint of multifunctionality should also be entitled to it, like the others.
Mr President, the Socialist Group is pleased with this proposal because it is one step further towards simplifying agricultural policy and favours small-scale farmers.
The proposal recognises that in many instances the administrative costs of managing and processing the aid do not match the amount of aid that these small-scale farmers receive.
However, 48% of farms receive less than EUR 2 000 and, as has already been pointed out, there is a great deal of variation within the Member States.
This indicates to us that if we want the simplified system to be effective, the maximum amount should be increased to EUR 1 500, as approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
We therefore support the rapporteur' s proposal that single global payments, which are calculated on the basis of the actual payments received in previous years, should be increased by 20% to compensate for the increase in future payments outside the simplified scheme.
I wish this initiative, which seems to be an experimental one, every success in its implementation and I hope that the Commission will continue to put proposals to us that move forward in the sense of simplifying the system and the management of agricultural policy, which is essential for achieving greater transparency, bringing Community policy closer to the European people and helping them to understand it.
The Commission did not accept it at first, but then agreed to move in that direction.
There may also be problems with this system regarding its ability to differentiate between aid for small-scale holdings and that for part-time farming.
I welcome the Commission proposal to introduce, on a trial basis, a simplified system for the payment of direct income support to farmers.
The proposal will result in less paperwork for farmers and a more cost-effective system for administration by national governments.
There has been an enormous improvement in the environmental profile of the rural of countryside, resulting from farmer participation in the rural environmental protection scheme and the environmental requirements of a reformed CAP.
This is a very useful proposal that certainly should be encouraged, and I thank the Commissioner for bringing it to the House.
The level can be discussed but the principle especially on this matter is very important.
Mr President, the Commission proposal misleadingly confines itself to an administrative matter which does not even merit discussion and deliberately overlooks the way in which direct Community aid is distributed to farm holdings and the worsening situation of small farm holdings.
According to the scant information contained in the report and from the farm accounting data network, 23.2% of the farms in the network are paid less than EUR 1 000 per annum in direct aid.
Mr President, apart from its costs, the common agricultural policy makes it difficult to allocate small farmer support to countries like Portugal, where 75% of farmers are small-scale.
In any case, I support the report presented by Parliament.
Honourable Members, the Court of Auditors complained in its opinion on the Agenda 2000 reforms that the authorities in the Member States disburse relatively modest sums in aid to a relatively large number of farmers at considerable administrative expense.
The present proposal is the Commission's answer to these complaints.
First, the regulation would no longer be without any impact on the budget and we would have to reckon on additional costs of about EUR 100 million per annum.
The decision to apply this system must be taken at the trial stage at national level when the Member States are given the opportunity to apply the small producer regulation on a regional basis.
The debate is closed.
We cannot get involved in the negotiations but the most important thing we can do - and I hope the House will agree - is to give strong support to the EU negotiating team and say to the Americans: 'come on, sign up, we need this agreement' .
Mr President, the last century began with the widespread use of poisonous gas in the First World War, that is, with chemical weapons.
Mr President, President Bush' s visit to Europe is taking place partly in the context of his plans for a national missile defence system.
Reaching agreement on this will mean at last another success in the struggle against weapons of mass destruction.
The joint debate is closed.
However, your initial difficulties in finding someone who was here to speak about this point are highlighted by the fact that there are only about 10 Members here, and I am afraid that there will scarcely be hundreds of us here when, in a couple of hours' time, we vote on these resolutions.
Mr President, the situation in the Central African Republic has, once again, just grown worse and several hundred people have been killed in the wake of the attempted coup and the consequent repression.
This crisis is, once again, striking a population that has suffered from tribal fighting in a country blighted for decades by a serious economic crisis, as Mr Haarder has just reminded us.
Mr President, we support the passing of this resolution condemning the repression employed by the Central African Army following the attempted coup d' état of 28 May and the ethnic-based nature of this repression.
Mr President, democracy has still not been achieved in Africa.
The fact that in the process, a country like Libya gains more power and esteem in the continent is a regrettable but obviously inevitable side effect.
The events in the Central African Republic are also an extension of the war in Congo.
The lack of interest, but mainly the divisions within the European Union, leads to indecisive and inconsistent action against countries that break the Lusaka agreements.
Mr President, the Commission is concerned about the recent attempted coup in the Central African Republic and the increasing political and social instability in the country.
In this context, the Commission, together with the Central African Republic, has recently finalised a country support strategy aimed at promoting good governance and a more stable, social and institutional environment as prerequisites for sustainable development.
The Community's cooperation is to be focused on the transport and health sectors.
The resulting humanitarian crisis appears to be well identified and manageable.
The Commission's humanitarian aid office (ECHO) has, since the beginning of the crisis, been in regular contact with the delegation and international NGOs coordinating with the UN on the ground in Bangui.
In consultation with these partners, and in response to this crisis, the Commission will be providing up to EUR 1 million for a two-month operation.
This will include emergency food aid for 35 000 children and other particularly vulnerable groups, such as pregnant women and the elderly; medical assistance in the form of drugs, medical equipment and small-scale rehabilitation to enable looted health centres to reopen immediately; and reinstallation assistance in the form of basic household items and, possibly, support to refurbish badly damaged homes.
Commissioner, Mr President, I am very anxious that the European Union should continue to increase its efforts to come to the aid of civilian populations, and of democracy itself, by fighting against these policies of structural withdrawal, because they are unfair.
The joint debate is closed.
Consequently, I fervently hope that that support will increase after and because of this resolution.
We believe a series of proceedings should be started against all those involved in the murder of Bishop Gerardi, as suggested in the very well-balanced report on the case, entitled 'Guatemala, never again' .
To this end we believe the European Union should help protect all the witnesses, judges and defenders of human rights in Guatemala who are working towards this.
The President has supported this, but we see both judges and others associated with the legal authorities being persecuted and killed, and it is regarding these matters that we too in this Parliament must keep the closest possible eye on the situation and keep up a maximum of pressure so that these processes are carried through with transparency and so that the truth emerges and the skeletons come out of the cupboard.
The joint resolution we have tabled, resulting from the unanimous agreement of all the political groups in this Parliament, underlines the homogeneous and consistent position of this House, which has for so long been committed to human rights in general and the Guatemalan people in their search for peace in particular.
Mr President, on behalf of the Social-Democratic Group I should like to say about the wonderful country and remarkable people of Guatemala that they have of course been through a very dark period, in which the vast majority of the population have in fact as indigenos been ruled and dominated by a minority of whites.
In this resolution the new phase in which Guatemala finds itself is recognised, and the legitimacy of the government is fully recognised.
Electoral fraud in Chad Mr President, Commissioner, I think that the elections in Chad are a textbook case for those throughout the world who want a user' s manual for producing an electoral farce.
I would say, however, to all those who still doubt whether a policy of neo-colonialism is at work, that it is the international community and above all, my country, France that bear responsibility for what has happened in Chad.
France has maintained a military presence in that country since independence.
Mr President, the newly elected President Deby has made wonderful promises to his people, the European Union and the World Bank.
The elections appear to have been heavily rigged.
We were also looking at human rights in that country.
The government of Chad needs to reassure public opinion in Chad and throughout the world by holding an independent and a public inquiry into the allegations that have been made.
The European Union should insist on this.
First, if there are 4 million voters registered in Chad and another half million registered abroad, how can 5.6 million people have voted?
Does this mean that Chad will follow in the footsteps of countries such as Nigeria, Angola and Sierra Leone?
The special set-up of the project is intended to guarantee that the proceeds are used for the economic and social development programmes for the benefit of the poor, but the unstable situation in Chad is threatening these good intentions and that is unacceptable.
Both the World Bank and we in Europe must increase pressure on Chad to ensure that the human rights situation there is improved.
I would argue again - as I have previously done with other countries in Africa - for a code of practice between the international institutions and multinational oil companies, according to which the companies concerned commit themselves to the conditions of socially responsible business.
Signature of this code of behaviour - which could be an initiative of the European Union or the Commission - should be a minimum precondition for multinationals to participate in projects in developing countries where public funding is used.
Mr President, honourable Members have highlighted at length the way in which the elections were rigged in Chad.
The people of Chad have no faith in their democratic institutions and they have been proved right.
Mr President, only yesterday the electoral commission in Chad confirmed the re-election of President Idriss Déby and the result of 67% of votes cast in his favour in the elections of 20 May.
President Déby has himself declared to high profile media that irregularities are common in African elections and democracies, but one should not hide behind a general evil to justify internal outrages.
In this case, we are not talking about technical problems, which may occur, even in the most stable democracies.
As so often happens, it is up to the European Parliament to appeal to the European Union bodies responsible for foreign relations to assess whether, with the confirmation of the election result, democracy in Chad is making any progress.
Yet again we must reiterate the need to use all the means at our disposal, especially those provided for in the Cotonou Agreement, and our cooperation with the community of ACP countries, particularly the African ones, to prevent and to correct highly dubious acts such as those that have just occurred in Chad.
We must all ensure the success of those who are working hard to achieve decent levels of democracy, freedom and progress in those countries, as a necessary precondition for stability and prosperity to become a reality in their societies.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists asks you to support their resolution and also asks the Commission to adopt their declaration so that the government of Chad can learn of our concern and the sections of Chadian society that have been edged out of the electoral process can realise that they can count on our solidarity.
We could go down that road, but first of all, we should talk about her, because in 1972, this woman was brave enough to condemn female 'circumcision' .
Unfortunately there is still no internal stability.
As an important partner of Egypt' s, we should protest emphatically against these abuses.
The Barcelona process will never get off the ground if democratisation is bogged down in autocratic reluctance.
The human rights situation in Egypt is giving rise to increasing concern.
Several other human rights defenders are also experiencing legislative and judicial harassment.
The state of emergency, the law on association and the judicial system have been put in place to repress all freedom of expression, which reveals how far off course the government is with regard to respect for human rights, especially where torture and ill treatment are concerned.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Association Agreement between the European Union and the Arabic Republic of Egypt, I would like to remind you of the importance of this agreement for the construction of a total partnership, which is not only commercial but also political and cultural, with this key player in the Middle East.
Given that negotiations were concluded in June 1999, the Association Agreement is due to be signed very soon and we will be asked to take a stand on this text.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming signing of a partnership agreement between Egypt and the European Union must enable us, particularly in the field of human rights, to iron out the difficulties faced on the ground by the various associations that defend these rights.
However, we must not systematically give way to urgent resolutions and I believe that, in the institutional relationships of confidence which have clearly been established between the European Union and Egypt, it would have been preferable to base our own opinion, our own debate, on the steps that certain Members of Parliament have already taken in this Chamber.
The facts related by Amnesty International, which alerted us to these practices, concern a number of cases of men, women and even children being tortured, in some cases to death.
Selim is campaigning for normalisation of relations between his country and the neighbouring state of Israel.
In its pages you can read the following, for example, about the visit of Colin Powell to "his bosses in Tel Aviv": "The American foreign minister had no qualms about abasing himself when he was in Israel.
However, Commissioner, there is one question I wish to ask you and I would like an unequivocal response, if that is possible.
Paragraph 4 of this resolution expresses our support for the Khaldun Centre for Democracy and requires the Commission to continue its financial support for this organisation and its activities.
If 'no' or 'perhaps no' , I believe we should vote against Paragraph 4 until we are satisfied, and also vote against the resolution as a whole if it still contains Paragraph 4.
It is depressing to see how Prime Minister Mahatir is increasingly doing violence to quite elementary democratic principles and general decency in order to put down his political rivals.
This Internal Security Act, or ISA, is used and abused for the purpose of getting at the Prime Minister' s political and personal enemies, as in a dictatorship.
That is deeply regrettable, and it is good that Parliament is today getting to debate the matter and that we are getting a strong statement from the government.
The role played in Europe by Karl IV was played in twentieth century Malaysia by Tungku Abdul Rahman, who managed to strike a balance between Hindu, Muslim and Buddhist, Malay, Tamil and Chinese interests within a federalist structure headed by nine different families of sultans which take it in turns in a clever revolving system to rule this multi-ethnic state.
Above all, it is an important member of ASEAN, our partner community in South-East Asia.
The news is still fresh: the Taliban recaptured a town in the centre of Afghanistan.
The Human Rights Watch today reports the very latest atrocity in this never-ending story: 60 citizens imprisoned and official, residential and commercial buildings destroyed.
So that the question is no longer whether the Taliban are violating human rights, but what conclusions must be drawn.
I ask myself how we can receive representatives of the Afghan resistance, how we can support Afghan women - which I feel is a very positive thing - without going further and without having the means to express our indignation.
We need a more intelligent policy in this sphere.
I think that our experience in areas close to home has shown that a presence in the country can also yield good results and, above all, has a humanitarian basis.
Mr President, the dubious honour of holding the world record in human rights abuses goes to the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.
The high Islamic priest of Egypt and numerous Muslims, Farid Wasil, is refusing the Taliban knowledge of the true values and ideas of the Koran and has declared their religious values and fatwas to be null and void.
Last Wednesday, German customs seized six kilos of heroin and 64 kilos of hashish worth EUR two million in a container from Afghanistan.
The UN sanctions must stay in place, Commissioner, until Afghanistan makes the transition from the mediaeval world imposed by Mullah Omar to the modern world and hence to democracy and the rule of law.
Mr President, on Tuesday, Mohamed al-'Owhali was sentenced to life imprisonment in New York for the Nairobi US Embassy bombing, whilst his boss, Osama bin Laden, is given sanctuary by the Taliban as an Islamic hero of Afghanistan.
There are increasing concerns within the EU and the international community about the considerable deterioration in that country in the situation in key areas such as human rights protection, justice and good governance.
The EU has been very supportive of the peace process in Guatemala, both politically and financially.
The cooperation programme with Guatemala is aimed at giving adequate support to the peace process.
The Commission has assisted civil society and state organisations, with the aim of contributing to the reconciliation process in the country.
Furthermore, a Memorandum of Understanding, signed jointly by the European Commission and the Guatemalan government on the 26 March 2001, confirms our commitment to the peace process, with EUR 93 million of additional funds for the period 2001 to 2006.
The Commission and Member States have also used the regular political dialogue with Guatemala to reiterate the importance of respecting human rights.
The Commission is also closely monitoring the situation in Chad, after the announcement by the National Independent Electoral Commission of the result of the presidential election of 20 May.
On 12 June the Constitutional Council announced the official election result confirming that Idriss Déby had won a second term in office with 63% of the votes.
The situation is being closely monitored by the EU heads of mission on the ground.
In the spirit of Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement, the Commission will continue its ongoing political dialogue with Chad.
However, it is recognised that these rights and liberties are not sufficiently respected by all actors.
The ninth EDF country support strategy, which is at the final preparation stage, contains an important programme of support for civil society, including human rights organisations.
The recent sentencing of the well-known human rights and pro-democracy campaigner, Professor Saad Ibrahim, and his colleagues has aroused widespread interest in the international community.
The case against Professor Ibrahim and his 28 co-accused at the Ibn Khaldun and HODA centres has been closely followed by the European Commission and Member States.
When they were initially held without charge last year, the EU made its concern clear at the highest levels, with respect not only to the imprisonment without charge, but also to the intensive and prejudicial press campaign against the accused.
When charges were eventually pressed against the accused, and when it was made clear that these included a charge of accepting foreign (that is, EU) funds without authorisation, the European Commission delegation in Cairo reminded the appropriate authorities that grants to civil society organisations were perfectly proper and covered by the EU-Egypt framework convention on financial and technical cooperation.
Support for civil society is also an integral component of the Barcelona Process and is an explicit objective of the Barcelona Agreement of 1995, to which Egypt is a signatory.
The statement issued by the European Commission in Brussels on 13 December last made it clear that the projects concerned were subject to normal monitoring procedures, including an external mid-term audit.
The sentencing gave rise to an oral statement by the Commission on 23 May and a Presidency declaration on 25 May expressing deep concern.
The EU used the opportunity to stress the importance it attaches to the development of civil society and reiterated that programmes to this end were an integral part of the EU's bilateral programming with Egypt.
It also welcomes the fact that the High Court of Malaya, in setting free two of the ISA detainees under writs of habeas corpus on 30 May, called on the Malaysian Parliament to review the ISA thoroughly.
The Commission is ready to support EU action to press the issue of the human rights situation in general, and of the ISA in particular, with the government of Malaysia on all appropriate occasions.
The Commission, like Parliament, is deeply disturbed by the ever-worsening humanitarian and political situation in Afghanistan.
This is in line with the EU common position on Afghanistan, which sets the objective of providing effective humanitarian aid on the basis of an impartial needs assessment.
Commission representatives regularly take part in field visits and assessment missions inside Afghanistan in order to see conditions at first hand and to ensure that aid can be directed towards the areas of greatest need.
On the political front, Commission representatives, acting as part of the EU troika, have sought to persuade the two factions in the current conflict to promote a peaceful solution.
The EU troika, consisting of its ambassadorial representatives based in Islamabad, recently visited Kandahar and Faizabad to explain the EU's common position on the Taleban side.
The EU, with other partners, is currently looking at how best to promote a process of engagement.
The history of the country shows clearly that no one faction can ever impose itself and its political and cultural philosophy on the whole country.
The EU, at the same time, supports the peace efforts of the UN and stresses the need for a broad-based government in the country.
The joint debate is closed.
Mr President, as far as Nepal is concerned, even though we are all aware that this is a tragedy of Shakespearean proportions, I think that our main problem as the European Parliament is how to face the future.
I call on all honourable Members to support the amendment tabled by Mr Messner, which calls on our President to allow a delegation from Parliament to go to Nepal at the earliest opportunity.
I think that the role of this delegation is crucial.
The situation is extremely fragile and I am sure that a gesture, such as the presence of three Members of the European Parliament in Nepal, could have a positive influence on the development of the situation.
Mr President, following the tragedy in Nepal, which wiped out almost the entire royal family, this tiny kingdom in the Himalayas is now threatened with civil war.
We must also remember that it is hemmed in between Tibet, which now belongs to China, and India, with tensions threatening to come to a head between these two heavily populated countries.
We would like to tell the people of Nepal that they have our solidarity.
His espousal of democracy, of a majority party system, gave a great deal of hope to this country, a country which - as Reinhold quite rightly says - is so bitterly poor economically but so rich culturally.
The tragedy in the royal palace in Kathmandu, in which King Birendra, his wife Aishwarya and other members of the family died, leaves a vacuum.
So if a delegation is to take part, it must be the SAARC delegation of the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to express my solidarity with the pain of the Nepalese people, who are currently experiencing one of the most difficult moments in their history.
The European Union attaches great importance to respect for human rights and to democratic principles.
The Commission will monitor future developments with the utmost attention to make sure that all parties act in respect for democratic principles and human rights, in conformity with the basic provisions of Article 1 of the EC-Nepal Cooperation Agreement.
As you know, the Commission has consistently supported Nepal in its quest for social and economic development.
The EC has granted EUR 160 million in cooperation assistance since 1977, and the current rate is around EUR 50 million a year.
The joint debate is closed.
I welcome the fact that the Swedish Presidency has applied itself to this question and provided a declaration.
Of course we welcome the fact that statements have recently been made both by President dos Santos and by the leadership of UNITA expressing the intention to start a dialogue.
Mr President, the complex situation occurring in Angola deserves constant, careful attention, and therefore I believe the inclusion of the matter yet again on this Parliament' s agenda is justified, since the search for peace and the encouragement of all those who effectively seek it must be a central objective of our institution.
Because of the consistency required of it, however, this House cannot wipe out its earlier resolutions or the more or less recent positions of the other Community institutions and international bodies, especially the Council, which has particular competences in this matter.
Indeed, as I understand it, nothing can justify the fact that the above-mentioned positions and omissions can remain in a resolution by this Parliament, and they are in fact the essential reason why we have not subscribed to the compromise.
Furthermore, we are amazed at the blatant gulf between what was approved and reiterated recently by the Council and what is now proposed, even more so when some of the principal supporters of the current compromise originate from the same political force that shapes a government which so recently defined and adopted the position taken up by the Council.
Amid the news of the terrible ongoing war, it is these signs of peace that are strongly emerging from the civil society of Angola and which make our vote today so urgent.
They know more and better than we do.
Because the tragic recent history of Angola teaches us one thing: we must only trust those who talk of peace without arms in their hands, with gestures and instruments of peace.
This Angola of peace hopes that we will be able to send out new, different signs to the new signs with which it is challenging us.
I also believe that there are many amongst us who have a bad conscience concerning what we said about Angola in the past.
Now it is a matter of putting a stop to this, of looking at what is singled out in the UN' s reports - including the reports requested by the parliaments of the Member States - and also of pointing the finger at the presidents: those holding power in Togo or Burkina Faso who have, in their own way, contributed to the buying of diamonds or oil.
In our view, however, at this precise moment when a little window of hope is opened with declarations from the main players responsible and initiatives in civil society for peace, our role is to encourage this movement.
We must tell the people of Angola and the political leaders that the international community is willing to collaborate in the search for peace.
The General Affairs Council said so at its meeting on 11 June in Luxembourg.
We are pleased with the compromise text that it has been possible to draw up and we shall vote against the proposals that may disfigure it, not because we disagree with the content of several of them, but because what is expected of us today are words of encouragement and not of recrimination.
Mr President, my fellow Members of Parliament, representatives of the Commission, I too approve of the draft resolution on Angola, which has resulted from a compromise and in my view is a moderate and well balanced draft.
The situation of Angola is a tragic situation.
The war can only end through negotiation among those that wage it and through pressure from Angolan civil society, which is at last emerging.
There are independent voices of civil society that are appealing for peace, especially those supported by the Angolan Catholic Church, which has played an extremely important role in this, and by all the other churches, which are exerting great pressure for peace, that is, for negotiations for peace.
This is the pressure that we must support, both the European Union as a whole and this part of it which is the European Parliament.
This oral amendment would condemn all massacres from whatever source, because there is not just the Cachito massacre but also the massacres that have happened recently, for example, in Cabinda.
As established in the common position adopted on 11-12 June 2001 by the European Union, the Commission remains committed to supporting initiatives contributing to a political solution to the Angolan conflict.
The Commission's strategy of assistance is delivery of a flexible package of emergency and rehabilitation assistance according to the changing requirements, as well as the creation of conditions which enable structural development actions to be undertaken.
The joint debate is closed and that concludes the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Determining the resources available for intervention, the training of assessment and coordination teams to intervene in emergencies, and a common rapid communication system are aspects on which this proposal is based in order to meet the objectives of protecting citizens, the environment and natural and cultural resources.
The most important factors for achieving these objectives are: creating a management, coordination and information operations centre; identifying available resources in the Member States; training programmes for intervention teams and for experts in the assessment of needs and the coordination of transport, resources and teams and establishing a joint emergency communications system linking all available civil protection teams.
It is obvious that the current situation differs in each of the Member States: in Germany and Spain there is a clear delimitation of Autonomous Communities - regions - which have their own civil protection mechanisms, and also in the towns and municipalities.
In the other countries the civil protection service is more centralised.
The honourable Member has just mentioned one which caused very serious damage in several Member States and neighbouring countries.
The citizens of Europe have expressed their concern and made clear that they expect the Community to take specific action to guarantee efficient civil protection in an emergency.
The Commission proposal of 27 September last year makes provision for a Community procedure for civil protection intervention in the event of natural, technological or environmental disaster inside or outside the European Union.
I refer here to parts of Amendments Nos 5, 14 and 16.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report unanimously approved in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 25 April on Community measures for the control of classical swine fever proposes an early diagnosis system and maintenance of the Community method for controlling the disease and slaughter, since not enough progress has yet been made on marker vaccines.
The reason for applying a policy of non-vaccination is based on the fact that in the event of infection vaccinated pigs may become carriers of the virus, especially pregnant sows, which may not show signs of the disease but may transmit it horizontally to the other pigs on the farm and vertically to their progeny, which may include persistently infected piglets.
In addition, as regards the differentiation of animals that have been vaccinated or have had the disease and generated antibodies, this differentiation between vaccinated and infected animals is not yet reliable.
Research will have to continue into this until these marker vaccines are effectively reliable and we are able to use differential methods that indicate whether the animals have been vaccinated or have had the disease.
Several amendments to this document have been tabled which your rapporteur feels deserve some comment.
These two amendments go a little beyond what I could have imagined, since in my country the use of swill has been banned for more than twenty years.
I therefore understand that both Amendment No 33 and Amendment No 37 are acceptable because they may lead us to a more realistic solution to the animal feed control problem.
We happened to be in one of those meetings on Tuesday 20 February this year, the very day the first outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the UK was reported.
As Mrs Redondo has just said, Amendment No 33 seeks to permit controlled swill feeding, subject to stringent exceptional arrangements, if it can be guaranteed that the pathogens which cause epizootic diseases have been destroyed by treatment.
Amendment No 37 seeks to achieve a similar objective.
I would ask the House to reject both these amendments this evening.
This simple error, whether deliberate or just a mistake, has led to the destruction of over six million animals in the United Kingdom and tens of thousands of animals in Ireland, the Netherlands and France.
Another important point is the principle of regionalisation.
The European Union already applies this principle to third country imports.
It is a densely populated region and there are even more pigs than people.
If it is not reliable, for example because the disease can still be transmitted via the placenta, then it would seem sensible to me that it cannot be used with sows but that it can still be of use in other cases.
Unfortunately the discussion of the Redondo Jiménez report is ending in an anticlimax.
This morning we voted on the Busk report, in which we are trying to improve the living conditions of pigs in great detail.
I have requested a roll-call vote on this report and on Mr Mulder' s amendment, so that the public can see from Members' voting behaviour the double tongue of this Parliament on animal welfare.
Norms and values apply not only in church but in the sty too.
In the 1997 outbreak of swine fever in the Netherlands, thousands of healthy pigs had to be destroyed and then too there was a call for vaccination.
Swine fever, like foot-and-mouth, does re-emerge from time to time in different Member States throughout the European Union.
You need only look at everything we have at our disposal, and at the costs incurred in this senseless slaughter of thousands of innocent animals.
You cannot prevent a failure by a single individual and it only takes one person not to follow those controls and the feeding of swill creates a real problem as seems to have been the case in the United Kingdom with foot-and-mouth.
I understand that it will be very difficult and take time to secure agreement between all the parties involved - our trade partners and everyone else.
The main purpose of the Commission proposal is to update the existing control provisions on swine fever, so as to take into account the most recent knowledge and experience acquired in controlling its agent.
This House is well aware that in 1997/1998, a major outbreak of classical swine fever occurred in several Member States.
The Commission has immediately taken a decision, in full consultation with the Spanish authorities, to impose restrictions on exports from this region.
The decision taken today has immediate effect until 30 June and will be reviewed in the meantime.
A single farm is concerned, and I am happy to say that he informed me that all of the animals moved from that farm before confirmation had been slaughtered.
Clearly, their use can only be envisaged in an emergency situation and once laboratory tests are available to discriminate between vaccinated and infected animals.
The report of Madame Redondo largely supports the main aspects of the Commission proposal and of course, I am obviously very pleased about this.
However, allow me to address in detail the amendments, which have been proposed.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 to 5, 26, 28 and 30, as they go beyond the scope of this directive.
The report deals for example with the implementation of controls on imports of live animals and products, traceability, financing of costs related to animal diseases and future animal health problems, which may emerge in relation to enlargement.
But these complex issues cannot be addressed in this directive.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 6 to 8, 12, 16 to 18, 22, 24, 25 and 29, which contain certain technical details of relatively minor importance, for which the Commission considers the text of its proposal more suitable.
Amendment No 15 concerns the establishment of Community financed market support measures, in case of prolonged standstill of pigs in holdings kept under movement restrictions due to an outbreak of swine fever.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment, as such decisions must be taken on a case-by-case basis.
The legal basis for doing so already exists in the framework of the common market organisation for pig meat.
This mechanism demonstrated its efficiency and there is no need for further legal provisions in this regard.
Amendments Nos 20 and 21 concern the role of different authorities in the control of classical swine fever in wild boar.
The Commission cannot accept these amendments, as it is for the Member States to ensure that all authorities potentially involved in the control of the disease are given a proper role.
Amendment No 23 concerns the introduction of an article on the potential use of marker vaccines.
However, we will take into account Parliament's remarks in a new recital.
Amendments Nos 20 and 29 concern the legal status of the classical swine fever diagnostic manual, which the Commission intends to adopt.
The Commission feels that this could create confusion from a legal point of view and thus cannot accept these amendments.
However, some modifications will be introduced in the text to reinforce the concept but the manual must be an essential part of Community legislation on swine fever.
Amendments Nos 24 and 25 note the need for some transitional provisions on contingency plans, which are indeed already in Article 28 of the proposal.
While the Commission shares the views of the Parliament, it cannot accept these amendments.
On this last issue, I can only add to what I have already said in this Chamber last Tuesday, during the debate on the regulation of animal by-products, that the Commission is committed to ensure consistency between this directive and that regulation.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2-8, 12, 13, 15-18, 20-26, 28-30 and 33-37.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Protocol that is today submitted for our approval, between the European Union and the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros originates in the initial 1988 agreement and refers to the fifth period of this agreement; in other words, this is the fourth time the initial agreement has been renewed.
The present agreement, which as I have said retains a line of continuity from the previous one, introduces only some slight quantitative changes to the number of vessels authorised to fish and to the volume of catches, and also some changes - slight as to the amount involved but appreciable in structural terms - to the financial contribution made by the Union and the companies that will benefit from the agreement.
The authorised catch volume is set at 4 600 tonnes, slightly above the previous agreement' s 4 500 tonnes but quite a long way below the historical levels of 1988 to 1994 of 6 000 tonnes.
The number of vessels authorised to fish is set at 65: 40 tuna seiners and 25 surface longliners.
There is an increase in the overall number of vessels, which goes up from 60 to 65.
These figures in fact reflect the utilisation levels achieved in practice during the time the previous agreement was in force, which were 75 to 80% for tuna seiners and over 90% for longliners, which are precisely those that have now been increased in number.
Turning now to the financial contribution, this is set at just over EUR one million: EUR 1 050 750, to be precise, or the equivalent of EUR 350 000 for each year the agreement lasts.
The main change in this section concerns the structure of this financial contribution.
Whereas in the previous agreement it was split 50-50 between funds allocated for compensation and those intended for targeted measures; that is, support measures for development of the local fishing sector, technical programmes, etc.
Under the new agreement, however, the funds allocated to these targeted measures make up 60% of the financial contribution.
That means there is greater effort, so to say, in the development contribution to the detriment of the purely commercial aspects.
In real terms, the rate per tonne of catch goes up from EUR 20 to EUR 25.
It is, as I say, a fair and balanced agreement, which has been passed by a very large majority in the committee and which I now ask this House to vote for.
In this policy of buying, on behalf of Community fleets, fish from third countries, I often ask myself whether it might not be better to spend the money in another way, in the interests of the regions which we set out to help.
We are obviously sending - as the rapporteur pointed out - something like 65 vessels (mostly Spanish and French) into these waters.
I would like to take it further and have a social evaluation of the money we spend, to find out whether or not we contribute to the improvement of the economic and social situation of certain regions in Spain or France, where this money is supposed to go, or whether in fact we just give a licence to a small number of people, who control quite a lot of capital, to exploit the waters of a country which is in no position to control its own resources.
The new protocol refers solely to tuna and makes provision - as already mentioned - for fishing opportunities for a total of 65 ships.
The financial contribution paid in return will be EUR 350 000 per annum.
A brief word on the proposed amendments.
It is an integral part of our agreement policy and all negotiating guidelines state that financial compensation for fishing opportunities must be paid partly from the EU budget and partly by the shipowners.
The debate is closed.
That is your prerogative, Mr Sylla.
Before the vote on Angola: Mr President, this is not exactly an oral amendment but rather a point of fact, and if there is no objection I would like to ask that it be corrected in the text of the joint resolution.
On the vote on Angola: Mr President, in order to obtain as broad a consensus and as broad an agreement as possible, I would suggest that we introduce an oral addendum to replace Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 as a new No 5a which reads as follows - and I trust you will forgive my poor French, I did not know we had a French-speaking president in the chair: "Condemns all the massacres against the civilian population perpetrated by the military forces in place" .
If agreed, this would replace Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4.
In fact, the proposal seeks to create a body within the Commission which will coordinate the actions in the Member States.
The mechanism will cost EUR 1.5 million per year, which will be charged to the B4-3300 budget heading entitled 'Community cooperation for civil protection and situations of environmental urgency' for which there exists another legal basis that authorises a multiannual programme (2000-2004), whose grant is EUR 7.5 million.
In any case, I feel that this proposal for a decision is to be supported, and I announce that my group will be voting in favour.
Redondo Jiménez report (A5-0143/2001) . (DE) Classical swine fever is one of the scourges of the animal world in Europe.
Using marker vaccines would give us another very useful tool with which to fight the disease in areas with a high density of pigs, obviating the need for wholesale slaughter.
Too little attention was paid to animal diseases, animal welfare and human health.
Yet this obvious safety measure is not taken.
