rapporteur. - Mr President, I look forward to this debate, and particularly to hearing from those who are not so keen on enhancing transparency and public access to documents.
In particular, they are, and I quote: 'therefore, glad to see that Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs adopted a report on 17 February 2009 that shares our vision of a more transparent Union'.
Some Members have raised doubts about whether all the amendments that my report proposes are within the scope of the legal basis of the regulation - Article 255 of the Treaty.
I should like to set their minds at rest: the object of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 is: 'to give the public a right of access to documents of the institution which is as wide as possible.
It is in the spirit of that judgment that we must interpret Article 255 of the Treaty.
Take our Amendment 44 on classified documents.
It is simply disingenuous to say, as the Commission has, that the classification of documents as confidential has no link with public access to such documents.
If you read our Amendment 29, for example, you will see that the regulation applies only to documents held by the institutions, although it does set the standards that agencies will be expected to follow in adopting their own rules on public access to their documents, in accordance, I might add, with the joint declaration adopted by the Council, the Commission and Parliament on 30 May 2001.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for a very substantive report on the Commission's proposal for a recast of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 regarding public access to documents.
At the same time, Parliament, Council and Commission also agree that legitimate interests have received adequate protection.
So I hope you agree that Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 has proven its value.
The legal base we have as our starting point is Article 255 of the Treaty, as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur.
But - and this is an important 'but' - they point to important issues that may well be addressed in another context.
We are committed to continuing to enhance transparency and openness, and I firmly believe that this is a good way to do it.
In this context, however, I have to mention that a number of the amendments concern provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 which the Commission did not propose to amend.
Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 will then apply to all institutions, bodies, agencies and offices of the European Union, albeit to a limited extent for the Court of Justice, the European Central Bank and the European Investment Bank.
That is why I announced at the joint committee meeting of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs of 20 January that I am taking the initiative to prepare an openness action plan.
There are some amendments the Commission cannot accept because they go beyond the legal base of Article 255 of the Treaty.
The subject deserves that, and our citizens are entitled to expect clear and well-functioning legislation on public access to our documents.
Unfortunately, the European Union can hardly brag about its transparency.
The fact is that the European institutions do not guarantee citizens genuine access to the content of documents without imposing discrimination of a technical nature.
The second point - and this is very interesting - is that this report is based on principles and not technicalities; a balance between access to documents and the safeguarding of private life; a generalised access to documents but with very precise rules; a very important distinction between public and private interests and this notion of European public interest which is very important to those of us who love Europe; a distinction between legislative and non-legislative procedures which is also interesting; parity between EU transparency and Member State transparency.
Lastly, the most important thing is that this report tries to establish a complete system of transparency - not transparency for every institution separately, but transparency on an interinstitutional basis where all the institutions are taken into account and where the principles of good administration and the Charter of Fundamental Rights are also taken into account.
This simply cannot be tolerated when we know that the European Union has legislative powers and citizens have a right to information throughout the entire legislative process.
As confirmed and demonstrated by the judgment in the Maurizio Turco case, citizens have a right to information on the positions of national delegations within the Council as well as on legal opinions.
Commissioner Wallström said that a good tool can always be improved.
This is completely unacceptable.
In a legislative process, though, in the trialogue, when we discuss things amongst ourselves, there also has to be a place for carrying out negotiations.
I hope that you are now in favour of increasing public access within the EU, so that the Swedish Presidency, together with the rest of us, will be able to take this important and key democratic issue further for all EU citizens.
People have to have the widest possible access to all information at the early stages of the decisions taken by the institutions, or on the background to these decisions, so that they can fully participate in the formulation of policies.
Unfortunately, communication between the European Union and its citizens is not keeping up with these changes.
Every citizen of the European Union and any natural or legal person residing or established in a Member State has the right to access European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
It is therefore our duty to increase the transparency and effectiveness of the institutions of the European Union to the greatest degree possible.
I can give you one example of what can be done, which is that I have already made my own correspondence register available on the Internet, so you can see my correspondence and documents.
A more precise definition of documents means safer administration and more clarity for citizens.
The bottom line will always be the rules in Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
That is also true within this House, and today's debate has shown that it is not always that easy.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission each have their role, which should be respected, and I hope Parliament will speak with one strong voice, because that will benefit us all and benefit the end result, which I hope will be a balanced and workable compromise text.
Accept our principles.
So said Barack Obama on 21 January 2009.
I await a comparable announcement from the Commission or, indeed, from President Barroso.
European citizens have every right to know what these arguments and interventions are.
At least the same level of transparency should also be provided at national level by the Member States for their citizens on the basis of an express requirement in the European Parliament report, a call which we hope will very shortly be adopted by governments and national parliaments.
