It is a great pleasure to be here and I hope that the good cooperation we have had in the past will continue this year.
At the same time, we need to do all we can to end the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians and between Israel and the Arab world.
The European vocation for peace in the Middle East remains as strong as ever.
I had the privilege of working with him in 2001 on the famous report and just recently, I have had the opportunity to work with him in the region.
Egypt's role in resolving the situation in Gaza, and indeed with the Palestinians themselves, remains crucial.
We also stated our readiness to re-dispatch our monitors to the Rafah crossing point, in accordance with the agreement that we signed in 2005.
The Gaza Strip constitutes an integral part of the Palestinian territory occupied in 1967 and, without any doubt, will be part of a Palestinian state.
As you know, the diplomatic fall-out of the Gaza conflict in the wider region has been very significant: indirect talks between Syria and Israel have been suspended; Mauritania and Qatar have suspended ties with Israel; a withdrawal of the Arab Peace Initiative was threatened.
Peace in the Middle East requires a united Arab world.
The upcoming Arab League summit will be crucial to restore Arab unity, in particular, behind the Arab Peace Initiative.
In the coming months, we will also have elections in Iran and in Lebanon.
On 12 June, the Iranians will vote for a new President.
Let me conclude by saying that 2009 will be critical for the Middle East.
It has left the Middle East peace process - we have to confess - in a particularly fragile state.
This House knows that only too well, and I refer to the discussions and debates that we have already had here.
We also need to reinforce the message to the Palestinians that a strong Palestinian Authority with effective leadership over the entire occupied Palestinian territory is essential both for the reunification of the West Bank and Gaza and to get the peace process back on track.
The European Union as a whole has been extremely active in recent weeks both on the political and practical fronts.
We have been at the forefront of calls for a ceasefire and have worked with Egypt and others to make a lasting ceasefire possible.
In addition, Commissioner Louis Michel, who is responsible for humanitarian aid, visited Gaza on 24 and 25 January.
The Commission has already mobilised EUR 10 million practically overnight, and another EUR 32 million has now been committed for the coming period.
I am delighted that I had the opportunity to discuss the pledge that the Commission intends to make with the Chairs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets at an early stage here in Parliament on 2 February.
We have been very vocal, both in public and in private, about the unacceptable closure of the Gaza crossings.
Just today, the European Union has granted EUR 41 million in aid to the United Nations Agency for Palestine Refugees.
That is the objective of the donor conference that meets in Sharm el-Sheikh on 2 March.
Egypt, which has a particular responsibility due to its location on the border with Gaza, must take an active part in this negotiation process.
The basic precondition for this, however, is to be talking with Hamas, that those amongst the Palestinian people who want to talk with Hamas be supported and that they not be forced onto the defensive by a government in Jerusalem that knows only the politics of continuing the settlements.
As a side point, if it is true that 163 hectares have now been re-released for settlement, this is a destabilising element and this is something that we need to be absolutely forthright in making clear to our friends in Israel.
The Arab League's plan, Saudi Arabia's peace plan, envisages an end to violence with simultaneous recognition of Israel's right to exist.
As dialogue is very much a sine qua non for success, I would like to say to you, on behalf of my group, that you represent the personification of dialogue.
For that, you have our sincere appreciation. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mr Schulz.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, it is with heavy hearts that we debate once again what our Union can do to ease the pain in the Middle East.
Last month's violence and the outcome of this month's election have changed the terms of the debate.
Its envoy, Tony Blair, has never even been to Gaza.
There should be a free and fair international investigation into alleged war crimes in the Gaza conflict.
Mr Solana, we must pioneer a new path to peace, and the European Union, if necessary, must take the lead. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, High Representative and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, I warmly welcome today's settlement to provide humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip.
Like Martin Schulz, I congratulate Javier Solana on walking that long lonely path of speaking to people that nobody else would speak to, of opening the doors of dialogue, because ultimately only through dialogue between enemies can you make peace, and only through peace can you build the foundations of a solid two-state solution that will guarantee peace, equity, security and justice within the Middle East.
We have to support the reconciliation process in Palestine as part of achieving a long-term solution, and that means ensuring that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. (Applause) Mr President, Mr Solano, Commissioner, as I listened nearly a month ago to the children of Gaza speak, amongst the ruins of their house, of how they had trembled as the bombs fell, or to their parents describe the hell of those 22 days and nights that will forever mark their lives and the memory of future generations, I was not proud of Europe.
I would still like to believe in an about-turn by Europe. (Applause) (IND/DEM). - Mr President, today we are debating a resolution about humanitarian aid.
I note in recital E of this resolution that we Europeans give ourselves a nice pat on the back for our humanitarian aid efforts.
In fact, we are rejoining NATO even though the Cold War has been over since 1990.
Therefore, we will do everything in our power to alleviate the great hardships of daily life in Gaza.
It seems to me, honourable Members - and this is my personal opinion - that if there is a Palestinian consensus government, a government whose goal is the Two States, a government whose goal is to build these Two States through peaceful means, a government that has a programme of reconstruction in Gaza, and a government that attempts to build an electoral process in 2009, I believe that such a government is one that the European Union should support.
I believe that the most recent data concerning the state of the settlements in 2008, published by the Government of Israel, ought to make all of us feel responsible.
It is essential that we cooperate with all the countries of the Arab League to ensure that the peace initiative signed by the Arab League remains in force.
Therefore, whatever the cost, we will all have to work in order to bring about peace.
People all over the world were horrified at the low level of international response when more than 1 000 Palestinians - including more than 300 children - were killed during the recent Israeli attack on Gaza.
A proactive, long-term strategy from Europe and from the new US Government must include the right of Palestinians to a sustainable state - based on the borders that were there before 1967.
The security of Israel and a free state of Palestine must be achieved, but the situation where Israel is using security as an excuse to destroy the lives of innocent Palestinians must be ended.
It must suspend the Association Agreement and any strengthening of bilateral relations with Israel, such as those advocated by the External Relations Council on 8 and 9 December.
It must demand and fight for respect for the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to an independent and sovereign state, with the 1967 borders and a capital in East Jerusalem.
The recent elections in Israel and the new US administration offer the opportunity for a new beginning in the Middle East peace process.
The second is that our approach must be aimed at avoiding, as far as possible, violence by both sides, condemning Palestinian extremism and excessive measures adopted by Israel, as well as supporting moderate governance solutions from both sides which are capable of facilitating the peace process.
The situation affecting Gaza's population is tragic and must be resolved urgently.
The flagrant violation of human rights and freedoms in this region is a cause for concern for the European Union, from the perspective of both its relations with Israel and of security and stability in the Middle East.
The European Union must adopt urgent measures to provide humanitarian assistance to the population in the Gaza region, while also thinking in the medium and long term about measures designed to promote peace, security and stability in the area.
The European Union should also do everything in its power to bring about an end to the dispute in which innocent citizens are losing their lives.
The European Union has an opportunity to help the Arab world, and all the countries of the Middle East, to become a region where prosperity prevails, which will, in turn, create a framework for closer cooperation between the Middle East and the EU.
