I hope that the French State, the city of Strasbourg and the European Parliament will be able to take steps to put such small matters right in so expensive a building.
Mr President, I do not have any comment to make on the Minutes, but I do want to say something about the European Parliament' s information services.
Right then, a fellow MEP has just given me the session news about the debate we had yesterday on the Ludford report, and I am disappointed to note that it makes no mention of the statement I made on behalf of our Group.
Very well, Mr Manders, we take note of all of that. (The Minutes were approved) Vote Whether national or European, any central bank exclusively serves the interests of big investors.
This report sets a precedent, as it is the first time that the Council has consulted Parliament on these measures.
The European Parliament would like the Commission to make these priorities, which are priority objectives for agriculture in 2000, easier to visualise in these next information measures.
However, another negative aspect of the Commission' s proposal relates to limiting cofinancing to a rate of 75%, when actions implemented directly by the Commission are financed at a rate of 100%.
But when we come to think about it the amount of money is quite small - EUR 27 million over a period of six years.
That is why I welcome that fact that most of it will be spent at the rate of 50% rather than 75%.
One of the things that was not widely understood was the importance of this policy from a social point of view: the fact is, that in all the depressed regions of the Union, the common agricultural policy has maintained the population and supported communities, in a social sense, that would not otherwise have survived.
These have to be explained, not only to farmers, but to consumers as well.
Amendments Nos 2 and 6 concern organisations falling within the scope of aid.
This being the case, the proposed addenda are unnecessary.
Amendments Nos 5, 8 and 10 concern measures that are eligible for aid.
They are unnecessary, as they are already contained in the Commission' s proposal.
Local bodies are better qualified to do that.
Amendment No 10 concerns Article 5.
Amendments Nos 7 and 13 concern contributions.
Amendments Nos 9 and 12 concern the allocation and approval of appropriations.
For this reason, the Commission thinks Amendment No 9 is not necessary.
Amendment No 11 concerns evaluation.
Amendment No 4 concerns administration.
Amendments Nos 1 and 3 concern linguistic nuances.
These the Commission does not consider significant, as Recitals 4 and 7 in the Commission' s proposal are not as restrictive.
The debate is closed.
The European Parliament has been analysing this proposal since October 1999 and approved this draft legislative resolution unanimously on 23 February 2000.
First, Amendment No 1 on the inclusion of a Recital 2a.
Secondly, Parliament' s Amendment No 2 proposes that seed vetches should also be included in the aid system.
Thirdly, Amendment No 3 indicates that, in our opinion, the Commission should, without further delay, make proposals for the 2000-2003 period.
Before I finish, Mr President, I would like to point out that in 1993 - which is some time ago now - the Council indicated that it intended to gradually strengthen the current aid system for grain legumes.
Therefore, Mr President, what the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament would really like to see is an improvement in the system.
That is why we are presenting this proposal, which is really a maintenance proposal, and what we are saying to the Commission is that, without further delay, proposals must be drawn up at the latest for the 2000-2003 period to achieve an improvement in this system without decreasing aid.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report that is being proposed for approval today in plenary refers to a minimal reform of Regulation 1577/96 on aid for the grain legume sector.
Mr President, I am participating in this discussion in order to support the report by my colleague, María Izquierdo, whose proposals, like those of the Commission, seem to me to be beneficial and of interest.
Grain legumes are a traditional crop in certain areas of southern Europe, including Spain and, more specifically, Castilla-La Mancha, the region I come from, which contains one third of the total area dedicated to these crops in Spain.
The fact is that the system of aid established in 1989 has been modified several times, but no report has been presented on the application of the present system.
We are in a situation in which the Agenda 2000 reform has been adopted and international trade negotiations are drawing closer.
The debate is closed.
Member States are not legally required to demonstrate additionality at the regional or programme level.
The ex-ante verification of additionality is at present being undertaken in application of Article 11 of Regulation 1260/99.
I do not think that there is a more important issue in Wales at the moment than the application of Objective 1 funds and it is important to look at the background to the issues that we are currently considering.
The additionality issue is an important one, but I must say it is not the only one which gives much concern to many Members of this European Parliament.
Mr President, I should just like to touch on a couple of points that Mr Evans raised.
It is right that we have a proper discussion on the whole question of the Structural Funds.
I am referring to the report by the Court of Auditors on the principle of additionality.
This is a report that was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 9 March.
This report contains a very interesting section - section 62 - that discusses privatisation.
And the response given to us by the Commission in section 62 is very short.
There is a further problem, which should also not be hidden from the Commission or the members of this House: we are talking about the impending enlargement of the European Union with thirteen new Member States, most of which have a far lower average income than that of the poorest regions of the Community and there are no plans to fulfil cohesion policies with regard to these candidate Member States.
Mr President, while I endorse everything that Mr Medina Ortega has said, I would like to say that, although we are a tiny Group with very little time to speak, I did refer to the report of the Court of Auditors that he mentioned, which is indeed from 9 March this year.
Mr President, Commissioner, as has been said here, EU funds cannot replace Member States' public expenditure and the structural aid that runs parallel with it.
The Commission must oblige the Member States to work in such a way that the principle of additionality is implemented both nationally and regionally.
President, it is a great pity indeed that Commissioner Barnier has been unable to be present here this morning, because this is a matter within his brief which is causing great concern not only in Scotland and Wales but in other parts of the Union.
Indeed parts of my own constituency, the West Midlands, have been awarded £550 million under the Objective II strand.
The Structural Funds programme provides, in many cases, the single most important and positive opportunity for our own worst-hit and most deprived areas to get up off their knees and back on their feet.
It is a great shame, therefore, that just by having this debate today, we are signalling our awareness that money from the Structural Funds programme is not allocated in many Member States as it should be.
It is all very well for my colleague Jonathan Evans to imply that his party is not guilty.
The Scottish Conservative Party candidate in Ayr, John Scott, has humiliated Labour into third place - 5 000 or more votes behind.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on 11 April.
