The impact of cohesion policy on the integration of vulnerable communities and groups (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Gábor Harangozó, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the impact of cohesion policy on the integration of vulnerable communities and groups.
rapporteur. - (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
I would like to cite Hungary as an example: in Hungary, per capita GDP in the central region has reached 110% of the European Union average; in four out of Hungary's seven regions, however, per capita GDP is less than 45% of the EU average.
There are several micro-regions, for example in Hungary, where the life expectancy of the male population is more than 15 years lower than the national average.
To avoid economic growth being accompanied by social polarisation in our society, cohesion policy targets social exclusion, in particular the integration of vulnerable communities and groups, and it will remain a cohesion policy goal in the future.
It is also true that problems identified in the report are at the frontier between territorial cohesion, on the one hand, and social cohesion challenges on the other, and social polarisation and social segregation problems, when concentrated on some territories, become territorial cohesion issues.
We face social exclusion in the poorest territories of the European Union, but we also have pockets of social deprivation in the richest cities of the European Union.
As a result, the expenditure 2000-2006 is today broken down to the NUTS 3 level, to 20 categories of expenditure at this level, and is available for Objective I regions, Objective II, Urban, Interreg and Cohesion Fund.
draftsman of the opinion for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (PT) As draftsman of the opinion for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I reiterate the need to support rural areas, including mountain regions, where women play a central role.
I also stress the need to support all less-favoured regions, areas with permanent structural disadvantages, the outermost regions and areas subject to industrial restructuring, relocalisation and company closures in order to reinforce economic and social cohesion and the social inclusion of vulnerable communities and groups.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for his work in producing the report that has been presented to us today.
on behalf of the ALDE group. - (RO) Honourable President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Rapporteur for his work.
Honourable President, I believe that the absence of statistics regarding the spreading of these groups and their degree of social exclusion, as well as the incapacity of the indicators for measuring inter-regional disparities to supply viable data, prove, one more time, the need for the Member States and the Commission to cooperate more closely in order to obtain a real image of the situation of vulnerable regions and groups, as well as to set up concrete programmes and strategies for territorial development and overcoming social exclusion.
Let us help our fellow citizens, who are subject to discrimination in one way or another, so that they can regain their belief in escaping from a lowly position in society.
We also need volunteers and non-governmental organisations. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, I am grateful to Mr Harangozó for his attention to vulnerable groups.
The cohesion policy has made an effective contribution to reducing these inequalities, but a lot remains to be done, as discussed in the fourth report on cohesion.
Member States and regional administrations need strategies to revitalise vulnerable areas, develop their infrastructure and promote genuine development opportunities in accordance with their specific economic potential, while maintaining services of general interest through local administrations strengthened by the decentralisation of the public sector. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the targeted, issue-specific nature of the Harangozó report represents an extremely significant move by the European Parliament to reach out to vulnerable communities and groups, and integrate them smoothly, through a European cohesion policy.
The European Parliament has already given its attention to this category in a special report, the scope of which should have been broader in order to cover both the social and geographical aspects.
That is why the policy, strategy and actions to address the problems of vulnerable groups must be comprehensive, based on a common approach on behalf of our institutions at European, national and local level. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to congratulate Gábor Harangozó on the excellent job he has done and for his thoughts on this complex and delicate subject.
Cohesion policy must, in my view, seek to maintain income-generating agricultural and non-agricultural activities in rural areas, in order to maintain a population that is often tempted by rural exodus, but also to welcome new arrivals.
We do not want the cohesion policies to be compared to Emmental cheese, which looks very compact on the outside. (SK) The report in question correctly highlights the relationship between solving social issues and regional development, and the need for Europe to show solidarity and implement the cohesion policy in this area.
I know from experience that their services on behalf of underprivileged social groups and regions are very effective and often indispensable.
Therefore, we have to see these services as an integral part of the European effort to help vulnerable groups and support them adequately at European level. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to point out that with this report we are expressing our conviction that, 20 years after it was formulated, cohesion policy must continue to bring the solidarity of the Union not only to the most disadvantaged regions and countries, but also to the most disadvantaged communities and groups among our citizens.
The challenges faced by our regions today are such that they do not allow us to leave the problems of poverty and social and territorial exclusion unresolved.
Other areas, including rural areas, develop much more slowly, and this means that they are much more susceptible to problems.
Taking into account the principle of solidarity, which is generally respected in the European Union, together with the content of point N, I would like the allocation of resources from European funds to support the integration of economically disadvantaged areas.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think this was a good discussion and I would like to thank all those who contributed to the debate, which showed that the integrated policy approach is the best way to address effectively the problem of different vulnerable communities and groups.
The link between cohesion policy and rural development policy seems particularly important here.
rapporteur. - (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
I would like to say to Mrs Petre that I consider this to be a regional policy report.
Rural communities should not be demoted in the cohesion policy and a greater interlink between rural development and regional development in fighting social exclusion must be implemented.
in writing. - (PL) Cohesion policy, on which about 33% of the EU budget is spent, is of vital importance to all EU countries.
The situation is aggravated by the growing exodus of people from the countryside and the increased social exclusion in these areas.
In view of the fact that most of the nearly 10 million Roma living in Europe are affected by structural and/or absolute unemployment or participate in the grey or black economy, integration of Roma people could have a decisive impact on the outcome of the Lisbon Agenda and cohesion policy.
The European Commission and Member States must work towards ensuring the coordination and complementarity of the available financial resources; European Union financial instruments, meanwhile, and primarily the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, must be deployed to support a large number of individual programmes, from providing micro-credits to businesses to investing in infrastructure development.
