Subject: Ethnic minorities in Serbia How would the Council assess the situation of the ethnic minorities in Serbia, especially the Albanian community in the Preševo Valley, where civilians have again come under attack?
We noted the Commission's communication of 14 October, which states that the general legal and institutional framework for respecting human rights is in place in Serbia and that progress has been made as regards improving compliance with international human rights legislation.
The international community, and the OSCE in particular, is continuing to monitor the situation in southern Serbia and it is playing an active role in promoting peace and stability in the region in close cooperation with the Serbian Government and local leaders. (DE) Mrs Malmström, thank you for your excellent reply.
I would also like to ask you, in your future role as Commissioner, to ensure that these countries are developed further within the framework of the cross-border support programme.
Inner Serbia, in particular the Sandžak of Novi Pazar, is, of course, completely cut off.
We can only hope that, with our support as well as the support from OSCE, this development will continue in that direction. (DE) Violence, incidentally - and I say this to the previous speaker - is unfortunately not only occurring in Serbia, but in Kosovo, too.
When it comes to Kosovo, there is further work, independent of the fact that not all Member States have recognised Kosovo.
Creating more opportunities and equal opportunities for young people in education, training and employment is one of the principal aims of the new framework of European cooperation in the youth field during the period 2010-2018 that was adopted by the Council on 27 November 2009.
Referring to your question, sir, I am not really sure that I understood it.
I referred to the Globalisation Fund which we have now, with the help of the European Parliament, made more flexible in order to obtain support for Member States and for companies who run into difficulties to help with people who are unemployed or who are dismissed.
I would also like to mention that operational cooperation with third countries is an important element of the work carried on by Frontex.
The discussions being conducted between Frontex and the competent Turkish authorities concerning operational cooperation have now made significant progress.
The second thing I want to say is that we have noticed in Greece recently that Frontex aircraft are being harassed by the Turkish authorities.
As the Prime Minister said this morning, we are still confident that we can have a successful outcome in Copenhagen which allows us to keep the global temperature increase below 2 oC above the pre-industrial level.
Some countries, Japan and Norway, have upped their pledges but it is clear that what is currently on the table is not enough to reach the 2 °C target.
It is also clear that more is needed if we want to stay within the 2 °C warming.
However, in the absence of a binding agreement, what would our modus operandi be going forward?
This is the most important question of our generation; we cannot fail.
On 30 November 2009, the Council studied a status report from the Presidency which calls attention to the need for further work on this issue, particularly as regards the scope, provisions concerning disability and the timetable for implementation.
This needs to be discussed further.
Therefore, this problem does not only affect people with disabilities, but also the future of any elderly person, as well as all those in wheelchairs, for instance, if they need a ramp.
As I mentioned, we held a discussion on 30 November and prepared a status report, but we did not succeed in reaching a decision.
Once unanimity has been achieved, the European Parliament will naturally be asked to give its consent in accordance with Article 19 of the new Treaty of Lisbon. (LT) Thank you, Madam President and thank you, Minister Malmström for your response.
The Swedish Presidency and presidencies before us have worked to try to propose different compromises, different ways forward.
In response to your question, without first having the general overall far-reaching directive, it is very difficult to set standards of a European character in the area of discrimination against disabled people.
I think we need to work on the overall directive first.
Question 10 will not be taken as the subject to which it refers already appears in the agenda for this part-session.
Subject: Appalling murders of poor Peruvian farmers for profit Articles in the international press report that, in recent years in Peru, dozens of peasants in the Huánuco and Pasco regions have been murdered by a gang known as 'Los Pishtacos' in order to sell their body fat - reportedly amounting to 17 kilos - to European cosmetics manufacturers for 15 000 dollars per kilo.
Finally, in the Stockholm Programme approved by the European Council on 10 and 11 December this year, the need for an additional proposal as regards vulnerable groups is assessed in the light of the experience acquired from the application by the Member States of the 2000 Hague Convention on the international protection of adults, to which they will become parties in the future. (PL) Thank you very much, Mrs Malmström, for your answer, and especially for emphasising that the Council will oppose all forms of discrimination against national minorities in the European Union, including the Polish minority in Lithuania.
Subject: Persecution of Buddhist monks and nuns in Vietnam Following the adoption of the European Parliament resolution on the situation in Laos and Vietnam on 26 November 2009 (P7_TA(2009)0104), what concrete measures have been taken to address the persecution and harassment of Buddhist monks and nuns in Vietnam?
On 10 November, the Council and the Commission held a long discussion with the members of the Plum Village community.
On 26 November, the resolution from the European Parliament concerning the issue was published.
The Parliamentary resolution made this message particularly forceful, and I would like to thank the European Parliament for that.
On 8-10 December 2009, an EU delegation visited the Bat Nha monastery and the Phuoc Hue temple, to which nearly 200 remaining members of Plum Village have fled.
The EU will continue to monitor the situation at the Phuoc Hue temple very closely.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, I think this a question dear to you as well. (SV) Let me begin by reminding you of what was stated in the Council's conclusions of 8 December, where the Council writes the following: 'Iceland is a country with long and deep democratic roots, with the potential to make a significant contribution to the EU, both strategically and politically.
The application will be assessed according to the principles set out in the treaty, the criteria established at the European Council meeting in Copenhagen in 1992 and the conclusions of the European Council's meeting in December 2006.
It is of course beneficial in the long term, but Member States have not invested in the appropriate infrastructure and that is why it has taken so much time.
Subject: Successes by the Swedish Council Presidency in matters of transparency On 16 September 2009, the Swedish Presidency stated in its answer to my question that it 'shares the Honourable Member's view on the importance of increased transparency in the work of the Union'.
That makes 21 public debates held over four months.
As regards the number of public deliberations, 59 items of legislation were adopted publicly as A items within the ordinary legislative procedure and nine proposed items of legislation were discussed as B items during a public Council meeting.
In conclusion, I would like to mention that yesterday, the Swedish Presidency took the initiative for a meeting with the interinstitutional working group on transparency with Commission Vice-President Margot Wallström and Vice-President Diana Wallis.
I am thinking in particular of the Council working groups.
President-in-Office of the Council. - It is indeed a very important question.
This is due to Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, which is a very important regulation, and I am proud to have been able to take part in the birth of this regulation.
