As a German, I recall the final speech that the French President, François Mitterand, made to this Parliament in 1995.
Above all, however, I should like to thank the Council Presidency and you personally, Mrs Merkel.
You faced a mammoth task and you succeeded.
Overall I believe that the German Presidency has been successful on the two most important points: it has been successful in implementing many initiatives in the ongoing programme, and it has cooperated in exemplary fashion with the European Parliament.
We will continue to fight on this road, which Walter Hallstein described as constructio continua, and which Jean Monnet spoke of as 'step by step'.
Thank you very much, Mr Barón Crespo. (DE) President-in-Office, Mr President, my sincere congratulations on your excellent work, Madam Chancellor.
You have achieved a very good result, you have fulfilled expectations.
We are therefore pleased that at the end of your presidency we not only have a timetable, but that the contents have been agreed as well.
The Intergovernmental Conference must meet first and then things will not get moving until ratification begins in the 27 countries.
Mrs Merkel, you have said how you would like Europe's citizens to remember the year 2007 in 50 years' time.
I would like to add one hope to that: it would please me very much if in 2057 - and I might just live so long - all Europeans were to see the wonderful sentence of the Berlin Declaration 'we have united for the better' not as a decision taken in a back room but as something they experience every day.
The other areas in which the German Presidency has succeeded over the last six months are ones that we will benefit from in the future - and I say 'we' not just to mean those of us in Parliament: we as citizens and consumers within the European Union will be able to benefit from the work you have done. (DE) Madam Chancellor, you have accomplished a hard task in difficult times.
In the days that followed - and in fact even during the summit itself - it struck me from reports and interviews about this difficult situation that in the light of this loss of further integration, which was also the subject of the summit, many people actually began to think positively about Europe again.
I am extremely grateful for your negotiating skill, because I believe you were able to play very skilfully on simple matters such as how people tick and work in this Europe that is bequeathed to us.
If this treaty is a good treaty, there is also a good chance that the majority of the population will support it. - (SK) Madam Chancellor, I too would like to join the ranks of those who have been congratulating you, and who appreciate the agreement you have achieved over the question of Europe's future.
After the signing, I believe that our efforts as MEPs will be motivated by a vision of cooperation, and not a struggle between the old 15 and the new Member States.
The European Council Agreement in March regarding targets for a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, compared to 1990, was a historic one and we in the British Conservative Party particularly support this initiative very strongly.
Prime Minister Blair, who leaves 10 Downing Street today, maintains that the draft reform Treaty bears little resemblance to the constitutional text that preceded it.
Yet many of his fellow Heads of Government have contradicted him: the Irish Taoiseach and Finland's Europe Minister have said so, for instance - indeed the latter has said that there is nothing from the original institutional package that has been changed.
As Mr Blair promised the people of Britain a referendum in his last election manifesto, I really do believe it is incumbent upon his successor, Gordon Brown, to uphold that pledge.
The agreement passed on 23 June in Brussels is a complicated compromise, one that was reached after much effort in a Council that is marked more by the national tensions of some than by the universal sharing of the European spirit; a compromise reached at the expense of the ridiculous relinquishment of the EU symbols and of the appalling opt-out on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Having said that, there are two points that I should like to highlight as being important to our group and that concern the European Union's social dimension.
The shameless dissembling of the British Government, however, will not deceive the British people, because we know that when a Treaty looks like a constitution, when it talks like a constitution, and when it would walk us like a constitution into a stronger stranglehold of control from Brussels, then it is a constitution, howsoever you might deceptively describe it.
It was manufactured in Germany, invented by a Hungarian and consists of 27 pieces.
Just like the cube, it should bear the symbols, it should have a message and be a keystone and a foundation for our joint European building, but, at the same time, it is made up of 27 pieces.
So this is how I congratulate the German Presidency on putting these 27 pieces together again, because there are big and small pieces - not every piece is the same.
Thirdly, I am concerned that distrust between the Member States, and also some Member States' distrust of the EU and its institutions, has grown.
They all want to join, but they do not all want to join in.
I have no doubt that, in the next legislative period, we will return to everything that has been left behind this time and that we will pursue the European Union's further development from this Chamber of Europe's citizens. (ES) Mr President, we must undoubtedly congratulate Chancellor Merkel and, in particular, the President of the European Commission, who is now having his second big success, following the approval of the financial perspective, because we have avoided a certain risk of crisis.
Any opportunity to express the European institutions' solidarity with people whose freedom and lives are in danger every day is a good opportunity. (PL) Mr President, Chancellor, as the leader of the delegation of the Polish left in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I am pleased to accept the compromise in accepting the mandate and the opening of the inter-governmental conference achieved during the European Council summit.
I call upon the Polish Government to collaborate actively with the other Member States to prepare the final version of the treaty in such a way that it can be implemented before the European Parliamentary elections in 2009. (applause) (SV) I wish to thank and congratulate the German Presidency on what it has achieved in conjunction with the Commission.
The need for a new Treaty has emerged from the successes of European cooperation: enlargement, which has led not only to more Member States and a stronger EU but also to more different national wills to manage; the internal market, which has given Europe a stronger economic role in the world; and political integration and foreign policy, which has given the EU greater responsibility in the world.
I am Portuguese and, regrettably, I do not speak German, but I do know how to say... (DE) Thank you, Madam Chancellor Angela Merkel. (PT) The European Council has gone as far as it can, achieving a realistic compromise, in the words of Jacques Delors.
As my prime minister, José Sócrates, says, we have a mandate, but not a Treaty.
I can report from our government that we had a cabinet meeting today in which we took stock, and that all the members of the government were proud to have conducted this Presidency with enthusiasm and great commitment, and that the Social Democrat just as much as the Christian Democrat members of the government have contributed to that. (Applause) Secondly, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the Commission, to José Manuel Barroso and to all the Commissioners.
We have worked together intensively and well, we have had friendly, tough conversations, often extending into the night, but we reached agreement and I believe the Commission and Council have come out of this Presidency stronger.
That does not get us anywhere and I therefore extend my sincere thanks to the entire European Parliament and especially to those who always helped us along.
The results of this European Council which, in fact, were extremely positive, now mean that we have an even greater responsibility.
I would remind you that innovation should be a priority, not only in theory but also in practice, as indeed should all the other objectives of the renewed Lisbon Strategy.
The debate is closed.
The reform Treaty has got Europe back on track, and has averted a more serious and drawn-out crisis on the European scene.
in writing. - The package agreed by the 27 governments last weekend salvaged many of the practical institutional reforms that were contained in the constitutional treaty.
These will be seen by the European Parliament as major sacrifices, but they are necessary to secure ratification of the package by all 27 countries.
in writing. - The German Presidency was a disaster.
