on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the blackout in Europe affected 10 million people from Germany to Spain.
The power cut was a salutary reminder of how closely we are connected to each other via the electricity network and how vulnerable we are at the same time.
No viable internal market for electricity has been established.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Thank you for your communication, Commissioner.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, energy is produced heterogeneously among the Member States.
I am glad that the Commission's standard answer this time has not been that the harmonisation of markets solves everything, but that instead it is actually trying to find out what this was all about. (ES) Mr President, the power cut that was experienced on 4 November once again demonstrated the high level of interdependence between the electrical networks of the Member States.
It is not about taking sovereignty away from any Member State, but about acting together on all those things in which joint action benefits everyone. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the blackout of electricity networks on 4 November is a sign that should highlight the urgency with which we must provide common responses to the energy problem.
Commissioner, the guidelines presented by the Commission on 9 November to rationalise the cross-border transport of electricity in Europe, which are aimed at improving the management system, are welcome.
Together with the Member States, we must speed up this process, overcoming national protectionist self-interest that slows down liberalisation and competition on the market, so that episodes like that of 4 November will no longer happen, and, above all, so that Europe, as a single actor, can negotiate the delicate international geopolitical balances, securing for itself a protected, sustainable and unified energy supply. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we must first do is ensure that the grid is well divided up between large and smaller suppliers, between strong central units and regional ones that will enable us to build up a strong structure.
