Louise wrote to the President of the European Parliament, who redirected her letter to the Committee on Petitions.
Two out of three sufferers are women.
The report shows just how much obtaining a diagnosis and treatment vary within the European Union.
I believe that with better levels of cooperation and the full support of all the Union’s institutions, above all and most obviously Parliament, health ministers will be able to concentrate resources more effectively on support for people with this disease.
In connection with this I have tabled Amendment No 3 at Louise McVay’s request.
The report urges the next meeting of health ministers of the Member States to include a debate on these requests in its agenda, and I hope that Parliament will be informed about the decisions taken and proposals for action.
The matter arose when in Scotland they suspected there was a link between TBT and MS.
I hope that this, the first of my reports, will be read carefully by those at the level of responsibility for healthcare in the Member States.
Although it lies within the competence of the Member States to ensure that health care is provided and to organise it, this does not mean that we at the European level have no contribution to make to dealing with the problems that this report raises.
In order to make it easier to cooperate in this general area, the Commission has brought together health ministers, patients, staff from the health services and providers of services to them, as well as insurers, to join in a high-level process of reflection on patient mobility and developments in health provision in the European Union.
The Commission has mounted a wide information campaign in all the Member States to accompany this legislation and to inform employers and workers of these rights.
As far as the Commission is concerned, I have named a number of areas in which action at the European level can help to raise the issues we have mentioned.
It is truly an achievement of disabled people working and campaigning together, and one that we, in common with our colleagues in the European Multiple Sclerosis Platform, want to see spread throughout Europe.
The British Government in its devolution has devolved health to Scotland, because often the best remedies are found close to home.
Having said that things are often best done at local level, many things can also be done at a European, or even a wider level.
All of these are good and positive things.
But people who have MS clearly must be encouraged to play a full part in the community and such discrimination as exists within the community cannot be allowed to stand.
Maybe we should also consider that some people might talk about applying the precautionary principle to new treatments.
The precautionary principle is a separate subject and accordingly our Group cannot support Amendments 1 or 2.
The various tragic effects of the disease, which affect the lives of sufferers and their families, compel people with MS to engage in a lifelong struggle against a disease that is still incurable and whose progress is unpredictable.
The EU must play a strategic role in improving equal access to therapies and treatments, by calling on the Member States to coordinate their actions, including in research, and by facilitating access to the best practice in treatment and rehabilitation.
Sufferers from MS in the future Member States will benefit from this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as has already been stated, there are 400 000 multiple sclerosis sufferers across the whole of the European Union, but it has taken only one today to get this debate, a remarkable young women who has already been mentioned, Louise McVay, who is in the gallery at the moment.
There are differences within Member States and across the whole of the European Union.
This report contains proposals for resolving the situation of people suffering from multiple sclerosis in all the member countries, not only therapeutically, but also by proposing effective services to deal with the other needs suffered by these patients, as well as their integration into society, applying effective therapies and treatments which modify their illness.
It provides these patients with useful information and support, things which are very important to them.
It is an absolute priority to dedicate funds to research programmes aimed at finding a solution to this disease, in all the Member States.
The GUE/NGL Group supports the report in its entirety, as well as those amendments which we believe will provide solutions for alleviating this disease.
I would like once again to express my gratitude for this valuable report, which we hope will have effective results in the Member States, by means of the proposals which the Commission will undoubtedly make. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and most especially to the petitioner, Louise McVay, on her initiative and determination in getting this matter to the European Parliament.
In two horrible years he was confined to a wheelchair and finally the disease killed him.
Secondly, for some diseases there is no treatment – or it is only patchily available – and there is very limited research.
Further research is needed and we must be prepared to encourage and support that research as requested in this report.
There is also a need for a new directive on disability rights which would guarantee that people who suffer from conditions of this kind are not discriminated against in accessing jobs.
These are matters strictly speaking within the competence of the Member States but it is clear that as a Union and as a Parliament we have an obligation to seek to ensure that European citizens are treated properly.
These qualities have really been of value in the preparation of the report.
It is calculated that there are more than 400&#160;000 such citizens in the various countries of the European Union, as has already been mentioned.
While I support this report and its proposals on this concrete issue, however, I feel I must underline the need to situate these measures within the more global context of the fight to eliminate discrimination against people with disabilities.
I point especially to the need for a Community policy on disability and for giving top priority in the various Community policies to matters relating to discrimination against and the human rights of people with disabilities.
What is required is a proposal for a directive based on Article 13 of the Treaty to fight discrimination based on disability.
It would be good if this could happen in the short term, but we know that that will only be possible if the Member States make a great effort to adopt the necessary concrete, particularly financial measures, which have been affected by the irrational criteria of the Stability Pact and the resulting budget cuts, as has happened in Portugal.
Where common action in social matters is concerned, though, or common action in the cultural sphere, it is unfortunate that this Europe cannot demonstrate the rhythm and speed that it already possesses in other spheres, and for which we are grateful.
It would surely make sense for us to be as quick about things in the social and cultural spheres as we are elsewhere.
I hope that this debate will make us more aware of these matters too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my honourable friend mentioned that 400 000 people in the European Union suffer from multiple sclerosis.
However, in order for this sort of thing to be feasible, one of the preconditions is equal access for citizens to health services and equal provision of all efficient means.
MS is the most common form of disability affecting young adults in the EU, and two-thirds of sufferers are women.
This report proposes the very best kind of European cooperation.
It recognises that the EU has no competence to determine the health policies of Member States, still less to set their budgets or spending priorities for Member States' health services.
What the EU can and should do is to offer the exchange of best practice, to benchmark performance, to encourage uniformly high standards of care.
It has another vital role and that is in the area of medical research.
MS affects people in different ways: some days can be good, some days can be bad.
I became involved in working on the issue after meeting an active group of Scottish MS patients.
I have since sponsored the first European MS Awareness Seminar, held in the European Parliament, and set up Parliament's MS interest group.
Primarily the petition before us tries to raise awareness of access to not only medicines but also to the treatment of patients with MS.
It is quite fitting that, as we end the 2003 European Year for People with Disabilities, we reflect on what we can positively do to help people with MS.
The contributions made by the European Union to the various phases of the Summit preparatory process were, in every case, coordinated European positions which were developed by the Commission in collaboration with the Member States and the presidency, and were always presented in the negotiations by the Chairperson of the relevant Council on behalf of the EU-15 plus 10.
The Summit has enabled major progress to be achieved in several areas.
With regard to funding, the text accepted by all participants recognises the desire of some countries to establish a voluntary Digital Solidarity Fund and the desire of others to undertake an evaluation of existing funding mechanisms and carry out a study on the efficiency and feasibility of such a fund.
As far as the European Parliament was concerned, the STOA unit, Parliament's Scientific and Technological Options Assessment group – which had led the initiative to be represented there – had its own stand, in conjunction with the Commission.
The most important thing we must reflect on is that we do not just have a political declaration, we also have an action plan and we have two years in which to make some real demonstrable progress before this summit reconvenes in Tunis.
In that way they can develop their own solutions, and also draw on a much wider learning-community to help them develop the tools that they want – the standard applications, the other ideas – and they can exchange their work with each other.
My final point concerns our engagement as parliamentarians.
The International Telecommunications Union took the initiative for this first world summit on the information society held in Geneva, but the UN put its stamp on it, giving mainly developing countries the chance to claim equal opportunities for their citizens and to demand a fairer information society.
Of course, alongside everything discussed in Geneva, we expect other important initiatives to continue, such as the World Mass Media Observatory being promoted and the new European Security Agency due to start up at the beginning of 2004.
We believe we achieved something to combat spam when we adopted the directive on privacy protection in electronic communications, but we have got nowhere.
As is usual in the case of international conferences, the action plan and the final document contain many sound pledges concerning how this is to be developed and how we can help the developing countries.
An interminable number of international summits have now taken place at which we have given pledges concerning, for example, education for all and the fast track initiative within the World Bank to help children and, above all, girls to benefit from an education.
Regarding the fast track initiative within the World Bank, the developed countries have not even been able to comply with their modest pledge of slightly more than USD&#160;300 million.
Not only the proclamation of principles but also the action plan which were adopted are simple wish lists.
The objective of the possibility of Internet access for half the world's population by 2015 and the objective of their all having access to radio and television by then are not supported by any measures.
However, this problem will not be solved as long as the monopolies exploit the wealth of our planet for their own benefit, as long as they control information technology, as long as the imperialists massacre our fellow human beings.
It will be solved through the fight of the peoples for radical, revolutionary social change. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Schreyer, an initiative for a World Summit on the Information Society is a good initiative.
We know what it means to fight to defend intellectual property and, if we want to be consistent in the process of setting up the information society, then we must fight for freedom and the protection of intellectual property.
The current problem is that we have an action plan for the next two years on the basis of which tens of billions will be channelled to developing countries in order to develop the information society.
In developing countries, the companies that run the Internet and telecommunications are generally corrupt monopolies or oligopolies that use corruption to restrict individuals’ opportunities to access the Internet and the information society.
If, as we are doing, we are preparing to spend huge sums on these countries, let us make sure that these sums also go towards developing democracy and human rights.
I think that we must also make our contribution to the globalised process, and this contribution naturally means promoting free competition first and foremost.
Due to the pressure from imports from many countries of the world – I am thinking, for example, of China, which is currently showing an 8% growth rate, compared with just 1% growth in Europe – Europe has a massive demand here.
We must therefore do all we can to ensure that our companies establish a higher international export profile.
I think that for the future, it will be essential for us to participate in these international frameworks and ensure that the infrastructure we need for our small and medium enterprises in Europe is established.
We must therefore form partnerships between small enterprises around the world, offer them platforms and provide support to our 18 million – soon to be 22 million – SMEs, which employ two-thirds of Europe’s workers, so they can become global players and through them, we become successful in the global market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my fellow Members have already pointed out, and it has become apparent indirectly, how difficult the negotiations were in Geneva.
We must not forget that the Summit in Geneva nearly collapsed.
That is a sorry story even here in Europe.
I hope that next year, we can address this topic again, and that this House will adopt a resolution on the matter before Tunis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Commission Communication on the World Summit on the information society raises more questions than answers.
I would say simply, in summary, that this World Summit has served to promote much more intensive action within the European institutions and also, obviously, to stimulate debate before the next World Summit takes place and to assess the issues raised here. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely positive and gratifying that the Commission – as my fellow Members have already recognised in today’s debate – contributed to the World Summit on the Information Society and that it will continue to make a major contribution on this issue.
However, I think that a rather more lenient approach should be adopted to the issue of competition if there are objective criteria necessitating other solutions.
This is because technological change comes with something else: it comes with a huge transformation in the values and norms of our society and a huge transformation of our global economy.
If we are all to participate in this particular game, we must create an even playing field. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the development of the information society has been the greatest step forward the world has seen in the last 10 years.
Accordingly, greater attention must be paid to this work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament recently adopted the own initiative report which I drafted on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities on the position of women in the new information society.
I particularly welcome the fact that the proclamation made at the Geneva summit included the need to promote the incorporation of the gender equality dimension, in other words gender mainstreaming, in the information society.
What needed to be pointed out with greater emphasis in Geneva was the need to renew the codes of conduct governing the use and development of the information society.
In other words, we are talking about digital democracy.
The participation of women in it may be very important, because women are in a position to promote a different ethical dimension based on the different system of values which characterises them.
I hope that the United Nations world summit on the information society will contribute to the public debate on the sort of information society we want. &#160;&#160; I would like to make a point of order: this was a debate without a text, but in actual fact there is a text, a text which raises the issue of the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society, and presents the fact that it is taking place in Tunisia as an opportunity, not as a sign of the end of the information society.
The evaluation of the Geneva Summit and the ensuing implementation measures must now be geared towards the second phase of the Summit in Tunis in November 2005.
The basis for an implementation strategy, which I called for in my 2001 general report and which is long overdue, and which must focus on the social benefits for all sections of the population, has therefore finally been established.
The Declaration of Principles and Plan of Action must be evaluated by the Commission and Parliament in terms of their implementability.
The majority of Council Ministers at the meeting in November agreed to a ban.
The majority of Members of this House have agreed to a ban.
The majority of the citizens of the European Union want a ban.
We have concluded this second reading of the Draft Budget for 2004, which is a historically important year since it covers the enlargement of the European Union to 25 countries.
On behalf of the Commission, thank you very much! &#160;&#160; And so to the authors of this year's masterpiece! &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I too should like to thank everyone who has been involved in this year’s budgetary procedure.
This budget achieves value for money, and we can congratulate ourselves that we have achieved that juggling act and managed to finance enlargement without breaking the ceiling in heading 5.
In these negotiations, the Council was a little less willing to compromise than in the other negotiations.
We have the opportunity to conclude this report at first reading, that is, during the current legislative term.
I would like to reject the amendments on the internalisation of external costs because they have nothing to do with this report.
Amendments which relate to the protection of the London system, that is, Amendment Nos 22 and 44, but also 41 and 45, are completely redundant as the draft directive has nothing to do with urban systems or other island solutions, and by island, I do not necessarily mean the British isles.
If the PPE-DE Group does not accept this on principle, it should vote against it, but it should not use technical arguments as a pretext. &#160;&#160; We have had the debate on that.
So please reject Amendment No 5. (2) (3) –I should like to point out to the House that we are joined today by Louise McVay, the woman who first brought this matter to our attention.
It is an entirely appropriate vote at this time. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to put forward an oral amendment and change the wording in points 4, 9, 11, 13 and 15 from ‘multiple sclerosis’ to ‘multiple sclerosis and other similar diseases’.
Since 2000, new priorities have arisen out of the need for reconstruction after illegal and unjust wars in the Kosovo region, Serbia and Afghanistan.
These priorities have been financed to the detriment of the cooperation and development policy for other regions of the world, which is not acceptable.
The remainder will have to be found through funding cuts in the other areas, added to which there is an extra EUR 15 million for the CFSP, which is totally unacceptable.
In any case, funding generated by the invading forces in Iraq is unacceptable, so long as this illegal occupation is maintained by the Anglo-American forces. &#160;&#160; .– Any people that has suffered war and destruction is entitled to appeal for help with reconstruction to the relatively wealthy Europe.
I am therefore not advocating that this EUR 200 million should be paid now, but I am in favour of a larger amount at a later stage.
I therefore believe that this proposal helps to establish a responsible position for the Union on this important issue, providing it with the means that are deemed necessary to carry out its responsibilities. &#160;&#160; Since the budget that has been presented&#160;–&#160;as a reflection of current European policies, with which I do not agree&#160;–&#160;is a budget that perfectly illustrates the reasons for the crisis in which we find ourselves today in Europe, I therefore, quite naturally, voted against it.
We shall have a rise in inequalities within the EU and greater needs in the economic and social cohesion field; - conversely, it is going to be the lowest Community budget since 1987 in relative terms, that is, 0.98% of the Community GNI in 2004, less than EUR 100 thousand million, when it could be up to 1.06% of the Community GNI.
This budget not only underfinances enlargement to the detriment of economic and social cohesion, but it also gives a clear signal about the Community’s future financial framework.
Indeed, new countries are arriving in 2004 that are major honey producers and that are experiencing similar problems.
For years the proportion of the European budget going towards the agriculture budget has been steadily decreasing.
This is why my group and I will vote against this report. &#160;&#160; I have voted in favour of the European Parliament’s draft EU general budget for 2004.
Although it contains commitments totalling EUR&#160;200 million for 2003-2004 for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Iraq, the budget is limited overall, amounting in the end to approximately one per cent of the Member States’ total estimated GDP for 2004.
These phenomena are made worse by an ill thought-out enlargement that will penalise the current Member States without meeting the needs of the new Member States.
Furthermore, the year 2004 once again shows that a certain number of associations and organisations, in line with Commission’s opinion regarding the future of the European Union or, more specifically, regarding the prospects for a policy similar to the one for the environment, benefit year after year from direct subsidies or from specially thought-up programmes.
It is for all of these reasons that the 2004 budget does not meet the priorities of the EDD/CPNT Members, who did indeed vote against it. &#160;&#160; The title of the report is explicit: ‘report on the future budgetary requirements for external actions’.
Asking for more money, in a budgetary situation that is already difficult for our Member States, amounts to sacrificing other policies and areas of activity, which Parliament is carefully avoiding identifying.
The budget solution it proposes, involving redistribution within this heading and between it and other headings, such as the Structural Funds, is, however, not entirely acceptable, particularly since the priorities for external action are, in the end, almost exclusively the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the common European security and defence policy (CESDP), to the detriment of the cooperation and development policy, which is practically forgotten in this report.
We therefore voted against this report. &#160;&#160; .– During the vote on the Podestà report, the Members belonging to the VVD, the Dutch People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy, abstained.
The fact that those concerned felt it would be better to allow a free-for-all rather than conclude this compromise speaks volumes: a free-for-all, in practice, is better than this compromise.
From the beginning of this conflict, I have supported the Austrian representatives in this Parliament, on 4 September 2001 and 12 February 2003 to be precise, in the face of complete ignorance on the part of the majority.
Highly polluting lorries (Euro categories 0 and 1) will be banned from travelling in Austria, while the least polluting (Euro categories 3 and 4) will have free transit.
The proposal involves prolonging an ecopoints system that is currently in force and, as such, I voted for it.
I also concur with the agreement to extend the points system to the acceding countries from May 2004. &#160;&#160; In the previous readings, we voted in favour of this report.
The solutions indicated as regards the system of financial compensation in the event of overbooking/flight cancellation, reimbursement for delays, the system of carrier liability and passenger assistance in the event of flight cancellations are satisfactory and protect the various interests involved, particularly those of passengers.
Without prejudice to the strictest compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, as the situation requires, I believe we could move towards setting more ambitious targets and a more appropriate timetable by constructively promoting platforms for understanding with the Council, as is suggested here. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I wish to announce that we supported the resolution adopted on the IGC, and we take this as an appeal to the Irish presidency to get moving.
If there is, in the view of Parliament – and certainly in the view of my group – insufficient progress, we will look towards adopting a further resolution, one which will spell out possible initiatives to be taken by this Parliament in conjunction with national parliaments, and also consequences for our own parliamentary business, because we cannot continue with business-as-usual.
The IGC needs to come to a conclusion.
Nevertheless, it must be mentioned once again that the Convention proposed a supranational Constitution through internal agreement on the part of a hard core of federalists and that this cannot be called ‘effectiveness’ since the agreement epitomized neither the will of all of the Member States, nor, in all probability, that of the populations.
This Europe would be more socially and democratically advantageous.
They are duly expressed in this draft resolution and also in the draft resolution that my own Group presented on the Summit of Heads of State or Government within the IGC.
The outcome of the Brussels European Council was heavily influenced by the forthcoming elections and the intense pro-referendum pressure weighing on the draft Constitution.
We in this European Parliament now demand that the Irish Presidency should, in January 2004, present a concrete plan of action to complete the Constitution before May 2004.
This House does not want ‘business as usual’, even if we have to call on the Convention, the national parliaments and the European Parliament to help each other in taking action.
Other aspects, too, are still to be resolved, such as the process for transferring tolls collected in one Member State to a contract made in another Member State.
Perhaps we should also consider a gradual increase in this form of cooperation, which, if its implementation is subject to rigorous quality control, could become a preferred form of cooperation and development aid.
The broad objective stated in the European Union’s development cooperation policy is to combat poverty and ultimately eradicate it.
This serves as the legal base for budget item B7-6220 (21.02.06) – ‘Promoting equality of men and women in the framework of development cooperation’.
I am wholeheartedly in favour of adopting measures that could help achieve these aims of helping the poorest members of society and, because I believe that the rapporteur’s suggestions could contribute to achieving these objectives, I supported this report.
Firstly, we must bear in mind the appalling disparities between the realities faced in developing countries and those in our own.
This agreement has been mutually beneficial and clearly demonstrates the importance of international fisheries agreements, not only for the Community fleets, but also for local development.
Furthermore, the agreement has contributed to local development.
This extension would enable shipowners to carry out their activities without interruption and the Commission would have more time to negotiate and renew this agreement.
The European Parliament resolution, despite stammering out a few reservations about biometric elements, fully welcomes the Council decisions and even goes as far as to express regret that most Member States have failed to transpose the ‘European arrest warrant’ into national legislation.
These positions are duly expressed in this draft resolution, and in the draft resolution tabled by my group on the Summit of Heads of State or Government that took place under the IGC.
I also welcome the inclusion of paragraph 49 on Cuba and Oswaldo Payá, which was the result of my proposal in the original UEN text. &#160;&#160; I wish to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists’ Amendment No 5 was voted down (by 229 votes, with 209 in favour and 22 abstentions).
It is therefore extremely positive, and in the spirit of the healthy European idea, that a majority of the European Parliament is showing respect for these countries’ legislation and is not forcing their taxpayers to fund an illegal activity.
The Italian Presidency’s efforts in the Council regarding this point cannot therefore be criticised in the way that the PSE Group tried to criticise them.
It is therefore appalling to see the Commission ready to hand out authorisations, using subsidiarity as a pretext for passing on to the Member States the almost impossible task of establishing rules on coexistence, while refusing to allow the same States to declare certain areas GMO-free (Commission decision of 2&#160;September 2003 against Austria).
The fight for agricultural diversity for the effective and sustainable plurality of these industries is, therefore, an integral part of the fight for cultural diversity. &#160;&#160; We Moderates are opposed to a development whereby the European Parliament has views concerning the way in which serious diseases are to be treated in the Member States.
The principle of subsidiarity must be fully respected.
Patients’ rights and influence may also be strengthened if they have the option of changing doctor when the relationship is unsatisfactory or there is a lack of trust.
Another very interesting point addressed by the rapporteur is that of the psychological treatment of multiple sclerosis, a disease which, because it generally affects young people at what should be the most productive time of their lives, causes them to face an uncertain future, both from the social and the professional points of view.
Any increase in the social duties and responsibilities that the EU wishes to impose on the Member States must be accompanied by an increase in the Community resources allocated, which raises issues and problems that are far from easy to resolve and which are quite serious.
Commissioner Byrne once again informed a fellow Member that the Commission is sensitive to ‘greater interaction between health systems’.
I must also point out that the regions of Languedoc-Roussillon and Provence Alpes-Côte d’Azur are already receiving a large amount of EU aid under Objective 2 of the Structural Funds.
The distribution will be proposed to the Commission by the French State before 31 December next.
In like vein, the third report on economic and social cohesion, which will be adopted by the Commission early next year, will propose that risk prevention be made one of the objectives of the Structural Funds during the next programming period, after 2006.
I would like here to express again our deepest sympathy to all the victims, but also our gratitude to the civil defence services and volunteers, who have shown extraordinary dedication.
But we know that repairs cost a lot more than prevention.
The first lies in the fact that the Structural Funds are currently subject to the zoning rule and do not therefore place all victims on an equal footing.
We must all back Commissioner Barnier in his proposal to overhaul the Structural Funds.
I hope that the Commission as a whole will go along with Commissioner Barnier’s proposals and that our Parliament will be able to adopt the budget the Structural Funds need.
Europe created a Solidarity Fund for regions and states that have suffered natural disasters.
Unfortunately, I am much less optimistic than she is.
Much less optimistic because I know very well that you were making a wish, Mrs Grossetête.
We have now seen it three times in two years.
I am always surprised to see the authorities, not just in my country, that would be too easy, but in all the countries affected, running a little bit behind the disaster.
I do not have the impression that public policies are changing at the same rate.
In conclusion, I was saying that these problems have obviously changed in frequency and scale.
The provisional toll of this disaster is particularly high: 30 departments are affected, eight of them severely, in particular Bouches-du-Rhône, Vaucluse and Gard.
So far as the population is concerned, seven people have died and 32&#160;500 have been displaced or taken to safety.
But what can we do about it?
The French Government has released EUR 24 million to repair the dykes of the Rhône delta, which gave way at several points under the effect of the rising waters.
Nîmes, Vaison-la-Romaine, Aramon, Lezignanais, Narbonnais, Minervois, Rennes-les-Bains, Couiza, Estagel, Saint-Laurent-de-la-Salanque, and these days Arles, Marseille, Montpellier, eloquent names and images, unbearable tragedies, much damage and loss of life.
A Europe that believes in solidarity must stop letting its citizens die for lack of precautions and prevention.
There is even a solidarity principle in Article 2 of the treaty.
If, in the case we are concerned with, we have seen the coming of the floods but not of the euros, we must at least work for the future.
Seven people have died and around 100&#160;000 have been affected by the disaster.
Tens of thousands have been forced to shelter in gymnasiums or other makeshift accommodation.
Thousands of jobs have disappeared under the water.
Europe must show solidarity, in accordance with Article 2 of the regulation establishing the Solidarity Fund.
My impression was that they are very good people.
They are in the Georgian language and the Georgian alphabet, so I had to ask the guide what Winston Churchill had said about Stalin of which they are so proud.
She replied that Winston Churchill had said that Stalin would be remembered by history.
Nevertheless, without constructive cooperation from both Russia and the United States, it will be difficult to find a solution that is not merely abstract.
Calling on the Council and the Commission to organise, with the United Nations, the OSCE and the other actors, sending a mission to maintain peace in the region and to re-launch the peace process, is part of our desire for stability.
Every effort must, however, be made, including those which seem somewhat abstract, in the hope of creating a starting point for the new governing group that has inherited a situation that is difficult from all points of view. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Russian Federation plays a crucial role in the future of the Republic of Georgia.
The specific obstacles in the tense relationship between Moscow and Tbilisi are sufficiently known.
The second obstacle was highlighted once again at the end of November during the much-publicised consultation in Moscow between Russia and representatives of Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Ajaria.
This House expects the same political clarity from the Council and Commission in the relations between the European Union and Russia.
Meanwhile, the interim government in Georgia has the mammoth task of getting their country back on the right track constitutionally speaking.
After a long tradition of having been the first colony in tsarist Russia, and then having been the birthplace of Stalin, and finally Eduard&#160;Shevardnadze, there now comes democracy.
A great many unresolved problems remain, therefore, and I think that, if a solution is not found to these internal problems, the democracy that is now able to get off the ground in Georgia will start at a disadvantage.
It is very important to work towards this, therefore.
We also know, however, that many people’s perspective is determined primarily by their economic situation, and that the confidence in parliamentary democracy – and that confidence is not so great in Georgia as it is – melts away if there is no improvement in the economic situation.
To put it bluntly: without food or heating, democracy soon becomes a luxury.
At the same time, however, we know that the influence of Russia in Georgia is very bad in the long term from a structural point of view.
That assistance is military, but the assistance is often much more subtle: making it easier for the people from the regions to travel to Russia or to adopt Russian citizenship, for example.
In order to change the role of Russia, assistance is required from the European Union.
If Europe can play a role in this, it must be sure to do so.
I think that it will also be up to us to exert pressure on Russia to put an end to the negative role it is playing in Georgia.
With their peaceful and thankfully bloodless revolution, the Georgian people have gained a hearing and all our respect.
Properly conducted elections are a prerequisite for stability and development in Georgia.
The Georgian people have high expectations of their new President.
The national governments and the European Parliament, however, must accept that this kind of strategic partnership is only possible with states that honour their pledges.
I can only hope that Russia will in future support constructive negotiations in all parts of Georgia, as agreed in the OSCE accords in 1999, and will not further impede democratic development.
Russia plays a key role in Georgia and the entire Southern Caucasus.
However, our task now is to help Georgia overcome its crisis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the day after the Velvet Revolution that led to the resignation of President Shevardnadze, a new chapter is beginning in Georgia.
Georgia is a strategic gateway to Central Asia, but we must make the Georgian people aware that their future should not merely consist of a choice between two&#160;influences, Russia or the US.
It is also our duty to offer our help in at last finding a peaceful solution to the ongoing conflict in the regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
We must ensure that after many decades of foreign tutelage, the country has the opportunity at last to become what it once was in history, namely a genuinely independent and peaceful factor in a very important and very dangerous region.
Georgia is a country with a great European tradition.
The most immediate challenge facing Georgia comes in the form of the democratic presidential elections to be held on 4 January, to be followed later by parliamentary elections in accordance with the undertakings given to the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
The Commission will consider the means whereby substantial resources may be mobilised in support of such reforms.
Alongside the Council of Europe, we are also working to strengthen local democracy and the machinery for protecting human rights.
The joint debate is closed.
The European Union must draw certain red lines, which we must never cross.
The fact that a country such as the Philippines can backtrack on what was a victory by means of the moratorium, is of great concern to all us democrats in the world at the moment, and in particular the democrats in the European Union.
In the Philippines of today, the left wing may have a three-strong representation in parliament, but this is actually there semi-legally, whilst other parts of the same left wing are regarded as terrorist organisations.
Meanwhile, the succession of governments of the Philippines of recent times has never succeeded in solving the major problems of poverty, deprivation, oppression and violence.
On the other hand, however, we must make it quite clear that terrorism and violence can only be overcome through justice and the rule of law, and that the thousands of detainees and persons condemned to death in the Philippines have just as much of a right to life as anyone else.
This decision emphasises the crucial need for a UN moratorium on the death penalty, which would make it much more difficult to give in to pressure to begin carrying out executions again.
It would also put an end to the completely unacceptable executions of mentally handicapped people and of child abusers which take place in a good many countries and which will take place in the Philippines from January 2004.
In 2003, nine people were pardoned in the United States because they were innocent.
In its May 2001 communication on the EU’s role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries, the Commission reaffirmed the priority it gives to the funding of projects seeking to abolish capital punishment.
In faithfulness to our commitment, we contributed some EUR&#160;500&#160;000 to the campaign against the death penalty in the Philippines in 2002, as part of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
The Commission communication, ‘A new partnership with South-East Asia’, stipulates that all new bilateral accords concluded with countries in that region must include the ‘essential element’ clause on human rights.
In this context, this ‘essential element’ clause, which has capital punishment as one of its fundamental aspects, shall be given priority in any bilateral accord planned between the European Union and the Philippines. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
It is an example of a country riven by ethnic conflict, with part of it being occupied by foreign military forces, with its economy in a state of total collapse, with mafias in control and with the country’s inhabitants trying to leave the country by any means available.
The current state of affairs cannot be allowed to continue, and this resolution must be seen as a loud wake-up call to all the institutions to pay Moldova the greatest attention and to attempt to find a solution to the current conflict, which is undermining the stability of that country and that of Central and Eastern Europe as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, they were spectacular words that Commissioner Verheugen addressed to Moldova on 5&#160;December during his visit to Chisinau.
I sincerely hope that that will be primarily a practical support plan, which does not raise any false hopes in Chisinau.
Meanwhile, the Republic of Transnistria, which is not recognised by the international community, remains the political open wound in Moldova.
The politico-military role of the Russian Federation is evident here.
Many within the two conflicting population groups support an old-fashioned kind of authoritarian communist, in whom they see their best chance of survival despite their low incomes.
The way that Romania is now, few consider joining that much larger country a matter of urgency.
The European Union must be careful that it does not appoint itself guardian of that short-lived agreement between Stalin and Hitler for eternity.
It would therefore be prudent to take account of the possibility of the river Dniester becoming the frontier between Romania and Ukraine again in the future.
That is another eventuality that we should keep in mind. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do apologise, but I would ask you to ring very loudly, for most Members of the House are assuming that the vote will take place in an hour’s time at the earliest, and it will take some time for them to get here.
Thank you very much for your positive information. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if we look at the demands and expectations that we have set out in our resolution on Moldova, we see just how archaic the country still is in terms of democracy and civil society standards.
Among other things, we expect the government to respect democratic principles, to uphold human and minority rights, to allow civil society and a parliamentary opposition to exercise their constitutional rights, and to curb human trafficking in general and trafficking in women and girls in particular.
It is clear that economic and political stabilisation in Moldova can only be achieved if this conflict is resolved.
I would like to see the government and opposition working together on this issue.
I believe that we should stress yet again that multilateral solutions are important in this context, and we must call on Russia, Ukraine and Romania to refrain from taking unilateral steps. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, as a Christian Democrat and Swedish Member of the European Parliament, I am very pleased that the issue of Moldova has been addressed again.
We European and Swedish Christian Democrats wish to express our support for the opposition in Moldova, which is led by the Christian Democratic Party under Iurie Rosca.
