Situation in Nigeria (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Nigeria.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, honourable Members, the situation in Nigeria is of great significance for the stability of West Africa and, ultimately for that of the continent as a whole.
The elections took place within an improved legal framework, with substantial funds being made available, and all this led us to expect that the 2007 elections would pass off better than those held in 2003.
While we are still awaiting the final report from the EU's election observation mission, initial assessments give credence to the suspicion that the 2007 elections were an even more badly run affair than their predecessors in 2003.
What was even more serious was that, in addition to widespread irregularities, there was visible evidence of considerable electoral fraud.
Sadly, at least 200 deaths from election-related violence were also reported.
Disappointment at this missed opportunity is widespread in the international community, as Nigeria - one of the major powers in Africa - could have set an example of successful consolidation of the democratic process, which would have had a tremendous positive impact on the African continent.
I think the political dialogue has to restart, but future relations will have to include a deeper engagement at federal, state and Community level with a wider range of players in civil society and government.
Our readiness to engage Nigeria in a political dialogue and the commitment to promote the strengthening of governments and democracy in the country, particularly together with ECOWAS, is highlighted in the joint EU-ECOWAS communiqué issued on 24 April at the 11th EU-ECOWAS ministerial meeting.
While the main instrument for political dialogue will remain Articles 8 and 9 of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement, the programming of the development cooperation to be financed by the 10th European Development Fund will also provide a crucial avenue for dialogue and the opportunity to take into account lessons learnt from the elections and the outcome of the discussions with the new Government, civil society and other key players.
Madam President, both the Nigerians and the international community had great hopes for the Nigerian elections for a number of reasons.
Worse still, the elections were marred by violence resulting in the deaths of at least 200 people.
It appears that long-term education in citizenship is very important in the case of Nigeria.
The 64 million registered Nigerian voters have a right to election results that reflect their real will, and the European Union must strive to make this happen.
The European Election Observation Mission has had to conclude that the elections in Nigeria were not credible.
If you compare 14 April to 21 April: at the governor's elections on 14 April, there was still a great deal of hope, whereas the situation on the 21 April was simply demoralising.
Business as usual would affect not only the credibility of our European Election Observation Missions, but also - and to a far greater extent - our own values for which we stand when we act in the world and in a country such as this.
I have said before that it is not up to us to work this out in detail, but this is the essence and it would be good if in this respect, our resources could be put in place, preferably not with the federal government and with the state, but with all those players in society who can promote governance and democracy in this way.
In summary, following promising developments in countries such as Mali, Benin and Liberia, it is a crying shame that a regional superpower such as Nigeria has missed a great opportunity.
Madam President, as we all know, the development of Nigeria is crucially important for the African continent.
Finally, progress needs to be made, too, concerning the social and environmental responsibility of large companies - Shell, in particular, has a major presence in this country, but it is not the only one - and we should also act together on these major issues, and not just on the matter of organising elections.
I would like to ask the Commissioner, as I have already done on other occasions, what is happening with the democratic clause on rights, which was adopted by a very large majority within this Parliament, but never accepted by the Commission or the Council.
We must call for a start in talks, relations and meetings between the Nigerian Government and the representatives of local people, putting pressure not only on the government but also on the large European companies operating in that region without any respect for human rights or environmental rights.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, Demokratie als Farce was the headline on 30 April of the weekly Das Parlement - the President of the Council may have noticed how I am quite German-minded.
Do you, in light of these statements and this position, have a strategy, both tangible and intangible, for Nigeria, in fact, for the entire African continent?
On the other hand, those manning Nigerian polling stations do everything they can to stop these people from accessing the ballot box.
I hope that a way can be found around this through a normal amendment to get over the problem, but otherwise I am afraid that the ALDE Group will have to vote against both recital V and paragraph 15. (PL) Madam President, despite its rich natural resources, Nigeria is a corrupt and backward country, where the profits from these resources, in particular its oil wealth, do not go towards economic development or improving the life of society.
I would, however, like to use this heated debate and the dramatic situation in that African country as an occasion to remember here, in the European Parliament, the words of the greatest authority of the 20th and 21st century, Pope John Paul II, that a state's raison d'etre is the sovereignty of society and the people, and a condition of international peace and cooperation is respect for the right of a nation to have its existence, freedom and culture. - (PL) Madam President, over 200 people died during the recent elections in Nigeria.
At the same time, the country has vast resources of oil and other minerals and is the ninth largest country in the world in terms of population.
The elections of Saturday 21 April, which were marked by fraud, violence and deaths, will not have been free or fair.
On 28 and 29 May, a coalition of opposition parties, civil society and trade union organisations, including the Nigerian lawyers' union, will organise a two-day movement to protest against the staging of these elections.
I guess you must share INEC's responsibility by, for example, educating the approximately 500 000 INEC grassroots-level organisers so that more credible independent and democratic elections in Nigeria could take place next time. (PT) Regardless of the election result - and there is good reason to doubt the validity of that result - the most worrying aspect of the Nigerian election was the electoral process, on which the opinion of the other international observers left no room for doubt: it was disorganised and fraud took place.
There is nothing in the geography of Africa or in the genetic make-up of African people that stops them living in a democracy, but the international community needs to be determined and resolute in the process of the democratisation of African countries.
The EU must remain the biggest provider of international aid and must actively promote cooperation.
Not only the European Union's electoral observation commission but also - and this is a new thing - that officially appointed by the West African Economic Union, were merciless in denouncing the serious defects present in this election, which have been documented in a long list to which reference has already been made in this debate.
Based on my experiences, I have to say that the coordination of the work between numerous international observer delegations was an exemplary success.
They have satisfied neither international standards nor the local norms set by the government of Abuja.
We witnessed serious shortcomings in the system of voter lists and in keeping the public informed.
As we have already heard, some 200 citizens lost their lives in clashes linked to the voting.
The elections were overshadowed by terror, in which 50 people died, most of them in the Niger Delta.
Elections in a country of 110 million, of which 64 million are of voting age, should focus the attention of public opinion.
Another consideration, bearing in mind the prospect of the Africa Summit between the EU and the African Union being held in November, is the need for it to be made clear for which values the European Union stands, and to what it is committed, in its dealings with its African partners.
We must also, at the same time, make clear where we stand in our dialogue with China, for it is not acceptable that China should have only a very limited economic interest in the continent of Africa, whilst the European Union is left to do much else in such areas as responsible action by the state and the development of civil society.
There are also many countries in Africa that are enjoying economic growth and that are well governed.
As has been said by, I believe, a majority here, we have to engage with members of civil society in Nigeria who are willing to change the situation and the election process.
Such a dialogue has to be regular; it has to be structured; it has to be held at troika, or local or even higher level, and must be extended to national and regional organisations, as was done between the EU and ECOWAS, as was just mentioned, as well as to representatives of civil society.
Articles 8 and 9 of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement have also been mentioned.
It is not so easy to do, but it is very important and, therefore, it is important that Nigeria is being invited to the G8 Summit in order to give them these messages directly, because we have to tell Nigeria that we want our values and interests to be respected and it cannot only be a question of pure economic matters.
It is a mere 0.2% of the oil revenue and the total international aid to Nigeria.
Therefore, we should use this part in particular in order to work with civil society, as I think we would all agree.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
