Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I am delighted that the negotiations have produced such an excellent outcome.
The compromise found for Article 5 represents a step forward for consumers.
The general report will also cover Article 5 on consumer contracts, and particularly whether it is consistent with the rules of private international law applicable to consumer contracts.
I therefore hope that Parliament will today confirm the agreement negotiated with the Council so as to enable the Council to adopt Parliament's amendments at its meeting next week on 6 and 7 December 2007.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to vote on a second private international law instrument, the future regulation on the law applicable to contractual obligations, which is that rare thing in Community law: a document on a purely legal issue.
The problem with this version of Article 5 proposed by the Commission was that traders, particularly electronic traders, would have had to draw up terms and conditions tailor-made for each EU Member State.
The solution adopted in the end was to return to a simplified version of Article 5 of the Rome Convention.
The new Article 5 sets out the principle that the law of the consumer should apply, but allows the parties to choose the law applicable.
However, since Article 5 provides that the choice of law is subject to the mandatory rules of the consumer's country of residence, it offers a solution that is very much in consumers' favour.
The new Article 5 that we are proposing therefore provides a win-win solution in which the consumer is guaranteed maximum protection and SMEs will be free to offer their goods and services on the internet on the basis of contracts governed by their own law.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I believe that this is a good example of the proper functioning of the European institutions.
Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, may I begin by thanking the rapporteur for his contribution to the drafting of a regulation that is so important for the future of the European Union.
