&#160;&#160; Mr President, I have risen to make a personal statement in accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure.
I took up my duties as Ombudsman on 1 April 2003, following the retirement of the first Ombudsman, Mr Jacob Söderman.
This report therefore covers his three final months in office, as well as my first nine months of work.
I would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing Commission for all its constructive work for citizens during its term of office and in particular to thank Vice-President Loyola de Palacio for her collaboration and support.
The annual report for 2003 records the progress made by the institution of the European Ombudsman in handling complaints, promoting good administration and making itself better known to citizens, including, not least, the efforts to prepare the institution for enlargement and equip it to reach out to citizens in 25 Member States in the 21 Treaty languages.
As I already indicated when appearing before the Committee on Petitions in April this year, the upward trend in complaints is continuing.
I am convinced that these efforts have contributed to the increased use that is being made of our services and was heartened to see that Mr De Rossa's excellent report acknowledges these endeavours.
Five new own-initiative investigations were launched in 2003, including an inquiry concerning the integration of persons with disabilities, particularly as regards measures to ensure that they are not discriminated against in their relations with the Commission.
Most of these successes could not have been achieved without the active cooperation of other institutions in answering complaints rapidly, fully and correctly.
The 2003 report contains many examples of the institutions taking prompt action to settle cases brought to their attention and responding positively to the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations.
When I address Members and officials of the European Union institutions and bodies in person, as I did eight times in 2003, I am keen to underline the value of reacting promptly and constructively to complaints.
I would like to think that the Ombudsman can be seen as a valuable source of information for all institutions that wish to improve the quality of their administration.
The ultimate goal for all of us must be to provide the best possible service to the citizen.
Cooperation with these institutions and with their regional equivalents plays a vital role in improving the service to citizens through the exchange of information and experiences, the transfer of complaints between the European, national and regional levels and the provision of information to citizens about their rights under European law and about how to exercise and defend those rights.
The network of cooperation between the European Ombudsman and national and regional Ombudsmen throughout Europe, which comprises some 90 offices in 30 countries, was strengthened and intensified in 2003 with four high-level meetings in Athens, Valencia, Warsaw and Strasbourg.
When I took office in April 2003, I committed myself to reaching out to citizens in every Member State, to inform them about the work of the European Ombudsman.
I wish to thank the members of the Committee on Petitions for their support and constructive proposals, as set out in Mr De Rossa's report, and to put on record my appreciation of the work and positive contribution of that committee in the previous Parliament and of its then chairman, Mr Gemelli.
Firstly, we should not underestimate the importance of transparency in winning the trust of citizens.
The Constitution for Europe provides for the Council to meet in public when considering and voting on a draft legislative act, but surely citizens should not have to wait until the Constitution enters into force for this basic advance in openness.
I firmly believe that deliberating behind closed doors on issues that affect the daily lives of our citizens is something we cannot reasonably defend, especially now when all Member States have solemnly signed the text of the Constitution.
Secondly, on the Ombudsman's Statute, in order to maintain confidence in the institution, the Ombudsman must be able to investigate the complaints that citizens entrust to him as thoroughly and as rigorously as possible.
Thirdly and lastly, on enhanced cooperation with the Committee on Petitions, this is something that I am eager to develop.
Next year the European Ombudsman will be celebrating its first ten years of existence.
I would like to thank the Ombudsman, Mr&#160;Diamandouros, for his comments here today, particularly in relation to the report.
That is not necessarily a bad thing, because it clearly indicates that the citizens see the Ombudsman's office as a port of call for problems they have with European institutions.
The Ombudsman very correctly ensures that all of those complaints are redirected to those bodies which can provide some redress for citizens, whether that is the Petitions Committee, the national Ombudsman offices, or other national institutions.
The role of the Ombudsman's office clearly is to ensure that there is good administration by the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
The important role that the Petitions Committee plays is of course at the other side of that equation, where we seek to ensure that national governments and local authorities comply with European law in the interests of the citizen.
The report that we are dealing with today identifies a number of key reforms which in the view of the Petitions Committee need to be carried out if we are to ensure the democratic functioning of the European Union.
This need is also a result of the establishment of OLAF and indeed the fact that, quite shortly, we are hopefully going to ratify a constitution which contains a charter of citizens' rights and which will clearly enhance the role of the citizen in Europe.
The review must be undertaken by the European Parliament in cooperation with the Ombudsman's office and I hope that we can get review under way quite soon.
The Council, in my view, must now accept Parliament's amendments to the Ombudsman's statute on access to documents, as the Ombudsman pointed out.
This Parliament, through the Constitutional Affairs Committee and the Almeida Garrett report, pointed out that there was a need to amend that statute, because at the moment, Article 3(2) imposes restrictions in terms of the Ombudsman's investigative powers and, as it is currently worded, denies access to documents which can be refused on duly substantiated grounds of secrecy and accuracy.
This is not an acceptable situation in this day and age.
The Ombudsman, in whom Parliament and the other institutions have put their confidence, does not have access to documents and is denied access in this way.
Finally, I would also like to urge the Commission – pending the adoption of a legally binding code of good administration for all three institutions, which is provided for in the new constitution – to now buy into the voluntary common code which the Council and the Parliament are already applying.
This Parliament needs to review the manner in which the Council deals with Question Time in this House.
As you are aware, this debate comes at a critical time, when the new parliamentary term has just begun and the procedure for appointing the future European Ombudsman is underway.
During last year’s debate on the report on the activities of the European Ombudsman for the year 2002, the Commission took the opportunity to congratulate the first European Ombudsman, Mr&#160;Söderman, on the role he had played in establishing a European ombudsman system, and I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Diamandouros, his successor, for the excellent work he has carried out.
The contribution he has made has been an invaluable one, both for the Commission and for the European public as a whole.
Furthermore, I agree entirely with the Ombudsman’s comments to the effect that an increase in the number of complaints does not mean that the situation on the ground is lacking in any way; it simply means that citizens are gaining an ever greater awareness of their rights, and this can only be a good thing.
As far as amendments to the Statute of the European Ombudsman are concerned, it is now up to Parliament to take the initiative and to take a majority decision, with the approval of the Council, as the Commission’s role will merely be to give an opinion.
We will therefore continue to work on the basis of more thorough information to ascertain whether this Code needs amending, and, if so, how it should be amended.
Selection procedures must respect the rules and practices relating to transparency and openness which have been established over time, thanks in particular to the Ombudsman’s activities.
The Commission would like to point out that Regulation&#160;1049/2001 will in future also apply to EU agencies, which should make it easier to resolve various complaints.
A balance must be found between the principle of transparency and the confidentiality necessary for dialogue between the Commission and the Member States.
The Commission would also like to extend its sincere thanks, on its own behalf and on behalf of all citizens, to the Committee on Petitions for its excellent work.
The fact that 75% of complaints do not come within the scope of the European Ombudsman does not reflect badly on the institution, because these complaints were referred to other agencies.
As the elected representatives of European citizens, however, we cannot permit that even one citizen should not enjoy the provisions of Articles 41, 42 and 43 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which now forms part of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, as approved by the Council.
It may not recognise extrajudicial remedies, but if, in accordance with Article 1(2) of the new Constitution, decisions must be taken both as openly and closely to citizens as possible, the role of the European Ombudsman and of the administrative Commissioners is a guarantee of honest administration, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Finally, I would emphasise that it is to the credit of the European Ombudsman that he is conducting five own initiative investigations, the most exemplary being into the abolition of discrimination against the disabled on the part of European institutions.
We would also like to congratulate Mr Diamandouros on his outstanding speech in which he outlined his activity as European Ombudsman.
First of all, we call upon institutions to act as if the Constitutional Treaty were in force, especially with regard to the Council.
The strengthening of European democracy is not possible without openness and transparency and it is unfortunate that there is still no transparency and that the Council continues to act behind closed doors.
The institution of the Ombudsman will be ten years old next year, and therefore it would be timely to review the reform of the Ombudsman’s status.
Finally, I would like to welcome Mr Diamandouros’ commitment, with which he deepened mutual cooperation between the Committee on Petitions and his liaison network.
I am grateful for his help with our information campaign, which aims to familiarise citizens with the rights granted to them by the Constitutional Treaty and to make known to them their right to petition Parliament and lodge a complaint with the Ombudsman.
The protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of European citizens has thus made progress, in an improvement of relations between the Union and its citizens.
The institution of the Ombudsman is the most obvious expression of that sovereignty which is rooted in the people, and which acts in defence of individual rights against the institutions, from which citizens ask to be protected.
At heart, the European Ombudsman and the whole system of European local ombudsmen offer every citizen the opportunity to refer to them and, if necessary, to make use of their services, to make the European institutions more transparent and efficient, and to contribute to the Union’s enlargement to include other applicant countries, while fostering the development of a culture of protecting citizenship rights.
The European Ombudsman is, therefore, the port of call for any citizen who feels his or her rights have been violated: he may investigate and put forward solutions in cases of maladministration by the Community institutions and, if the conciliation solutions he suggests fail, he may make recommendations or refer the issue to the European Parliament.
For this reason the European Parliament, in thanking the Ombudsman, ought to undertake to highlight the importance of his office, as well as the Committee on Petitions itself, which is its operational arm for analysis, monitoring and making proposals, so as to foster the process of democratisation and social cohesion.
Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr De Rossa, on having produced such a sensible report and on his willingness to defend the amendments we have proposed to the Commission, sometimes by means of compromises.
The report on the European Ombudsman offers a very clear picture of the type of problems facing the citizens when dealing with European administration.
Amongst other things, the report notes that, despite the work done, in particular by the European Ombudsman and his team, the citizens are still experiencing problems obtaining information and documents from the institutions.
This report also shows us that, if we want to ensure that the European Union is more accepted by the citizens, and that the citizens comply with the laws laid down by the Union, it is essential not to give the impression that some people are above the law.
While we are all aware that the mandate of the European Ombudsman only applies, amongst other things, to the European institutions, his office plays an important role in terms of monitoring the correct application of Community legislation.
I would therefore urge the European Ombudsman, in cooperation with Parliament and its Committee on Petitions, as well as the European Commission, to establish the necessary criteria to clarify when an infringement procedure should be opened and the principles on which those measures will be based.
This amendment is based, once again, on the fact that the role of the European Ombudsman is to give the citizens the opportunity to express their views on issues that affect them.
I welcome both the European Ombudsman's report and that of the rapporteur, Mr De Rossa, and congratulate them on their work.
We support measures that make the work of the EU more transparent, accountable, efficient and effective.
The citizens of the European Union demand and deserve institutions that deal with their concerns and complaints in a professional and open manner, and which are prepared to admit their failures and bring about adequate redress.
However, as the rapporteur makes clear in his report, a number of bodies, including the European Commission, have not adhered to recommendations and regulations on access to public documents.
It is both regrettable and unacceptable that a number of institutions did not give full disclosure of documents to the Ombudsman's office.
The work of the EU Ombudsman brings into focus the wider debate on accountability – or, more accurately, the lack of accountability – within the European Union.
As welcome and as necessary as the work of the EU Ombudsman is, that office is not a panacea for the European Union's democratic deficit.
In a real democracy there is no need for an Ombudsman.
People speak for themselves, directly through their votes and through local participation.
I am even more thankful that given the endless, faceless bureaucracy that people have to deal with in our process democracy, we have, as this report points out, a well-intentioned Ombudsman.
Nowadays, it is often said that EU institutions are removed from the life of citizens.
When the public feels that it has no connection with what is happening in the European Union, the office of Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions are institutions to which all citizens can turn with their concerns and be sure that these concerns will be dealt with, or at least that they will receive a satisfactory explanation.
Citizens’ problems are of paramount importance, and the roles played by the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions are therefore also of great significance.
As well as cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions, cooperation also exists with this House in the case of extremely important matters, including those which Parliament examines on the initiative of the Ombudsman and those upon which the Committee on Petitions has given an opinion.
Today we are examining the report for the year 2003, upon which Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa has spoken on behalf of our committee.
Although he operates in a different context, the European Ombudsman must – or ought to – be a modern, effective and efficient point of contact between the Community institutions and Europeans, bringing us closer to making a reality of every citizen’s fundamental right to sound administration conducted by means of transparent and fair criteria, as enshrined in the Nice Charter.
Additionally, following these first months of work as a member of the Committee on Petitions, I must nevertheless say that, as demonstrated by the data in the report we are debating, excellently drafted by Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa, there is still considerable disinformation and confusion over the precise areas of competence of the European Ombudsman.
The hoped-for review of the Ombudsman’s statute ought to focus on this aspect to increase the real, concrete chances of finding solutions to the problems submitted to him.
We need a European Ombudsman who can become a genuine link between the Community, the and the institutions which govern it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to place on record my thanks and those of Parliament first and foremost to Roy Perry, my predecessor, who did so much to enhance the role of the Committee on Petitions, of which the Ombudsman's role is such an important feature.
I would also like to congratulate Mr De Rossa on a cogent report, and join him in thanking Mr Söderman for his services as Ombudsman and Mr Diamandouros for his time served to date.
I wish to make five quick points.
One, the Commission should reconsider its antipathy to a more open and effective control of Member States, particularly in regard to the implementation of Community law on public access to documents relating to the infringement procedure.
Three, my Group is wholly in support of an increase and improvement in the Ombudsman's investigative powers.
We must have a continuing education campaign throughout the European Union to improve the awareness of the Ombudsman and indeed the petitions procedure amongst our citizens.
I should also like to say to another honourable Member, who I believe is a member of UKIP – she must be sleeping! – that the role of an ombudsman reinvigorates and reinforces the democratic process.
The infringement process often leads to a judicial process.
In particular young people, women and socially excluded groups of citizens in general ascribe the disdain which they experience on a daily basis to the policy of the European Union.
If we interpret these statistics, apart from confirming that the institution was worthily represented both by Mr Söderman and by my compatriot, Mr Diamandouros, we find that European citizens are rewarding an institution which satisfies the obvious for them, by which I mean access to the institutions of the European Union.
We often speak of the democratic deficit, of the lack of transparency or political will in a way which automatically forces my generation to classify them using political .
It is, of course, a fact that the new Constitution safeguards the institution of the Ombudsman and promotes, perhaps not perfectly, but certainly better than today, transparency and democratic participation in the Union.
Perhaps we shall start to regain the confidence of the citizens and convince them to participate more in the common ventures of Europe.
I also note, however, that there was a 40% increase in the number of complaints over the year in question.
I would like to say that, in general, a more client-focused approach by all of the institutions would make you redundant, though I do not think that will happen in the near future.
At national level, at least in Ireland, the Office of the Ombudsman has been a very positive force for change.
It has changed the system and the culture, and I believe that your office should be a similar force for change, not just a problem-solving office for the individual but one that can change the system for all citizens and for the better.
I wish you well in your work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 2003 the European Ombudsman dealt with 363 inquiries.
Firstly, on the face of it this seems a very small number of inquiries compared with the complaints received and begs the question, even if the EU citizen knows that the European Ombudsman exists, does he or she know what he know what he actually does?
I wish to thank all the Members of the House who honoured me with their remarks for the constructive nature of those remarks.
I wish to thank Mrs Reding for her comments and to point out that, as 13 years ago she was chairman of the Committee on Petitions, she has the experience needed to appreciate the kind of work done by that committee and by the Office of the Ombudsman.
I wish to thank Mr Libicki, chairman of the Committee on Petitions, for his comments, and to assure him that I look forward to working closely with him in promoting the joint and common goals of the Ombudsman in that committee.
I will not answer all the comments individually, but would like to make some general points.
I will keep on top of this situation, and remain very conscious of the need for me to act as a control mechanism in respect of the institutions, including the Commission.
Lastly, I want to go on record again in thanking Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa for his report, thanking the Committee on Petitions and thanking this House for its support.
I remain committed to serving the citizens with your cooperation and support. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
On behalf of the European Parliament, I wish them a fruitful and productive meeting.
I would only ask that our agreed approach takes account of our respective roles and obligations and the European Union Treaty.
With regard to points 5 (a), (b) and (c), as I indicated yesterday, I have sought and received a commitment from my team that the Commissioners will resign if I ask them to do so.
I will examine very seriously any criticism expressed by this Parliament regarding the performance of Commissioners.
With regard to the replacement of Commissioners, we must make a distinction between the current situation, which foresees no role for either the Commission President or Parliament, and the future situation under the Constitution.
In this transitional phase, I can therefore agree that new Commission members should not appear officially before this Parliament until they have met with the relevant parliamentary committee.
In the event of a reshuffle of my team, I accept a similar obligation that Commissioners whose portfolios change should not appear officially before this Parliament until they have met with the relevant parliamentary committee.
With regard to points 2 and 5 (d), your resolution suggests that we have not yet taken the necessary steps to avoid potential conflicts of interest.
This anticipates this important new area of cooperation, also provided for in the Constitution.
Now points 5 (f) and 5 (g).
My team will therefore give priority to appearing before this Parliament.
The announcement of Commission decisions and proposals to Parliament reflects the current arrangements under the framework agreement, which I am, of course, willing to respect.
Nevertheless, I believe that this has not always been implemented satisfactorily, either for the Parliament or for the Commission, particularly as regards communicating effectively to the wider public what the Union does.
As I stated last July, it is a fundamental requirement for this Parliament to provide democratic oversight.
I am willing to inform the European Parliament of any changes to the provisions of the code on conflicts of interests or ethical behaviour and will take due account of any views it expresses on such changes.
Vice-President Wallström and I will work with you constructively, addressing the points I have just made and any others that our two institutions might think appropriate, with the aim of reinforcing the roles of the European Parliament and the Commission in their work for Europe.
You have before you a competent and efficient Commission, and I can assure you that as its leader I will devote all my energies to achieving these objectives and to ensuring that the men and women of Europe notice what has changed.
The Commission and Parliament need to regard each other, in principle, as allies, and that not only because of the attitude of some governments.
Necessary though it is that this House should monitor the Commission, we would have you know, Mr President of the Commission, that we are, in principle, always shoulder to shoulder with it, for it is an important European Union institution.
When Parliament summons you, your presence before it takes precedence over all other commitments you may have made, and that is important, for it is to Parliament that you are responsible.
We have now decided that the House will set out its principles in a resolution in December.
It is then that you can, and must, not only take note of Parliament’s positions, but also bring them and the Commission’s strategic programme into line.
It is our contention that, where Europe has the competence to act, it must do so, with strength and reason, but it must not claim every task and role for itself; there are still the municipalities, the districts, the regions, and the nation states.
Willy Brandt said that the European Parliament was not given rights; it had to fight for them.
This House has indeed fought for rights for itself over the past three weeks, and we can all take pride in the fact that it succeeded, for we have put a stop to a trend – the trend towards excessive governmental power in the European Union.
This struggle against governments, and also against executives with which one does not agree, is what parliaments are elected for; it is the reason why they exist, and it is in order to engage in this struggle that delegates are elected to parliaments.
If our struggle is attended by the same success as we have had, we gain – as we have all noticed – popular confidence in our institution.
Their approval of this Parliament of ours has never been as high as it is now, and that is something we should make use of.
Both institutions – Parliament and the Commission – have come out of this process stronger, and you, Mr President, with the Commission over which you now preside, have every opportunity to bring about change.
If I may remind you of the hearings and of what came out of them – for it was from these that the conflict arose – these core messages can be summed up in one sentence, which is that a broad majority in this House stood up in defence of the civil fundamental values of the European Union.
The freedom of opinion of each and every individual is indeed one of these, but another is the right of Parliament to decide who shall join the executive and who shall not.
What we learn from the experience of history is that more democracy always brings with it more social justice.
For that reason, the democratic progress we have achieved is, for us, the beginning of a battle that we will be waging for five years.
A number of Members in our group are not yet convinced and will not be giving you a vote of confidence today.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament approves your proposal.
I wish you success in working for social cohesion and social justice in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today a majority of Liberals and Democrats will vote for Mr Barrosso's Commission.
Indeed, I have said publicly that you must have the freedom to make your own decisions on the distribution of portfolios for your new team.
You blamed the House for the lack of freedom to manoeuvre when, in fact, we have worked with you to build this compromise and when not one of us in this Parliament faces the European government that we might have chosen for ourselves.
Parliamentary oversight without some possibility of sanction is paper tiger democracy and we want something better.
But good European government means accountable European government as you have said yourself.
That is something that you and your Commissioners will have to earn: every day, every month, brick by brick, in this stronger, closer European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, times are changing.
We showed that the majority of the Members of this House did not agree with the chairmen of Parliament’s largest groups, including the Chairman of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Chairman of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, and even, at one point, the Chairman of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
To all of you who consider yourselves politicians today – and I am addressing all those who are still wondering whether they should vote for, vote against or abstain – I should like to say that I am aware that the rest of you are followers, not leaders, and indeed the majority of the PPE-DE Group would have voted in favour of the Commission last time.
A vote in favour of investiture is a vote of confidence.
In 2000 he received an eight-month suspended jail sentence for his involvement in an embezzlement case and was banned from holding public office for two years.
From Estonia we have Mr Kallas, who for 20 years was a Soviet Party apparatchik until his newly acquired taste for capitalism got him into trouble.
The answer simply must be 'No'!
Even if they were competent and even if this were a high-quality Commission – sorry, Mr Barroso, but I do not think it is – we would still vote 'No' on the political principle that the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties; the Commission is the motor for integration; the Commission initiates the legislation that is damaging our businesses across Europe so badly; the Commission is the embodiment of all that is worst in this European Union; the Commission is the government of Europe and is not directly accountable to anybody.
Thank you, Mr President.
As was saying, it is important that we reflect on what has taken place.
However, the Council and the Commission have responded to the concerns which Parliament raised and brought forward a new proposal and a new team, which we now have the responsibility to endorse.
In no way would I disallow any Member' right to express a negative opinion on individual members of the Commission.
They will not judge us on whether Parliament is stronger than the Council or equal to the Council or the Commission.
We are elected to use that voice to speak on behalf of the people who put us here to be their representatives.
Who will give us the right to speak on behalf of all of those people if we use our time and energy trying to get one over on a neo-Liberal, neo-Conservative, Communist – or whatever – approach?
Mr Barroso, you and your team have shown a willingness to listen to the concerns of this Parliament.
Occasionally you will have to stand up and not give in to every demand from governments or this Parliament.
The moral is that to be a European Commissioner, one must be Euro-compatible, that is to say politically, mentally and even religiously correct, as well as being an aficionado of tolerance, of the principle of non-discrimination and, above all, of human rights, the latter-day bible of right-thinking people.
Although Mr Barrot belongs to another institution, I have known him for many years, and so I take this opportunity to say, on behalf of our group, that Mr Barrot is an extraordinary person; he is honourable, he is credible, and we have complete confidence in him.
Mr President, I ask that it be investigated whether the insulting utterances that Mr Farage has come out with in this debate, could result in prosecution under criminal law.
I most firmly repudiate these utterances and wish to express our wholehearted confidence in Mr&#160;Barrot. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Poettering has just said is true of my own group as well.
We have been forthrightly critical of some candidates, but the critical onslaught that is customary in political debates must never result in people’s integrity being damaged, or in their being condemned in advance.
I absolutely endorse what the honourable Member said, and would say that what has been said about the English Member applies likewise to Mr Le Pen. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will be aware that we have been highly vocal in our criticism of certain Commissioners, but I should like to tell Mr&#160;Barroso in person that we too find the way in which he has been attacked unacceptable.
Problems relating to the funding of political parties in France have affected all parties … … have affected all parties.
I must say that I am surprised and disappointed by the behaviour of his Group in this Chamber over a number of weeks.
Last time, one of his members, Mr Kilroy-Silk, bellowed like a bull through the microphone.
I should therefore like to say that, although Mr&#160;Barroso may be my political adversary, I respect him as a person, and would like to say, on behalf of our group, that we do not in any way agree with the slander to which he has been subjected. &#160;&#160; Mr Farage, you will speak when I give you the floor.
If they do appear, you will have to be prepared to accept any legal consequences which may result from them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not sure whether I take your comments as being a neutral intervention or perhaps more of a veiled threat.
I made the comments about Mr Barrot having researched the case very carefully.
I will make it perfectly clear: if it is proved that what I have said is wrong, if it is proved that my research is flawed, then of course, in those circumstances, I would withdraw the remarks and apologise wholeheartedly. &#160;&#160; Mr Barroso, Commissioners, the European Parliament has just expressed its confidence in you and I congratulate you.
Whatever our differences of opinion, I believe we can take pleasure from the fact that our debate has reached the citizens of Europe.
I wish to say to you that I appreciate this is a large, indeed an enormous, responsibility, and that we will strive, we will make every effort, to serve Europe, to serve the Institutions of the European Union and to serve all of our citizens.
I look forward to working with this new Commission.
We therefore have difficulty in assenting to a Commission without Mr&#160;Buttiglione.
I believe the nomination of Commissioners should be a sovereign decision by the governments of the Member States, and that the European Parliament should not dispute their choices.
We recognise that Mr Barroso has the qualities needed to fulfil his duties and that he broadly shares our views on the Lisbon Strategy and on transatlantic relations and we also recognise that his Commission, on balance, shares his approach.
However, for us there are significant problems with, in particular, the debate over the withdrawal of Mr&#160;Buttiglione as candidate Commissioner whilst at the same time retaining at least one other Commissioner-designate who was the subject of serious criticism at his previous committee hearing.
Given these conflicting aspects of the Commission proposed by Mr Barroso, we have, with regret, decided that we have no alternative but to abstain. &#160;&#160; I voted against the appointment of Mr&#160;Barroso as President of the Commission last July, as in my opinion he was not the candidate European citizens were entitled to expect.
It is crucial, however, that a new Commission finally be able to get down to work.
I will be looking very carefully to see if this agenda is one that gives an important place to the social issues that citizens expect to see tackled there.
The Commission that has been approved is, however, a poor solution, which is a great pity in the current political situation.
The fact that Mrs Kroes has been retained in the post of Commissioner responsible for competition is tantamount to a time bomb that may do serious damage to the Commission in the future.
To reject the Commission at this time would therefore only lead to a worsening situation and to an unwanted political crisis.
The President of the Commission attempted to satisfy the demands made by Parliament, in general, and by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, in particular, by making significant changes. 2.
Despite the fact that, to my mind, this is not the Commission that Europe needs and the fact that its bias is strongly neoliberal, the current proposal is substantially better than the one before. 3.
While the reality is that not all European governments are left-wing, the Commission is the representative face of those governments in Europe.
I am voting in favour of this Commission, not because I agree with everything it stands for, but because it is the embodiment of the broad church of European governments.
The line-up of the new Commission, upon whose investiture Parliament was asked to vote today, admittedly takes these problems into account.
Yet it does not provide any kind of response to the political issues and to some of the ethical issues which aroused the opposition of a majority of Members of this House on 27&#160;October.
Although the most inappropriate of the original Commissioners-designate has, thanks to Parliament’s intervention, been prevented from taking up his post in the college of Commissioners, I feel that this is a Commission with an excessively neoliberal bias, under a leadership that could do a good job provided it does not backslide on the democratic principles and objectives of European integration.
I also have reservations about the portfolio of Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs going to an ex-Minister under Mr Berlusconi, jointly responsible for the delay in adopting the arrest warrant (…) &#160;&#160; The Swedish party, the June List, intended voting against Mr&#160;Barroso’s first proposal for two reasons.
In general, I doubt if the recent events, which have however been described as a great victory for the European Parliament, have really served the cause of a more democratic Europe and smoothed the way for inter-institutional dialogue.
It is now clear that the ‘individual nomination’ procedure for Commissioners – a procedure that does not appear at all in the treaties but that has, in the event, just been applied by Parliament – has quickly got out of hand by being employed in an iniquitous and arbitrary fashion.
I hope that future Commissioners nominated by the Member States will, without exception, be qualified for the job, with it then being left to the President of the Commission to make his own choice from among a number of talented actors. &#160;&#160; In addition to the universal figures of Vasco da Gama and Magellan, Portugal’s notable politicians included Pombal, the Lusitanian Richelieu.
At this time of enlargement and of public debate on the new Constitutional Treaty – a time that is so loaded with desires and opportunities – one would expect that the decisions made by all of the political groups in this House might have been guided by a sense of responsibility.
I am appalled by the disgraceful way in which Members of this House and certain parliamentary services were predisposed towards an orchestrated smear campaign against Mr Buttiglione, and were even found to be directly promoting that campaign.
Today, coming from Portugal as I do, I believe that no compatriot of mine with the slightest awareness of the reality of Europe could, as a Portuguese Member of this House, vote against a Commission that for the first time has a Portuguese President.
The fact that that amendment was not adopted does not exempt Parliament, or the other European institutions, from complying strictly with the principle, in accordance with both the current Treaties and the future Constitutional Treaty.
What those signatories welcome, applaud, hope for and request does not, however, in any way change, let alone improve upon, the reasons – political reasons – why we voted against Mr&#160;Durão Barroso’s appointment as President of the Commission.
The Commission in its current form is simply the team that will press ahead with political choices that go against what we stand for and what we fight for.
The Commissioners-designate who are scandalous examples of the sordid relationship between economic and financial power and the political institutions have been retained, and indeed their position has been strengthened.
The replacement for the Commissioner who so offended some Members’ human rights sensitivities in the hearings trotted out the same answers prepared by the services for the supposed Commissioner he was replacing because of statements that he had made during the hearings.
This decision was taken in the wake of our opposition to a number of Commissioners following their hearings.
Mrs&#160;Kroes retains the same portfolio, and, sooner or later, conflicts of interest will arise.
The changes proposed by Mr&#160;Barroso are cosmetic.
In order to continue to see itself as a project for peace, Europe must grow economically, must be capable of creating more jobs, must foster sustainable development, must show signs within itself of greater social and territorial cohesion and must play a more prominent role on the international stage and in the fight against terrorism.
I therefore voted in favour of the Commission led by Mr&#160;Durão Barroso.
The fact that the leader of the European Commission happens to be a compatriot of mine makes me proud to vote this way. &#160;&#160; .– We voted against the candidature of Mr Barroso and the new Commission because they stand for the continuation and hardening of the anti-grass roots, autocratic, warmongering policy of the ΕU.
The withdrawal of the proposal and the change in certain Commissioners were to do with internal oppositions and the effort to find people who will implement the same policy more efficiently, in order to give a 'democratic' pretext for a new agreement between social democrat and conservative parties.
That is why the debate focused on the people rather than the policy of the new Commission, in order to disorientate the people.
The Socialist Group, the Greens, the liberals and anyone else celebrating the change in certain Commissioners as a victory for democracy, are deceiving people about the policy and character of the ΕU.
In my opinion, coming to the aid of needy elderly people throughout Europe is one of the goals which we would be very happy to see achieved over these next five years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the interesting thing about the last six weeks has been that we have proved that politics is not a zero-sum game, and that more than one institution can win when we have a dispute.
The Commission has emerged from this process better equipped and more able to perform its tasks over the next five years.
The issue of Turkey is a classic example of this.
The new Commission intends to force through Turkey’s accession at all costs, against the will of the overwhelming majority of Europeans.
That is another reason why today’s Commission is a Commission that does not deserve any support or confidence whatsoever. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a large minority of democrats in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe abstained, and it is in witness of the fact that I am offering you an explanation of vote.
As if that were not enough, no lessons were learned, either by certain Member States or by the President of the Commission, who gave way by agreeing to have at least one Commissioner – in fact, there are probably two – remain subject to suspicion because of a permanent risk of a conflict of interests.
We object to the fact that the report refers both to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.We do not support these parts of the report in spite of the fact that we are voting for the report. &#160;&#160; .
I applaud the report's call for even greater transparency within the European Institutions.
I feel that the Ombudsman’s role in fostering accountability and democratic responsibility in the EU’s decision-making processes and in the administration of the EU represents a major contribution towards a Union in which decision-making is as genuinely close to the citizens as possible.
The Ombudsman’s role has had the positive effect of informing the citizens of their rights and obligations concerning the European Institutions.
I should like to highlight the previous Ombudsman’s efforts towards public access to Community documents, towards total transparency in recruitment competitions, and in advocating that all Community acts directly concerning the general public have a proper basis.
As regards the current Ombudsman, there are also positive signs, not least the appreciable increase in the number of complaints duly dealt with (30% in 2004).
This only serves to demonstrate the need to support the various solutions which have been enshrined at EU level and which, in practice, fall short of what is required both in terms of the reasons why they were put forward and in terms of their own intrinsic value. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I raise this point while keeping in mind the difficulty that the President was facing.
If, however, it is indeed a question of reacting firmly to the violence being committed in Côte&#160;d'Ivoire, we also have to take much longer-term action, and not only when the situation becomes untenable.
We therefore want to see the European Union steer a totally different course regarding Côte&#160;d'Ivoire and all the African countries so that all these aspects might be reconciled and so that we are not content merely to react – react though we must – to extremely difficult crises. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the dramatic events in Côte d'Ivoire have once again alerted us to the fragility of the situation in that country, which in the past was recognised as a great economic success in an otherwise very volatile region of Africa.
The situation is very worrying because there has been clear incitement to violence.
I welcome the fact that this incitement to violence through broadcasts has been dealt with in the UN resolution, but would also like to see the United Nations being granted, as part of its mandate, a peacekeeper's right to deal with such situations.
The problems in Côte d'Ivoire will never be resolved until property rights and other demands are addressed.
Finally, with reference to the UN resolution, I agree that the arms embargo is of great importance.
Chapter VII of the UN Charter authorises the use of force in the event of the arms embargo not being respected.
I should therefore like to ask the Commission how it will ensure the EU supports and works with the UN in its efforts in Côte d'Ivoire and takes stronger action, over and above Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, in respect of the situation there. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, this item is called ‘Debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law’, and I believe that these principles should be generally observed, regardless of who is and who is not regarded to be a citizen of a certain state.
Despite the fact that this issue involves a conflict between two imperialist powers, we must therefore do everything in our power to support the deployment of international peace troops, with a majority of these troops being African, as only in this way will we be able to put the basic conditions in place for the crisis to be resolved.
I do not believe it is appropriate to paralyse the regime’s air force merely because a number of opposition armed groups exist in the country, and should like to note that such measures offer no kind of solution to the situation.
The only thing which is certain is that they bring nothing but suffering to the vast majority of citizens, as well as a deterioration of health and social services.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the crisis in Côte d’Ivoire has a whole host of varying causes, all of which require thorough analysis.
As in the majority of West African countries, of course, there is tension between the Christian and animistic South and the predominantly Muslim North, as well as problems relating to borders, which were drawn by the colonial powers in a highly arbitrary manner and which generally separate ethnic groups, and sometimes even entire nations, living on either side of them.
Yet there is one thing of which we must be aware; none of these factors can justify the use of violence or human rights violations.
It is all well and good for this House to hold speeches and adopt resolutions, but it is the French soldiers, and sometimes French civilians, in Côte d’Ivoire who have to put their heads on the line for a peaceful solution.
Item 6 of the resolution is not, as I understand it, a criticism of France, but of the other countries in Europe and the rest of the world which have left France to deal with this matter alone, very conveniently beating a retreat and shirking their responsibilities.
I should therefore like to counter Mr&#160;Kohlíček’s comments by saying that the former imperial and colonial powers do, of course, have responsibilities, but it must also be said that without the French presence in Africa in the 1970s and 1980s, the Soviet Union would have occupied central positions on the continent, and so France prevented these positions from falling under the control of the Communists and their expansionist ideology.
As Mrs Kinnock said, Côte d'Ivoire was known as an economically successful country, but clearly there is no long-term economic prosperity without political stability and respect for human rights.
In March, the government security forces and parallel militias indiscriminately killed innocent civilians in Abidjan and committed massive human rights violations.
As Mrs Aubert and others have stressed, several mass graves containing more than 100 bodies were discovered in June in the northern part of the country now controlled by the ex-rebels of the new forces.
On 1 November the main opposition newspapers were looted and vandalised by the young patriots.
International radio transmissions have been sabotaged.
The international community must react to the situation and to the violation of human rights.
The Commission therefore welcomes the UN sanctions, the arms embargo, the travel ban and the freezing of assets, not only for those who block the full implementation of the Marcoussis and Accra III Agreements, but also for anyone else found to be responsible for serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law.
The Commission shares the concerns expressed by President Mbeki about Côte d'Ivoire's future.
I am therefore delighted that this House has responded to the urgent need for joint measures, and made known its opposition to the imminent execution of the Buddhist lama Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, who was not given a fair trial, and whose execution is scheduled for early December, without there being any proof of his guilt.
China must in any case put an end to its use of the death sentence in general – that is one of our key demands – and must also finally respect the religious freedom of the Tibetan people, a people which has used no violence in defending its rights and calling for these rights to be respected, thereby earning our deepest respect.
There are international precedents for such a solution, and it is our duty to make repeated reference to these precedents in order to secure the peaceful coexistence of Tibet and China.
On 3 December 2002, Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was condemned to death after being convicted of trumped-up and politically-motivated charges in a court in Tibetan China.
However, Tenzin Delek has always maintained his innocence.
I have always said that we should not so much as raise a hand against another.' Indeed, his moderate and peaceful way of dealing with the problems that the Tibetans face and with the repression in Tibet, his work as an active lama to foster Tibetan Buddhism, and his practical work in Tibetan communities have earned him many supporters.
The paradoxical silence that followed the death sentence on Tenzin Delek, who is such a popular figure, is attributed by Human Rights Watch to a campaign of intimidation and terror executed by the Chinese authorities.
Human Rights Watch also reports that he was denied the most basic of rights under international law: the right to a fair hearing.
The systematic repression of all things Tibetan just about sums up Chinese policy on the matter.
The European Parliament must send a clear message to China that this policy is unacceptable and it must do all it can to ensure the protection of human rights and the cultural, political, environmental and religious identity of the Tibetan people.
I would therefore ask all Members to support this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the past, large and growing populations have often sought out sparsely populated and remote areas as living space.
Tibet, which, like its neighbours East Turkestan or Xinjiang, has, against the will of its people, for a long time been recognised internationally as part of China’s territory, is no exception.
Chinese people from the densely populated central and eastern areas of the country have been colonising that country, and many newcomers have taken on the role of civil servant, policeman or soldier.
Even so, I find the present situation wholly unacceptable and it seems to me sensible that China should negotiate solutions with the Tibetans in exile in India, led by the Dalai Lama.
Indeed, this is a country that refuses to release colonised peoples, puts economic growth above everything else and moreover, violates human rights.
If Europe makes it clear that we do not consider this Chinese policy acceptable as a matter of course, then that would be a contribution to the much-needed change. &#160;&#160; Mr President, nearly two years ago, this House did everything in its power to prevent the execution of two Tibetans, Tenzin Delek Rinpoche and Lobsang Dhondup.
Despite the resolution we adopted unanimously, despite appeals from all over the world and demonstrations held in front of national parliaments, despite numerous vigils held by volunteers and despite strong protests voiced by diplomats, Lobsang Dhondup was executed in January 2003.
I concur with the view held by the three previous speakers, namely that our remaining silent would be the worst thing that could happen to a culture and a people we value.
On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I call on the European institutions to bring more pressure to bear on the Chinese authorities.
I should also like to remind the Council that this House has repeatedly made joint calls for a special representative for Tibet, who would be able to make a productive contribution to the finding of a peaceful solution.
Yet how is China to gain trust or approval if it does not observe human rights or respect minorities?
We greatly welcome the fact that China has made some progress, such as initiating dialogue with representatives of the Dalai Lama and releasing, after decades of martyrdom in various prisons, the nun Ngawang Sangdrol, whom we were delighted to welcome to the European Parliament, having, indeed, played a part in her release.
The Chinese authorities must no longer resist the voice of common sense. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation being what it is, it is difficult to discuss the fate of Tibet and the fate of the Tibetan people without emotion and without personal involvement.
The Tibetan people live in unique circumstances imposed by nature and have always been somewhat isolated from the surrounding world.
Yet for several decades, the Tibetan people have been subjected to fierce persecution by China, an imperialist and Communist country that took advantage of the fact that Tibet has never aspired to any kind of special international standing.
We have tabled a joint motion for a resolution intended as an appeal to all the EU governments and those who will participate in the EU-China summit to ensure that China puts a stop to such persecution.
Tenzin Delek Rinpoche is an emblem: he is an important lama of Lithang county in Kardze, arrested in 2002 just after an attack in Chengdu.
Tenzin is a Buddhist monk who is very popular among Tibetans for his unshakable loyalty to the Dalai Lama, which he has openly professed on many occasions, and for always having refused to recognise the Panchen Lama chosen by Beijing in 1995.
Respect for human rights in Tibet is a strong concern of the European Union and, as Mrs Lichtenberger said, 'a key item' on the agenda of the EU-China human rights dialogue.
More generally, as part of its overall policy on Tibet, the European Union has called for many years and will continue to call for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities, as the only realistic way to find a lasting solution to the question of Tibet.
In its dialogue with China, the European Union has already regularly expressed concern about the extensive use of the death penalty, referring to its long-standing position in favour of abolition.
In the fight against terrorism, it has also stressed that this fight can only be successful if it is firmly rooted in respect for fundamental principles governing international relations, particularly as regards safeguarding human rights. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
It is not only international protest which is now needed in Eritrea, but dialogue with civil society within the country itself, as the only way in which a peaceful coexistence can and will be re-established in the country is by sitting all the participants down at one table and endeavouring to reopen the channels of dialogue.
The situation is tragic in the extreme, and I would ask you all to vote in favour of our motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Eritrea has not had a fortunate history but I do not recall anything in its recent past which has been as atrocious as the situation is now.
We frequently talk of universal human rights, but I am not sure that our European understanding of such rights can always be applied in all countries throughout the world and in all cultural contexts.
In spite of this, however, it must be said that for a number of years now we have witnessed attempts by some of the most reactionary regimes to use their support to promote the development of hotbeds of obscurantism and militant Islam in certain areas of the world, as well as to bring about a military solution to border disputes, for example in the case of Eritrea and Ethiopia.
Although attempts were made in the past to establish democratic principles and peaceful cooperation with its neighbours, the situation in Eritrea has now become a great deal more complex, and there is a gradual deterioration in the majority of fields monitored by international organisations.
We must not stand idly by while members of the Eritrean parliament and foreign journalists are held in prison without any kind of formal charge, while freedoms laid down in Eritrea’s Constitution are violated, and while the fundamental requirements of international human rights conventions are contravened.
Today, then, sees our debate on Côte d’Ivoire being followed by one on Eritrea, a country which has not been independent for all that long and which has already been involved in a bloody border dispute with its larger neighbour, Ethiopia.
Eleven former members of parliament, the ‘Asmara 11’, have been imprisoned since September 2001 without any charges against them.
Journalists have been arrested, and, as has already been said, the country occupies the unenviable position of fifth to last in the world press freedom ranking.
At the same time, we must step up humanitarian aid and also give more support to all non-state actors fighting for no more and no less than the noble text of the 1997 Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the political dialogue which the European Union is having with the Eritrean authorities locally is being dominated by the worrying situation in terms of religious freedom.
The draft resolution does not do justice to this important communication by the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, and I very much regret that.
Recently, prisoners have been allegedly executed at the Adi Abeto military prison and the government of Sudan – itself a government not known for respect for human rights – now accuses Eritrea of aiding the Darfur rebels and their groupings.
Some of these points have been elaborated by Mrs Lichtenberger and Mr Kohlíček.
The restriction of religious freedom is part of the overall trend of severely restricting civil and political rights in Eritrea.
The Commission is aware of recent reports from different international partners to the effect that the Eritrean government has violated human and religious rights and is restricting freedom of worship for some religious minorities.
On 4 November, the Commission witnessed events in Asmara during which Eritrean security forces indiscriminately arrested thousands of youths suspected of evading military conscription.
The Commission is endeavouring to address the problem through support for NGO projects in Eritrea in the areas of human and civil rights awareness, strengthening of civil society organisations and independent media.
It has been difficult though to identify civil society and human rights projects because of the weak capacity of local civil society and the fragile political situation.
The Commission is analysing the situation and will soon present proposals on the basis of Cotonou Agreement, as was called for by Mr Kohlíček, Mr Gahler and Mr&#160;Tannock.
In conclusion, on regional relations, the European Union is anxious, as a witness to the Algiers agreement on the solution of the border dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, to maintain open, balanced and measured dialogue with both parties. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; We shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions debated this afternoon. (1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, we propose the inclusion in this resolution of item&#160;20 of the excellent report tabled yesterday by Mr&#160;Romeva&#160;i&#160;Rueda, on the lifting of the arms embargo on China.
If you will allow me, I would like to read out the text of this item; ‘calls on the Council and the Member States to maintain the EU embargo on trade in arms with the People’s Republic of China and not to weaken the existing national limitations on such arms sales; considers that this embargo should be maintained until such time as the EU has adopted a legally binding Code of Conduct on Arms Exports and the People’s Republic of China has taken concrete steps towards improving the human rights situation in that country, inter alia by ratifying the UN Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and by fully respecting the rights of minorities’.
That is the original wording, which met with general approval, and so we propose that it be included at this point. &#160;&#160; Before voting on Mr Mann’s oral amendment, does anybody object to the presentation of the amendment? (2) (3) &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
