EMU@10 - The first ten years of Economic and Monetary Union (Commission communication) (debate) The next item is the Commission communication on the first ten years of Economic and Monetary Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the historic decision to introduce the euro, to launch the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union, a decision that was adopted by the European Council meeting from 1 to 3 May 1998.
Today, both within and beyond our borders, the euro is a symbol of European integration used by 320 million European citizens every day.
Thanks to the euro, the European Union - and in particular the 15 countries of the euro area - is a much more economically integrated area, with more trade, more opportunities, more employment and markets that operate more efficiently.
Thanks to the euro, our economies are better protected from external shocks and have become more important and influential on world markets.
All of this has translated into many tangible benefits, but if you will allow me to mention it, the greatest of all of them has been that in the last ten years 16 million jobs have been created in the euro area.
Therefore, in the Communication that we adopted this morning, the Commission not only wishes to take stock of the past, but we also propose starting a debate on what needs to be improved for the future.
However, it makes no sense for us to note with satisfaction the dominant position of the euro in the global markets whilst at the same time refusing to act collectively in a manner in line with this new status.
Although I know that it is difficult to achieve this in the short term, given the interests that are involved, I would also like to say to Parliament - and I know that Parliament agrees with me - that this is a strictly necessary objective.
Better governance of the euro area will come from the Ecofin Council being fully involved in matters of Economic and Monetary Union; it will come from a strengthening of the agenda and the debates of the Eurogroup, in particular in terms of the economic policy coordination I have already mentioned; and it will come from an even closer dialogue between the Commission and Parliament, and between the Eurogroup and Parliament.
This very morning, the Commission adopted the Convergence Report paving the way for Slovakia to join the euro area on 1 January 2009.
We can therefore tackle this new phase with confidence and optimism, but we should also do it with the same determination and with the understanding that what is good for Economic and Monetary Union is good for the European Union as a whole, for all of its Member States and all of its citizens.
We want to improve conditions but we do not want what the Members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are calling for, which is to establish a type of economic governance.
The first is that the long-term presidency of the Eurogroup, held by Mr Juncker, has brought improvements in the way in which this body operates.
Pierre Werner, a former Prime Minister of Luxembourg, along with Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt, when they were still Finance Ministers, submitted blueprints heading in this direction.
If there had been a referendum in the first 12 Member States in the euro area at that time, we would not have the euro today, at least not in any of those countries.
The inflation rate in the last 10 years was lower than in the previous 10 years, even in very stability-conscious countries like Germany.
The first presidents, Wim Duisenberg and Jean-Claude Trichet, did exceptionally good work here.
It is clear - and I differ from Mrs Berès on this point - that we cannot simultaneously ask for greater coordination between the two and say that the European Central Bank must remain totally independent.
The second problem is that Maastricht gave the Council responsibility for exchange rate policy, although the weapon of exchange rate policy is the interest rate, and the interest rate is controlled by the European Central Bank.
It therefore needs to be very clearly stated that, when it comes to exchange rates, the European Central Bank must subordinate its interest rate to the exchange rate policy defined by the Council.
However, this was not in the Treaty of Maastricht.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the many calm words contained in the lengthy report tabled here offer reassurance, but only up to a point: the fact remains that we would need only to listen to what our citizens made of this technical report with its 32-page bibliography.
Unfortunately, the ECB - granted monetary sovereignty by the Maastricht Treaty and therefore economic sovereignty over the Member States - does not always seem to make decisions - keeping interest rates high or low, for example - that reflect the wider interests of real production and the productivity of our countries.
Now, however, a correction has been made, as we have recently heard from Mr Almunia: economic growth will drop to 2% this year, and then to 1.8% in 2009.
In the United States, the annual rate of growth from 1990 to 2007 over 17 years was 2.9%, while in the EU it was just 2%.
Every single citizen in the monetary union could have been EUR 38 000 better off with a different policy if the growth rate in Europe had only matched that in the United States before the latest crisis.
He is a pleasant and able colleague, but he is wrong about most things, and he is totally wrong in this case.
Personally I would really like to see a new Swedish referendum in the autumn of 2010 or the spring of 2011.
I would like to see a 'Ten years of the euro' publicity campaign that highlights the advantages of the euro for citizens in the Member States, and I call on the Commission, the ECB and the Member States to communicate the additional value of the euro to citizens this year in concrete terms. (SK) Today we commemorate the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the euro as a single currency.
It is an important day for the Slovak Republic, which will in all likelihood start using the euro on 1 January 2009.
On this occasion I would like to emphasise that the Slovak Republic has been given the opportunity to become a member of the euro zone as a result of the significant reforms adopted by the former Slovak Government led by Mikuláš Dzurinda.
The Slovak Republic will learn from Malta and Cyprus with their apparently stable inflation figures to date. - (LT) Ten years is long enough to be able to assess the benefits - or lack thereof - of the Economic and Monetary Union.
The factor of stability and growth has been revised, as none of the countries has succeeded in its implementation.
This does not even take into account the undemocratic and unaccountable decision-making processes of the European Central Bank.
This is why the euro is attractive to countries that have joined the European Union but are not yet members of the euro zone.
The euro area is also destined to be the driving force behind the next stage of Community integration. (PL) Madam President, if the introduction of the euro has been such a success and provided such practical and economic benefits, I am wondering - and here I am addressing Commissioner Almunia - whether it would not be worth investing a few euros in education, in motivating the new Member States even more to get involved in this common euro area as soon as possible.
I think that this is a reason to thank those who launched this initiative in the first few decades of European integration: Mr Werner in 1970, for the first report on Economic and Monetary Union; Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt in the 1970s and 1980s; of course Jacques Delors and all those who, along with him, worked to make the Maastricht Treaty and the idea of Economic and Monetary Union itself that we are developing a possibility.
For example, one achievement is that all of the excessive deficits in the euro area have been corrected.
This is what this initiative is about: getting us moving again, and I will bring you a list of issues to debate in Parliament and in the Eurogroup, and I agree with those of you who have said that the work of the Eurogroup is incredibly important and that the work that it has been doing under the chairmanship of Jean-Claude Juncker is very positive.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the plan that the European Commission is presenting should be more of the same: more economic checks to ensure greater competitiveness and financial stability for the economic groups, increased budgetary supervision in order to press ahead with the liberalisation of public services and more pressure and controls in order to prevent wage increases.
The euro has been a success in the sense that tourists can use the same money in all the EMU countries and compare prices.
The euro adoption in Romania entails the prior participation in the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM II) for two years, namely as of 2012.
