Situation in Burma (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Burma.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and our discussions are highly topical and, of course, the Council and the Portuguese Presidency are monitoring events in Burma (Myanmar) with extreme concern.
In our continuing dialogue on Burma with partners in the region, including China, India and ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries, we are encouraging the latter to talk regularly to the regime, placing particular emphasis on the following points: first, the long-term stability of Burma requires a genuine transformation, especially political; second, the opening-up of the country is crucial to the development of Burma and is also in the interests of its neighbours and the international community as a whole.
We are also preparing for additional action through diplomatic channels and will remain in contact with the United Nations, in particular with Ibrahim Gambari, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, who met with the presidency and institutions of the European Union in July, in other words immediately before the summer recess.
The fact that the massive protest movement - with some 100 000 people taking to the streets of Rangoon last Monday - does not have a political agenda or any declared demands, obviously renders the situation more unstable and more precarious.
Throughout my time in this Parliament I have fought against two particular odious regimes: Mugabe in Zimbabwe and the military junta in Burma.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe, indeed the whole world, is looking at Burma.
There is no turning back on the road to democracy, even in Burma.
The Burmese regime does not only repress the population in the political sphere, it has also plunged the people into abject poverty and destitution, while it is a country that has everything necessary to be prosperous.
The mass demonstrations of the Burmese people provide abundant evidence that Aung San Suu Kyi certainly does not stand alone, but that she carries the hopes of the vast majority of Burmese.
And, as colleagues have said, it is up to us to use our influence, not just against the Burma regime but also our influence with China, India and Bangladesh to ensure that there is coherence and adherence to the sanctions that are in place and the demands for democracy.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Madam President, it is obvious that recent events in Burma are increasingly leading us to a point of no return.
I feel that the large-scale demonstrations, not only by monks and nuns, but by thousands upon thousands of people who have supported and continue to support these protests, are sending a clear message to the military junta in Burma, but also a clear message to the world, stating that the Burmese people have had enough, that they are weary of the situation and that they want change.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when our resolutions and statements do not remain a dead letter or a feeble voice in the great ear of the Council, they are caught up in the flurry of events which certainly do not coincide with or await our plenary schedule.
Its recitals detail the numerous human rights violations being perpetrated in that country today, but they omit to recall that a Marxist-inspired and then military regime has been oppressing its people for decades, with support from China as is well known.
The situation for the Burmese opposition is like that of the decades-old struggle of the Karen people: a lot of noise in Europe and the United States, but let that country sort out its own affairs.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I tried very briefly in my speech to give this House detailed and comprehensive information on all the political and diplomatic measures being taken and contacts being made in relation to the Burma (Myanmar) issue, on how we have been monitoring the situation and on what we have done.
in writing. - (NL) A new drama is playing out in Burma.
The junta has chosen confrontation with thousands of peaceful demonstrators.
The European Commission should make optimum use of the emergency funds, provided for in objective 1 of the Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights budget, so that sufficient support can be given to independent media, human rights activists and NGOs in Burma.
in writing. - The situation in Burma is extremely worrying.
