Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 13 February 2003.
Mr President, since submitting that request to you I now speak not just on behalf of the 36 Members but on behalf of my group.
I wish to draw the House's attention to reports which have appeared in the Belgian, German and UK newspapers this weekend which relate to quite serious allegations that the European Parliament and also Members of the Commission may have been misled in relation to elements of the evidence in the Andreasen affair.
This arises in the context of a report apparently commissioned by Commissioner Kinnock prior to suspending the Commission accountant.
For that reason, I propose to the House that tomorrow at 5 p.m., when the Commission attends, the Commission should explain its position in relation to this document, which is allegedly a report from the head of internal audit making these serious allegations.
Therefore, my group believes that, when dealing with these issues, rather than taking advantage of certain leaks which have appeared on one weekend in the press of certain countries, of which I believe the majority of this House have no knowledge, and while I have every respect for the principle of freedom of expression, we must abide by our procedures and adhere to our Rules of Procedure, as well as respecting the Treaties and the specific institution of the Commission.
Therefore, Mr President, we are opposed to this absolutely untimely proposal and we believe that Parliament should continue its work in accordance with the established procedures.
As I understand it, this supposed story relates to a memo dated 21 May 2002.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we should be extremely careful.
If it votes after us, I believe it is important for a vote to be held within the European Parliament asking the States represented on the Security Council to vote against the resolution proposed by the United Kingdom, Spain and the United States.
Mr President, we are in a particularly delicate situation because a minute can last forever and events are taking place which allow us to remain hopeful that the resolution approved by a majority of Parliament in January - not December - will remain valid.
I am very pleased that we will be voting on this issue this week, because it is clear that information is already being passed on to the United States.
If we are unable to do so this evening, I would like to have an urgent additional meeting tomorrow to ensure that the specialist committee retains control of this matter.
The clear decision of the House is that it should be voted on Thursday of this week, as foreseen in the draft agenda. (The order of business was thus established) The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
They are relatives of some of the victims of the 11 September atrocity and they asked me to convey to you and this House that they do not seek revenge.
We consider their protest to be legitimate and we support them.
It should be pointed out that the aim of the proposal for a directive they are criticising is none other than to reduce salaries and, therefore, to authorise the recruitment of staff from outside the docks to do the work instead of them.
There was no immediate security problem, there were no demonstrators in sight, but the French police refused us admittance to the building.
First they make you get out of the taxi or the car or the bus in the wrong place, and then when the taxi has gone, they tell you that you have to walk another 400 metres.
Mr President, I would simply like to tell my fellow Members that I am somewhat surprised.
You will remember that they were arrested on 8 November 2001.
At their trial on 26 April 2002 many of them were sentenced to terms of imprisonment, but at their appeal on 6 November 2002 those present were acquitted of all charges.
Many of us have complained to Estonia, to the Commission delegation in Tallinn, because these women were imprisoned on the grounds that a businessman had been assassinated by two professional hit-men.
For over 18 months, however, these women have been in prison without trial, in that they have never had a public hearing.
The officially-appointed lawyers have not provided them with any documents concerning their case or any information at all on their situation or the proceedings that are underway.
Mr President, could you resume your efforts to ensure that the law, the law as we understand it here in this House - human rights, the rights of the individual - is respected in Estonia in the case of Natacha and Maria Illiasova?
Mr President, I have taken the floor to ask for information on the participation of the European Parliament in the ministerial segment of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, which is to take place in Vienna on 16 and 17 April 2003, to take stock, after the first five disastrous years, of the progress made in the UN ten-year plan to combat drugs, which, in theory, should have wiped drugs off the face of the earth by 2008 but which is only bringing a resurgence of repression and suppression of individual rights and freedoms in the field.
There is therefore another war that needs to be stopped.
Surely the intention of Rule 151 is not to give the political groups the right to decide that the matter should not even be discussed in plenary when across the House so many Members regard this as a very serious matter.
Mr President, I would like to speak on the basis of Rule 8 of our Rules of Procedure.
Current French law stipulates that any Member of the European Parliament elected to a post that places them in a situation of incompatibility, such as president of a French departmental council, shall, purely by virtue of that fact, cease to exercise their mandate.
It would seem that the competent authorities in my country have not informed you of the end of Mr Pasqua's mandate.
If we are democrats and believe this Parliament has meaning, then we should allow debate to flourish.
The request by 170 Members was for the establishment of a committee of inquiry.
Mr President, about two weeks ago, the British authorities arrested a Greek student because, according to press reports, he was collating material for a dissertation on terrorism.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights, approved by this Parliament, prohibits any discrimination on the grounds of language or of belonging to a national minority and enshrines the principle of freedom of expression and information without the interference of public authorities.
This newspaper has been closed for preventive reasons, putting all of its workers out of work, without even complying with the provisions of Article 129 of the Spanish Penal Code, on which their decision is based, since they have not allowed the required prior hearing of the company's legal representatives.
They have closed it simply because it defends the right of Basques to their own identity and to use their own language.
Mr President, this should not come as a surprise to anybody because in 1992 the former Interior Minister for the Basque Government, and now President of the Basque Parliament, said that Egunkaria was part of ETA and in 1993 the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party stated publicly that ETA participated in the appointment of the management of the newspaper.
We are not talking about an issue of language, but of the manipulation some people wish to carry out in order to achieve radical votes on 25 May and that, Mr President, is simply repugnant.
The next item is the Commission statement on the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) within the WTO, including cultural diversity.
Mr President, services are one of the new areas of international trade that directly concern social preference and lifestyle and that, therefore, more than goods, are a source of concern to the citizens and their representatives.
These concerns relate, in particular, to the transparency of international negotiations, preserving our public services and behaviour towards developing countries, if I am to go by the questions raised by a number of you.
Before I present to you the European Union's offers for opening up the services markets, I would briefly like to remind you what these negotiations involve.
First of all, let us recall the spirit in which the Union is conducting these negotiations: we need to pursue our economic interests proactively while also defending our European social model and enabling developing countries to integrate more fully into the world economy.
The two cannot be separated if we want to achieve our objectives in these international negotiations, which are to reinvigorate growth, integrate the developing countries into world trade and ensure that, in opening up the markets, we respect the various preferences and values of our societies.
This applies equally to developed countries and developing countries.
Secondly, the European Union has a great deal to gain from these negotiations.
Lastly, services are often the Achilles' heel of many developing countries whose export capacity is restricted by low productivity levels and the lack of competition in their service industries.
Most of these countries, furthermore, are well aware of this, as is shown by the fact that more than half of the requests received by the Union relating to opening up trade in services come precisely from developing countries: Kenya, India, Mali, Gambia, Egypt, Mauritius and Brazil, amongst others.
Certainly not: a significant number of services are already the subject of trade which is, quite rightly, strictly regulated, and encouragement given to trade in services must respect this regulatory framework which was established by the competent public authorities.
That is why, in our opinion, the Union was right to choose the WTO as the main framework for opening up the services markets.
Contrary to what is sometimes claimed, multilateral negotiations provide greater transparency and better conduct on the part of States since they are based on clear rules which are familiar to and accepted by all participants in the negotiations.
Without organisation of trade at a world level, negotiations on services would take place on an entirely bilateral basis with no common rules of play, which would undoubtedly lead to pressure on the developing countries.
First principle: the negotiations concern trade in services and not the way in which it is regulated in each country.
The WTO negotiations have no direct or indirect connection with the decisions on privatisation that particular States might take.
Third principle: there is no sectoral reciprocity in these negotiations.
The United States, for example, could very well decide to open up the education sector without obliging other States to follow suit in the negotiations.
The General Agreement on Trade in Services does not cover services that are not provided on a commercial basis or in competition with other service providers.
It is only when the States choose to subject their public services to market rules, therefore, that they become subject to the rules of this market and can enter the negotiations.
Fifth and final principle: with regard to major services of public interest - education, health, culture, water, energy and public transport - each country is free to choose between various formulas.
They can organise the service as a public or private monopoly.
They could also, for example, open up the services market to national and foreign suppliers, but without entering into any multilateral GATS commitment.
Lastly, they can, for example, enter into GATS commitments relating to the right of foreign companies to supply services in addition to national suppliers, but have the choice of whether or not to grant them full national treatment.
The General Agreement on Services does not, therefore, affect the definition of public service missions, their organisation or their funding.
From this point of view, the member States of the WTO retain all their freedom.
We consider these protective barriers to be the best guarantees for Europe to be able to continue to develop its own model of services of public interest while still benefiting from the advantages relating to opening up trade in services.
This is a more effective way of preserving the European model than excluding services of public interest from the scope of the General Agreement on Trade in Services, a suggestion which I have often had cause to debate.
I believe that such exclusion would be counterproductive, as it would lead to the multilateral definition of a comprehensive list of services considered to be of public interest and would open a multilateral debate on the desirable content of this list, a subject on which each Member State of the WTO might have a different view.
I feel that, ultimately, we would run the risk of ending up with a more limited list than the Union itself would wish for.
In order to be able to achieve these proactive objectives, the Union must present a substantial offer.
Since then, the documents that set out our approach to the negotiations have been widely published, in particular on our website.
I would specify that these requests do not seek to dismantle public services or privatise public companies.
No request has been made to any country by the Union with regard to health services or audiovisual services, and only the United States has received a request from us, restricted to privately funded higher education.
In so doing, we would like to make a particular effort to take account of the requests of developing countries by proposing to improve the Union's commitments in terms of the temporary movement of persons.
This offer was designed to safeguard public services fully within the Union, and I shall come back to that before concluding.
No new commitments have been proposed in the fields of education and health, and we are not proposing any commitments in the field of audiovisual services.
I know and I am well aware that the restricted classification under which this text was sent to you does not fully satisfy you, or in any case some of you, and that is why we have done our best to contribute to an informed parliamentary debate.
One last point on this matter of transparency: I have decided to make all our proposals public once they have been finalised.
At this stage, we are not proposing any commitments with regard to trade in water collection, purification and distribution either, both because we have only received one request in this sector, and because we would also like to clarify with our WTO partners what exactly the provision of services covers in this sector.
Having said that, this is a field in which we have significant active interests, and some of our Member States have already pointed this out to us.
It is the beginning of the negotiations and our opening offer would, of course, only become a commitment if, during the negotiations, others were also prepared to improve access to their services market for our European operators.
Lastly, let us talk about trade in cultural and audiovisual services and about cultural diversity.
Culture and, more specifically, the audiovisual sector, are not excluded from the General Agreement on Trade in Services.
Quite simply, at the end of the Uruguay Round, the Union fully preserved its current and future freedom of manoeuvre by not making any commitments in terms of market access or national treatment in this sector.
Furthermore, at the time, we kept a long list of exemptions from the most-favoured-nation clause which allows us to discriminate between third countries with regard to the treatment given, within the Union, to their audiovisual works.
The Commission's mandate for the negotiations underway consists of preserving political requests in terms of preserving and promoting cultural diversity.
As the promotion of cultural diversity is included in the EC Treaty, it naturally forms part of our trade policy.
Others, such as India, have also announced active interests without, however, having tabled specific requests.
We believe we could convince countries, in particular the developing countries, more effectively of the legitimacy of our argument if we were able to show our genuine openness to diversity and, to that end, we need a proactive approach.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the European Union has always declared its commitment to cultural diversity, a commitment which is also an obligation under Article 151 of the Treaty.
In this sense, the Union is one of the major players in a controlled globalisation which meets the expectations of the people.
Moreover, the debates underway in the various international forums on cultural diversity clearly demonstrate that Europe is not alone.
Firstly, as Mr Lamy explained, a firm position in the WTO comprising no commitments in the area of the liberalisation of audiovisual and cultural services, in order to preserve the freedom necessary for the preservation and development of national and Community instruments seeking to achieve cultural diversity objectives.
Thirdly, the active participation of the Union in international discussions on cultural diversity.
Secondly, even where services which are not covered by this exemption are concerned, the States have the right to decide, according to a basis which can be very detailed, the bottom up approach, in which sectors and sub-sectors they will grant access to their markets or national treatment.
Thirdly, even after opting for market access or national treatment, they can qualify their commitments with conditions stipulating the restrictions they will apply under their national legislation.
Fourthly and lastly, GATS recognises the States' right to preserve or introduce regulations, laws or other provisions providing for access to quality services at reasonable prices.
The commitments given by the Commission and its Member States at the Uruguay Round only relate to private education.
Public services in the field of education are not affected by these commitments at all and the aim of the commitments given is to ensure that, insofar as and only insofar as a private services market exists, the nationals and operators of the partner countries can have access to them under the same conditions as the nationals of the country concerned.
Moreover, even as regards the private sector covered by the commitments, the Member States have been able to specify the content through a whole series of conditions that they already apply and that they will be able to continue to apply.
After consulting the Member States and the different parties concerned, we concluded that it is not appropriate to give new commitments increasing access to the Community market in this sector either.
Indeed, although we are protecting our European system within Europe, this European system is open to students from all over the world.
The Commissioner rightly points out that this is the most dynamic sector.
I think that we must see the practical results in the light of the economies of the developing countries, so I am very pleased that 50% of the requests have come from developing countries.
The Commissioner has mentioned the Erasmus project, but does this mean that only individual Member States can make an offer on this point and that nothing is happening at all with regard to universities throughout the whole of the EU?
Commissioner Reding provided a very convincing argument for not making a new proposal for the audio-visual sector.
On the other hand, we must also avoid a situation in which people work under other conditions in the European Union, because this could result in social dumping.
I therefore think that it is important to create a good balance, and since September 11 we have naturally also had to look at security aspects.
I therefore think that it should also benefit developing countries.
GATS directly affects the interests of many EU citizens, and I appreciate Commissioner Lamy's efforts to broaden communication and provide more information.
Bearing Cancun in mind, I therefore also hope that the Commissioner will put forward new proposals to make this process even more transparent.
I would like to ask the Commissioner what initiatives she has taken in this area and what results they have produced.
In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Commissioner Lamy speaks about the fact that 2003 will be the year in which the WTO must deliver.
Developing countries have not rejected GATS completely.
However, the fears about public services, regulation and extension and the fact that the developing countries do not have the capacity for the administration that an opening-up of service markets will require all mean that the implications of opening up trade in services need to be very fully assessed.
If, in the future, we want to prevent European Union trade policy being shaped - and sometimes arbitrarily shaped - by both the press and specific campaign groups, we must reassert parliamentary prerogatives in this field to open up the debate to proper, accountable public scrutiny.
I seem to remember, however, that your mandate for Seattle in 1999 included the promotion as well as the preservation of cultural diversity.
My second question is to Commissioner Reding.
Since your neighbour, Commissioner Lamy, has made you responsible for the proactive measures, how is that being addressed in the Treaty?
We would like Article 151(4) to be respected and given due importance once again in the future Treaty.
However, I am extremely disappointed to see that the majority of the Members have abandoned the question of the international instrument in the motions tabled today, even though it has the support of 50 or so countries and has been proposed by President Chirac and others to Unesco.
Commissioner Lamy, you say that plenary debates like this are to fully inform Parliament about the progress of GATS negotiations but, in the absence of the document that would tell us precisely what is being demanded of whom, this exchange is almost entirely academic.
Finally, development.
DG Trade's press release announcing the EU-GATS offers says they are all about helping developing countries.
The EU made 109 requests and received just 27 requests back.
Two great Europeans, Adam Smith and David Ricardo, have explained to us that the wealth of nations benefits greatly precisely from international trade, and that is how Europe's wealth has increased.
Mr President, Commissioner Reding, Commissioner Lamy, on behalf of my group and, I am sure, of the whole of this House's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I welcome the Commission's decision not to make any offer to deregulate educational, cultural and audiovisual services in this GATS round.
Although we emphatically want borders to be opened up to international trade, there is a fundamental distinction to be drawn between cultural services and others, such as those in telecommunications, transport, or, indeed, finance.
The Commission is to be thanked for setting out the first phase in today's proposal that GATS should not cover the provision of cultural and audiovisual services.
The second stage goes beyond that, and I want to say how grateful I am to Commissioner Reding, who, with this in mind, is representing the Commission's and Parliament's views - and, I hope, the Council's - in the international discussions and working parties on the subject.
Commissioner Lamy, Commissioner Reding, as you have, indeed, noted, these GATS negotiations are giving rise to a great deal of concern in the countries of the European Union, and this trend is reminiscent in many respects of unrest at the time of the Multilateral Agreement on Investments (MAI).
That said, more broadly speaking, the concern is due to the fact that the negotiations and their outcome will affect much more than trade rules, impacting on the internal rules of the countries belonging to the WTO as well.
When we talk about water supply or the postal services sector, for example, not about cross-border postal services but the internal organisation of the postal services sector, it is clear that we are going beyond the bounds of international trade.
At the beginning, the Commission's position and statements declared that liberalisation offers would not be made in the field of European public services.
In actual fact, we can see that offers have been made in the field of postal services and that, subject to clarification and classification in the WTO, offers could be made in the field of energy and water.
I believe we must not put that kind of pressure on the developing countries.
Quite the opposite: we must promote cooperation, we must promote investment in sectors where these countries need it but within the framework of cooperation, letting them decide what environmental, social or other rules to impose on foreign investors.
It would be sufficient to amend the subparagraph which restricts the definition of governmental services to services which are not provided on a commercial or competitive basis and stipulate that the States belonging to the WTO are free to exclude their public services from this negotiation.
The European Union must indeed take the lead in the WTO negotiations about the liberalisation of trade in services and the achievement of a general GATS agreement.
First of all, the fact is that services are forming an ever more significant part of world trade, 24% of which, as we know, is accounted for by the European Union.
We must therefore concentrate more than ever before on the trade in services, and this once again applies in particular to the European Union where services represent more than two-thirds of the total gross domestic product.
We must not, however, negotiate solely on the basis of our own interests but also on the basis of the interests of other countries and other parts of the world.
Liberalisation means we must also open our borders more to services from third countries and thus contribute to their further development.
Progress has been made in transparency but there is no WTO forum and the European Parliament has only a very limited power of consultation.
The battle to defend public services is falling far short of expectations.
The threats of disintegration lie within the European Union, where competition policy is inappropriately applied and the specific rules much too weak.
That said, I would like to see whether our demands for liberalisation take into account the need of the countries of the southern hemisphere for services of general interest, and I would point out that there is no framework for the activity of multinational firms.
Commissioner Lamy, you began with a report full of atmosphere, propagandising for the European model, and referring to the interest of developing countries.
I do not want Brussels to be the venue for a debate on a liberalisation introduced to Europe through a back door called GATS.
It is now for us to move into the second stage, taking the offensive in the same way and joining as one in this debate, using every possible means of action available to us in order to create an international and binding instrument to protect and promote cultural diversity.
Mr President, we feel that this debate on the opening of WTO negotiations to liberalise trade in services is extremely patchy.
The Commission prides itself on a negotiating mandate dating from 1999, before Seattle, which is now completely obsolete.
We are not against all liberalisation in principle, but it must at all times be controlled by the peoples concerned.
If we follow the Commission in this matter, we will find ourselves caught up in ill-defined negotiations which could have a serious effect on the people's control over their public services and all the rules safeguarding their societies.
Of course, the Commission assures us that no liberalisation offer will be made by the Union in the fields of health or education or the audiovisual sector and that it will negotiate to preserve cultural diversity, but these declarations are not enough for us.
We have too much experience not to be familiar with the wheels within wheels and traps hidden in this kind of agreement, which only come to light after the event, when we have already signed on the dotted line.
If we want to avoid further human tragedies in the future, we must address problems earlier on in the process.
That is why we call for these negotiations to be postponed until a genuinely public, democratic debate has taken place, until we have clearly assessed all the implications of GATS.
Mr President, I wish to support Commissioner Lamy on the far-sighted and important programme he is pursuing.
We do not yet have an internal market for services.
I expect we will hear some of the concerns in the debates tonight when we look at our own market.
One of the most important proposals we have worked on here is the liberalisation of electronic communications, a single framework for a converging sector.
It is those electronic communications that are really opening up the way to a global trade in services that we have never seen before.
A couple of months ago I was at an important meeting in Brussels, with representatives from the developing world talking about electronic communications and how they want to build their infrastructures.
Critics are concerned that, in this field, countries are seen as growth areas subject to market mechanisms and capable of developing their own dynamics going far beyond what was originally laid down.
The trade in services in the European Union therefore accounts for more than two-thirds of our gross foreign product and jobs.
Further liberalisation also benefits developing countries, because trade in services promotes the infrastructure, such as telecommunications, and also the financial infrastructure for the trade in goods.
In my view we must therefore stand four-square behind liberalisation and in particular avoid focusing too much on the exceptions that some of the Member States want to implement.
It is therefore ridiculous that Member States who do not want this are denying this Parliament any say because they are afraid of changes to the audio-visual sector.
The right of EU and third-country citizens, including those of developing countries, of access to essential goods and services including water, education, health, culture, energy, transport and telecommunications, is in danger of being undermined.
We are all familiar with disastrous examples of the privatisation of services in many countries, including transport in the United Kingdom, electricity in the United States and in Portugal, and water distribution and healthcare services in many developing countries.
We are therefore concerned to learn of the Commission's proposals, which overlook the importance of public services in areas such as energy, transport, postal services and telecommunications, in terms of social cohesion, the public's well-being and social inclusion.
A moratorium must therefore be declared on the liberalisation of services and the Commission must draw up a detailed report on the foreseeable economic, social and environmental consequences of the policies of liberalisation emanating from the World Trade Organization, both in the European Union and in the developing countries.
The essential role of public services in every country's development and social cohesion must also be respected, with no proposals put forward that provide for further liberalisations in third countries or for European Union bids in the field of public services.
The Commission must also call for cultural diversity not only to be preserved, but also promoted, as has already been stressed here on more than one occasion.
Mr Lamy, you think that more competition will provide the poor with high quality drinking water.
Bogota, Buenos Aires and Jakarta are proof of that.
Therefore, let us have the political courage to define water as a public good and exclude it from GATS.
According to Unesco, culture comprises all the distinctive spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional features which characterise a society or social group.
The right to culture is a fundamental human right.
Of course, this applies to all the Member States of the Union, but it also applies to the developing countries, for cultural diversity is an integral part of our human heritage.
In order to avoid running the risk of culture being seen as just another product one day in the future, we must provide it with a new legal framework so that it does not have to be part of the negotiations on world trade.
A number of Ministers for Culture have agreed to draft this instrument, in order to provide the States in the future with the necessary means to be able to identify, from a cultural point of view and according to their specific situations, the policies they need to ensure the preservation and promotion of cultural diversity.
Madam President, I see GATS, with its creation of a new international market organisation for services, not only as restructuring the global labour market, but as presaging a new global and social order, capable of having a profound effect on the political, social and cultural values and regulatory systems that have prevailed so far in most nation states, and of restricting to a substantial degree the extent to which they can act.
The main problem with GATS is that negotiations focus on the market conditions under which services are provided across borders, to the exclusion, though, of the social conditions under which services are provided.
For as long as not even the International Labour Organisation's core labour standards are anchored in GATS, for as long as there is no fundamental clarification of the minimum conditions in labour and social security law under which migratory workers are to work on a temporary basis, I cannot imagine that a social consensus will be achieved in the EU in favour of opening up our market for services under module 4.
In an open world in which we are increasingly committed to the free interaction of cultures, cultural diversity must clearly be protected, preserved and valued, but not at the expense of hindering the free movement of values of exactly the same nature.
I do not believe - or rather I must at least express my scepticism - that 50 Ministers for Culture can resolve this matter beyond the only point that will then be accepted, which is that every Member State can do whatever it feels is most appropriate to protect its interests and its own specific cultural diversity.
Having made these observations, Madam President, I shall simply add that items 7, 8 and 9 of the report to which I have referred address the problem in a very sensible way in terms of prudence and balance and they deserve our support.
Consequently, I think we should use the World Trade Organisation to look at the problem of the internal market which, aside from its economic dimension, is very important to European citizens and to their cultural pursuits within Europe.
Madam President, Commissioner Reding, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, world trade guarantees some 20% of jobs in Europe, which means that if we gain larger markets, we can sell more and create additional jobs.
If we put markets under a sort of bell jar, if we suffocate a market, the end result is bankruptcies and unemployment, and let me say that these days, of course, decisions to do this are taken mainly at national level.
We can say that we have learned from experience - and I believe that the dock workers outside can bear witness to that - how great the desire of some countries is to dominate in the market place where production is concerned.
No, for we can identify sectors related to education and culture which could prove to be veritable Trojan horses and sabotage our efforts to preserve education and culture.
Commissioner Reding, Commissioner Lamy, I am of the opinion that the publication of both the European institutions' offer and their questions on market liberalisation via GATSwatch have made it clear that we in the European Parliament have good reason to be worried.
I would like to make two comments in this regard: firstly, Commissioner Lamy, you say that health, education, media and culture are not being liberalised.
That is correct, but there are other sectors that fall under services of general interest.
My group therefore wants clear guarantees that Member States can now regulate their services of general interest in their own way and that these services will not be subject to the GATS.
In exchange for a limited number of questions, particularly concerning the mobility of labour from southern Member States, Europe wants to liberalise a number of sectors including some that we do not want to liberalise.
Commissioner Lamy, I am of the opinion that liberalising water is not the right way to achieve the millennium targets and to halve the number of people who have no access to water.
Anyway, I am convinced that this has nothing to do with genuine concern for the southern Member States but everything to do with the interests of the water industry.
We should ensure that where we are protecting services or markets we do not oblige other countries which are less able to do battle in the open market to start up services that will simply sink or become private monopolies owned outside their own state.
If we are trying to create a multinational organisation at European level, which will have public support and legitimacy, then we cannot continue to proceed in ways which exclude the democratically elected representatives from important areas of policy.
Finally, the bottom line in terms of protectionism is that we have to protect the rights of citizens, whether they are inside or outside the European Union.
Madam President, free trade is basically a good thing.
Nevertheless, trade issues always give rise to extensive debate, and there is good cause for having such a debate.
No country must be forced into taking particular decisions.
Neither the market nor other interests must be able to force a country to implement changes that conflict with its national political ambitions.
The developing countries are particularly vulnerable.
At the same time, we must be able to require that fundamental union rights be recognised and that the environment not be destroyed and human rights ignored.
Madam President, Commissioner, I get the impression that the EU's way of conducting negotiations is listing to one side.
The Treaties require us to make sustainable development the model for all our policies, which means that we cannot carry out liberalisation without at the same time negotiating social standards and environmental norms.
At the Uruguay Round ten years ago, we rashly gave a number of commitments on opening up private universities in certain Member States.
As in all negotiations, there is a time for informing the public and a time for discretion.
Mr Désir, I completely understand all your reservations.
On the other hand, we have the debate on issues relating to external negotiations.
If we had more direction and if the agreement between us on what exactly constitutes services of public interest were more clearly defined, then some of the fears expressed in this debate would be dispelled, and rightly so.
I would remind the House once again that our proposals for this area relate only to distribution.
Given that these misgivings and concerns do exist, however, we must respond to them patiently and as clearly as possible.
Secondly, cultural products are not the same as commercial products.
I therefore agree with all those in this House who have stated that we need an international body like Unesco.
We therefore need an international legal reference standard in the interests of cultural diversity and cultural exchange.
Article 151(4) allows international action where culture is concerned and we regularly engage in this.
Modernity lies in the ability of governments to guarantee fundamental rights and not in a determination to satisfy the financial markets.
I join with more than 150 other French elected representatives in demanding transparency and the suspension of the negotiations in order to prevent an irreversible GATS.
The next item is a recommendation for second reading (A5-0050/2003) by Mr Jarzembowski, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on market access to port services [11146/1/2002 - C5-0533/2002 - 2001/0047(COD)].
There is a need for improvement in Europe's ports, and that needs to be accomplished, on the one hand, by clear rules on competition among ports and within each port, and, secondly, by means of transparent market access for harbour services.
The Council has stated its position, and now, on the basis of the first position, we again have to give our opinion.
There are four things I want to say about the 34 amendments that the committee has submitted.
That is something that the Member States should regulate for themselves.
The demonstration, and a number of strikes in European ports, were about self-handling, and this is where I am, quite seriously, astonished.
It was Parliament that, at first reading stage, restricted self-handling to a port's own staff and equipment.
The committee's report introduces a further restriction - to a ship's own crew.
I take the view that there is fierce competition among ports, and that there must be openness and a fair balance between the interests of the shipping companies and the port companies.
Nor can I understand why some are now saying that we have to make all port services subject to a conditional agreement.
At first reading stage, Parliament took exactly the same view, as did the Council in its Common Position.
There is absolutely no reason - and, Madam President, I do not consider it permissible - to vote, tomorrow, on amendments imposing, in Article 6 (1), mandatory approval on all Member States at once.
I know, Madam Vice-President, that we two have an excellent relationship, but on this point we are, unfortunately, at odds with each other, and I would again ask you to give the question further consideration.
Madam President, firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Parliament for the work it has done to date with regard to this extremely important directive and I would like in particular to thank the rapporteur, Mr Jarzembowski, for the work he has done in relation to this issue, which is extremely important in terms of providing the European Union with a competitive transport system.
We often complain that Europe could use sea transport as an alternative to road transport and land transport in general.
However, we are now sometimes being faced with a situation in which those same people who say that we must promote maritime transport create more difficulties when it comes to creating a sea transport system which is more competitive and more suited to the new circumstances.
We need to improve the efficiency of these services, put an end to situations of monopoly, which sometimes mean that the same services cost three or four times more in one European Union port than in another, indicating that something is not working, and - I insist - we must guarantee, by excluding or imposing restrictions and guarantees, so that marine safety aspects are maintained at the highest possible levels.
In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I will explain to you the Commission's position on the proposed amendments.
Some of them clearly improve the Council's Common Position and the Commission therefore accepts them in their entirety, in principle or in part.
Secondly, we can accept Amendment No 11 - which relates to a lesser frequency for the review of the list of ports of a high seasonal character - and Amendments Nos 5 and 27 - which provide examples of expensive moveable assets which could be considered equivalent to immovable assets when considering repayments or residual costs.
Furthermore, we can support all those amendments which, without going into detail, we believe make appropriate contributions to the common position or those which provide additional clarification, in one way or another, of the final text.
We therefore clearly cannot support Amendments Nos 36 and 66 which call for the Council's Common Position to be rejected.
Firstly, the question of competition between ports.
That is why I intend to accept those amendments which propose the inclusion of ports in the Commission's Directive on transparency.
In fact, our recent document on this issue demonstrates our will to resolve the problem while respecting, however, the provisions of the Treaty, Mr Jarzembowski.
And therefore, Mr Jarzembowski, I must say that Amendment No 15 goes further than such provisions and we cannot accept it.
In this regard, Amendment No 10, duly modified, with certain important alterations in accordance with the solution we may find, could help us to find that compromise formula.
With regard to Amendment No 16, I must remind you that the Commission, within the context of the so-called 'range of port measures', has already carried out a study such as the one requested and unfortunately there was little cooperation on the part of the ports.
In this regard, it is made clear that this type of action must comply with the social, environmental and safety standards required in each port and that this demand is essential in order to be able to carry out this self-handling.
Therefore, access to such a service should be regulated by the Treaty and by this directive.
For this reason, we support the consensus reached on the common position that authorisations should be conditional upon compliance with certain particularly strict criteria with regard to public service and maritime safety obligations - and again we return to the reality of each port.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote will have great repercussions on the legislative process.
The Commission has always shown itself prepared to seek constructive solutions with the European Parliament.
Furthermore, the future European transport system will only succeed with efficient and forward-looking ports.
What I have to say to all these honourable Members, whose opinion I do of course respect, is that I fail to understand how we can be in favour of liberalising the railways, in favour of liberalising air transport, in favour of liberalising telecommunications, and against liberalising port services.
Secondly, I should like to say to everyone - and to the port workers protesting today - that, in my personal opinion, they stand to benefit from the liberalisation of port services in the medium to long term, because it will create new jobs.
We have nothing against these people.
The European Parliament, at least the majority in committee, has so far stood by a number of firm principles, one of these firm principles being our espousal of the liberalisation of services, not as an end in itself, but as a means to economic growth.
And because we stand by this principle, Commissioner, we adopted an amendment, which the rapporteur referred to and which is designed to prevent discriminatory treatment by port authorities, so that the ports of the European Union can compete with each other.
This being our position, and in the light of the position taken by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism when it voted for the report, I think this is the right approach if we and the Council are to push through legislation which is acceptable to all sides as quickly as possible.
We passed them with a great deal of unanimity, and I think we will get an absolute majority of 314 votes on the decisive points when we vote tomorrow.
Discussing the part package today and voting on it tomorrow, we know that many European port cities - and I emphasise cities - have seen their workers, out of fear for their jobs, out of fear of social dumping, taking to the streets and demonstrating, and I say, for myself and on behalf of my group, that we sympathise with port workers as they draw attention to their concerns and needs.
We take the view that self-handling can mean only those things that can be done by a ship and its company on their own.
I think the committee has done very good work on these things, and the Social Democrats have tabled amendments to make overall improvements.
They therefore have nothing to do with this directive.
We hope the Commission will now present us with something good in this area, so that we can really get to grips with the problem of inter-port competition.
Commissioner, access to port services must be as open as possible, and a port must be able to operate as well as possible.
Since then we have also had a proposal from the International Maritime Organisation about safety on ships and in ports - in fact you are currently working on legislation on that.
We must therefore know who is working in our ports and under what conditions.
In addition, no prior assessment has been made of the effects of this liberalisation, especially as regards important issues such as employment, safety and the environment.
I want to know the impact of this on other sectors.
This directive makes it possible to employ workers from outside the port to do the work of the qualified workers currently employed.
The concept of self-handling will result in insecurity, worse working and employment conditions and worse environmental safety standards.
I therefore feel that the measures taken here after the sinking of the Prestige and the decision taken today to impose self-handling are totally contradictory.
I would therefore like to say to the Commissioner that from my point of view I am in favour of more maritime transport, to replace other forms of transport, for example, but I am not in favour of affecting social rights.
I would therefore like to express my concern about what is going on here, not only as shadow rapporteur for this subject in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, but also as chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
When we see what the employers' associations - and others, incidentally - are currently putting forward, which is something I would also like to find out more about from the Commissioner, namely that there is a conflict between ILO - the international labour organisation - conventions 137, which concerns port activities, and 152, which concerns the working conditions for such port activities - and the EU directive in its present form, then I wonder whether we have not jumped the gun.
There seems to be a major problem, and I would like to know if there really is, as we have not yet come to the end of the road.
Secondly, one of the reasons why the people who are protesting at the moment are angry is the fact that a number of amendments we are trying to introduce, relating amongst other things to authorisation, licences and Article 13 on self-handling, have been declared inadmissible.
Please can we link these two matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, when, a while ago in this House we considered the Green Paper on ports and maritime infra-structures, Parliament clearly identified the area in which we feel the Commission should be working.
Firstly, the list covering the funding and the system of tariffs for ports, clear rules on state aid to ports and, finally, the adoption of measures guaranteeing access to the port services market through legislative instruments established at the Commission's initiative and within its powers.
This is perhaps one of the reasons why the directive, despite the changes it has already undergone, has been contested so intensely at various levels, including here in Parliament, where a considerable number of amendments have been tabled at second reading.
We must not forget the fact that, especially in Portugal, some companies have recently taken on obligations arising from legislative requirements, such as having to absorb all workers employed in any capacity in ports and whose interests must now be safeguarded.
We cannot, therefore, accept the fact that this directive will allow any port user, who may or may not be accredited, to engage in cargo-handling activity, in contravention of national legislation on labour or on the operation of ports, which is binding on all port operators, under conditions other than those laid down, specifically for the use of operators' own equipment and workers, and possibly on docks for which a public service concession has been granted.
As I stated, the obligation on current port operators to absorb the labour force contracted to ports on salaries around three times higher than the average in sectors with identical operational requirements means that the directive will not be able to allow a port user to engage in cargo-handling activity without having to be accredited, thereby using workers in more favourable conditions than those binding current port operators under the law and under collective bargaining agreements.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although this draft directive has been considerably amended, I do not think it is any more appropriate now than it was at first reading.
After all, from practical experience in my own country, Flanders, we know that the pool system with recognised dock workers ensures that we have qualified and motivated people working in our ports who can be regarded as some of the most highly skilled workers in the world.
It is their dedication and their professional knowledge that make our ports fast, competitive and in particular safe handling organisations.
Dismantling this pool system and the dock workers' monopoly will not only result in the umpteenth social graveyard, but it will also undermine the safety of our ports, unsettle the social peace that we have, cripple the strength of our ports and even reinforce anti-European sentiment.
After all, the man in the street should realise that strong European files or files with a strong European dimension that have to be deblocked in order to secure our prosperity will in fact get us nowhere.
Today we must make it all the more clear to the Flemish port workers: working for your own people first is a guarantee of safety and quality.
Competition between ports is also important, so the Commission must ensure greater transparency in government investments that benefit the ports.
Firstly, self-handling.
In the formulation of the Council, Member States may liberalise their pilotage services if they want to, but they must do so under the directive.
In other words, with all the protection and professional qualifications that this entails.
The common position forms a balanced text which we should not tinker with too much.
Important points such as the provisions on transparency, the duration of licences, new ports and arrangements concerning the compensation that service providers have to pay when buying themselves out of a contract period, are in my opinion plain and clear.
The text of the common position does far more justice to the great diversity of situations and regulations on this point than the amendments tabled.
Firstly, we believe that, if we want to purse the aim of sustainable mobility as part of our policy on ports as proposed in the White Paper, the problem of competition in ports is certainly not the most appropriate or timely way of approaching the issue.
The Commissioner said a few moments ago that there is a one to three ratio between the prices charged by different European ports.
Mr President, with all the commotion outside, the port directive is perhaps more controversial in the second reading than it was during the first debate.
I think that the unions' fear about social dumping is nonsense.
Ultimately, what we are talking about is better quality and more services, but a monopoly must not be allowed to develop.
Mr President, today it has once again become clear how far decision-making in the European Union is from the reality of the people it concerns.
By organising themselves they have been able to improve these things and protect themselves against poorly paid, unskilled labour being hired in from outside by illegal contractors.
The main aim is to cut labour costs even further.
That was not sufficiently clear to the trade unions at the first reading in November 2001.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the International Labour Organisation has found it necessary to behave in a regulatory way in respect of port labour, precisely because port labour has so much to do with safety and because this is an area where social dumping has occurred.
Mr President, today dockworkers have demonstrated against this measure outside this Parliament.
However, this directive offends not only against workers' expectations but also against the dock companies, which have invested heavily in facilities and infrastructure.
For this reason we voted against the measure at first reading.
If this Parliament truly represented the wishes of the people, it would throw this directive out, but it will not.
I believe that opening up to the market could be positive, not least as regards access to port services, but only under the conditions specified and introduced by Parliament's amendments: only provided that safety, professional qualifications, contractual and social rules and environmental protection are rigorously safeguarded where all the companies and all the kinds of services connected with aspects of the different port services are concerned.
I am not against self-handling in principle, but it must not become an excuse for promoting forms of social dumping and ways of economising on professional qualification or safety.
This applies to new ports too, in order to ensure the availability of private investments.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this afternoon we have seen that our directives do have some effect on the people of Europe.
More likely, however, because they are coming up against a cold, liberal Europe that subordinates safety, safety at work and health, social matters and jobs to blind liberalisation dogma.
They are also angry about the proposal you launched in February 2001, Commissioner, in which you pulled their social charter out from under their feet with one stroke of the pen.
It will come as no surprise to you that you are not very popular in Belgium, and I still regret that you did not have the courage to have a direct debate with the dock workers in Antwerp, for example.
They are, of course, striking because if you permit self-handling in another country, you must also permit self-handling in your own country straight away because of the sacred competition rules, and that is the reason why I continue to oppose it.
Mr President, people need to be reminded in this debate that ports, as hubs of intermodal transport, play a key role in European transport policy as a whole.
Mr President, the competition and race for profits that you wish to introduce into the administration of port facilities are already practised in maritime transport.
We reject the idea of having dock workers compete with one another on the basis of their status or origins, for that would be to the detriment of everyone.
This directive organises social competition between the European ports which will result in social dumping and also, in time, the destruction of the dock workers' charter as we know it in Belgium.
Allowing self-handling without a prior compulsory licence has other negative consequences, as has already been mentioned here: a lack of safety and problems with environmental disasters at sea.
My group and I are therefore voting against self-handling and in favour of the social protection of dock workers, and I hope that some socially aware fellow members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will follow suit.
As the directive now says, it is being left up to the Member States to decide whether or not to issue a licence.
In other words, the Member States and the port authorities are free to decide whether to operate an obligatory system of this kind or not.
What will happen is that one port will comply with the compulsory licensing rules and may impose strict conditions in terms of workers' qualifications, social conditions, safety, the economic development of the port and so on, and another port will not do so, which will ultimately distort mutual competition between the ports.
My amendment, and an amendment that was also tabled by other people, concerning the introduction of compulsory licensing was declared inadmissible in the parliamentary committee on the basis of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, Commissioner, this directive and this proposal have their own personality.
Some Members have tried to introduce proposals, but this has not been possible, which I believe is positive, because we must all respect everybody else's role.
This directive, with its proposal to open up the market, attempts to stimulate a mode of transport which is very positive in terms of its relationship with the environment.
We have already had experience of access to the market in relation to other means of transport and there have been no dramas or traumas; therefore, what there has been is an increase in their management capacity.
We are talking about increasing the number of workers in ports while making them more efficient.
Aviation is a mode of transport in which safety is vital and nobody can claim that its liberalisation reduces safety.
Mr President, Commissioner, free access to the port services market and equality of opportunities are requirements of the Union's Treaties and, in this regard, it is urgent that reliable information be available in order to regulate and monitor that no State provides aid to their ports, since this jeopardises free competition between the different Community ports.
Furthermore, pilotage, mooring services and stowage, given their status as obligatory services, must not be included in the Community Directive, but their regulation must remain in the hands of the respective port authorities, without prejudice to respect for European social conditions.
And, just as an airport would be in chaos if it had various air traffic control companies, in a port there must only be one pilotage service and one mooring service and self-handling must not be allowed, and would only be acceptable if it were carried out by regular seafaring crew who furthermore are duly qualified and have sufficient knowledge to ensure that safety is not jeopardised.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Jarzembowski, European industry needs efficient maritime transport.
That is something which the proposal for a directive on market access to port services, in the form in which it appears in the Council common position, is well placed to promote.
If adopted, quite a few of the changes now proposed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism at second reading, will, unfortunately, crucially undermine the directive's ability to contribute to just such more efficient maritime transport.
That particularly applies to the amendment to Article 4.9 whereby the provision that would give industry the option of self-handling using land-based personnel would disappear from the directive.
Mr President, the Commission has proposed to us a legal framework guaranteeing respect for competition rules and for economic freedoms in order to permit freedom of access to the market for port services.
That is why it is important for the text adopted to consider each particular port service in its own right.
At first reading, I tabled two amendments designed to exclude pilotage and mooring services from the scope of the directive.
In the interests of consistency with our vote at first reading and in order to allow pilots to continue contributing to environmental protection and to safety in Community ports, I therefore request a vote in favour of excluding pilotage services from the scope of the directive.
An opening up to competition would be slightly more acceptable to the relevant services if certain points in the directive, such as self-handling, were to be reworded.
But there are certain issues I would like to clarify because, having heard some things which have been said here, it appears that we are talking about different texts.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe in principle that the option of healthy competition is much better than a situation of monopoly.
Ladies and gentlemen, our air sector, as was said a moment ago, does not appear to have suffered as a result of introducing competition.
Here we are talking about also introducing competition into port services in large ports.
Furthermore, nobody is asking for a reduction in the safety elements.
We are allowing the port authorities to develop this aspect in accordance with their better knowledge of the situation in each European port.
We want more work for more activity in ports and furthermore with adequate social guarantees and conditions.
Because liberalisation and regulation in principle appear to be contradictory, but, nevertheless, in Europe we are capable of combining the two elements: the advantages of the market with the guarantees of a system of solidarity.
Article 9 states that self-handling is the situation in which port services can be provided for an undertaking or by an undertaking for itself using regular personnel, not temporary personnel or personnel employed for a specific task, but 'regular land-based personnel and/or seafaring crew'.
But, as well as regular personnel, I would point out that Article 13(2) states that the national employment and social rules will be obligatory and that social dumping cannot take place.
If we were to abide by your fears in relation to liberalisations, Ryanair or Virgin would not be operating, for example, and we would all be living with State monopolies, and I believe that more than one of you makes use of Ryanair and Virgin.
I understand that there has been a protest outside this Parliament.
The third element which you have insisted on once again is that of competition between ports.
With regard to Amendment No 10, let us find a solution which can clarify it further, within the limits and margins laid down in the Treaty, which we clearly cannot change by means of this text.
Finally, the issue of timeliness, mentioned by Mr Savary.
But in order to create European cabotage and for it to genuinely compete with other transport systems, that is land transport, we need efficient port services.
And that is what we intend, once again: to introduce competition into the large ports - I would insist - in a regulated manner, providing social and safety guarantees.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
WRITTEN DECLARATION (ARTICLE 120) I deeply regret the fact that the Council and Parliament have chosen not to hear the protests of the tens of thousands of workers who, throughout Europe, have risen up against this proposal for a directive and who are today demonstrating in Strasbourg.
The common position approved by the Council on access to the port services market warrants the following comments: 'Self-handling' will endanger employment as well as the social conditions of port workers, since it does not enshrine respect for the legislation and collective bargaining agreements in force in the Member States, it breaches ILO Convention No 137 on the stability of employment in the sector; on the stability of income gained from employing contracted workers in the sector and on the right of priority for gaining employment in ports, it breaches principles that are enshrined in Portugal's constitution, which require, at the very least, a prior sounding to be taken of organisations representing workers, it contradicts declared objectives increasing maritime safety, by allowing agencies from outside ports which do not, therefore, have a thorough understanding of their particular characteristics, to use nautical services and to handle cargo.
I trust that on Wednesday we will all support this directive.
However, we have shown a significant degree of flexibility in order to bring ourselves closer to the Council's position and this has taken the form of nine amendments.
Of all of them, I would like to highlight the one relating to the reasons for which a Member State can have different objectives to those in question and I would respectfully ask the Commission to verify compliance with this Article 4 of the directive.
Commissioner, I congratulate you on this second directive to promote alternative and renewable energies which respect the environment.
As for the Agriculture Directorate-General - what can I say? - it has recently presented a mid-term review of the common agricultural policy and this establishes aid for energy crops of EUR 45 per hectare, considerably lower than that for other crops and a more than insufficient maximum guaranteed area of one and a half million hectares for the whole of the European Union.
Meanwhile, in the United States, Brazil or South America biofuels are receiving decisive and coordinated support from those governments.
The objectives set in the directive are ambitious, but achievable.
The action plan proposed by the Commission sets an objective of 20% alternative fuels by 2020.
I would therefore ask this Parliament to support the approval of the report next Wednesday and I trust that the Council will reach an agreement as soon as possible on the directive on the taxation of energy.
An agreement on this proposal, without going to conciliation, would eliminate any possible final reservations of the members of the Council with regard to the Commission's proposals on tax relief for biofuels.
As you will know, this proposal now forms part of the framework directive on taxation in energy and I believe there has recently been really encouraging progress and we hope that the Council will soon adopt it and it will enter into force.
The Commission can accept all the amendments proposed, although I would like to comment on Amendment No 2 a little later.
We believe that this would send a very clear message to the industry with regard to the seriousness of our proposal on biofuels.
I recognise, however, that the procedure so carefully drawn up in the Council's Common Position, with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, provide a solid basis for action and may provide a system for reaching an agreement between the Council and Parliament.
For the first time, the States will have to establish objectives for biofuels.
These objectives will have to be based on the provisions of the directive; that is, 2% in 2005 and 5.75% in 2010, which represents an increase in the overall use of fuels in each of the countries.
It should be pointed out that the Commission, like Parliament, would have preferred the list of criteria to have been restricted to the points established in Amendment No 8.
The Commission is firmly convinced that any other criterion used by the States to justify different objectives must be equivalent to the those laid down in the directive.
Finally, I will mention Amendment No 2.
Recital 13 stresses the importance of the standardisation of fuels and proposes that the Commission and the standardisation bodies supervise and implement these standards in order to guarantee that biofuels gain the confidence of consumers and manufacturers.
Within this context, Amendment No 2 proposes stressing, in particular, volatility parameters.
We can therefore accept this amendment in principle but with this modification.
I would like once again to thank the rapporteur, all the members of the Committee and Parliament for your support and naturally I can assure you once again that, as you have requested, the Commission will ensure strict compliance with the provisions agreed for this Directive and I hope that the Council will shortly approve the taxation elements, which are essential if it is to have real content.
We are also hoping to improve our environment with better air quality and a reduction in greenhouse gases.
In the blending of biofuels into conventional transport fuel we can introduce these changes in a simple way that will not require vehicles or filling stations to be adapted.
Biofuels also promise to create new jobs in rural communities through crop production and in the construction and operation of processing plants.
It is good to know that in our efforts to do so we can usually count on the Commission's support.
At the first reading, Parliament came out in favour of binding targets for increasing the use of biofuels.
I very much hope that the Commission will scrutinise the reasons for departing from the indicative targets, which the Member States will have to provide, in a really very critical light.
I very much hope that the new European constitution will make such a situation impossible in the future.
We are now taking the first step in the right direction, although the use of biofuels must be promoted far more vigorously from here on in.
Parliament's position also took account of the different circumstances that exist in the Member States by making it possible to have temporary derogations.
Secondly, biofuels are a renewable energy source and therefore a much better option in terms of the environment than petroleum products.
Mr President, I support the action plan of the European Commission, which seeks to promote the greater use of alternative fuels in Europe between now and 2010.
Secondly, biofuels are environmentally friendly and they emit between 40 and 80% fewer greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
Biofuels are in many cases manufactured from organic waste.
We must do all in our power to bring about the greater use of biofuels.
It is not only the present generation which will benefit from these new changes, but also future generations.
Mr President, Commissioner, energy and the environment are two of the EU's most important challenges.
This is strongly linked to environmental work, but the transport sector is also important to economic development and the possibility of growth.
The 'right direction' means reducing the effect upon the environment.
The objective of sustainable development must be our prime concern, and we must act with a view to the long term.
Through the decision we take today, we must avoid making future technological development more difficult than necessary.
We should instead behave in such a way as to facilitate future leaps in technology without ignoring safety or sustainable development.
The timetable approved by the Council only contains two targets with binding dates.
They include cutting emissions, reducing our dependence on oil and above all creating more jobs in farming and rural areas.
We want to promote innovation in this sector.
The Germans were not the only ones who put the brakes on, but they also had every reason to adopt a rather more constructive attitude towards the Commission proposal and our position from the first reading.
I am trying to take measures so that this promise, this agreement, this commitment made by all the countries in this Parliament and in the Council, of 12% renewable energy, may genuinely be achieved.
In the transport sector there are very few measures we can take to reduce CO2 emissions, but this is one of them and, by supporting it, I hope that we can implement it quickly, in addition to the issue of taxes, which is essential if it is to really work.
The debate is closed.
Since the year 2000, the situation has dramatically worsened and the stocks are threatened with collapse.
We therefore tabled an improved recovery plan to our technical and scientific committee as an alternative to a moratorium.
I should like to stress, however, that this transitional plan is very positive because it already contains substantially reduced quotas, low fishing effort and improved monitoring mechanisms.
I am aware that this plan will have severe consequences for fishermen in the short term.
I can only urgently call on the Member States to take their responsibilities seriously and provide more funds in their programmes for measures of this kind.
On the other hand, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany have not programmed any measures of this kind at all.
These fora would moreover provide a place where scientists, fishermen and all of the other stakeholders, including the regional authorities, could do precisely what you call for in your motion, namely hold regular consultations.
We are literally asking our fishermen to burn their boats.
If we scrap another 20%, the fleet will fall below the critical mass needed to sustain jobs in our harbours, ports and processing factories.
In addition, the majority of the remaining vessels will be ones that, because they are under 10 years old, are not eligible for decommissioning subsidy.
These are the vessels on which the future of our whitefish fleet relies.
The skippers and crews, who have often mortgaged their homes to raise the cash to build these boats, will lose not only their jobs and boats but also their homes.
But Scotland is not the only country affected by these draconian measures.
This is why the Committee on Fisheries voted unanimously - at least with only one abstention - to support this emergency resolution, the crux of which calls upon the Commission to adopt less drastic measures for the long-term recovery of cod which would secure the maximum number of jobs in the EU whitefish sector.
The balance of EUR 102 million should be reprogrammed out of the FIFG for the 2004 budget and should be targeted towards golden handshakes to induce fishers and ancillary workers to leave the industry, early retirement grants and retraining aid, as mentioned by Commissioner Fischler.
One day last week in Scotland the entire whitefish fleet agreed to switch off its satellite tracking systems for 24 hours in silent protest at the catastrophe that has engulfed the communities involved.
These lights represent information beamed from the satellite-tracking systems.
Today we are talking about cod and all the white species, but tomorrow we may talk about others and I believe that the solidarity with the people affected is laudable - in this case with the Nordic fishermen and essentially with the countries mentioned here, as well as Scotland, and all the Members have worked together on this.
I have been pleased by the words of the Commissioner in support of these measures proposed in the committee and I would like, Mr President, on a personal basis and as a Galician, to say that, just as this House showed solidarity with Galicia in the case of the failure to reach an agreement with Morocco or following the Prestige accident, it is now the turn of the Nordic countries and the Scots and we will stand together and show mutual solidarity.
Mr President, in December 2002 the Fisheries Council agreed a compromise which effectively halved catches for the Scottish and UK whitefish fleets and stopped vessels going to sea for more than 15 days a month.
These are drastic measures but far short of the all-out moratorium recommended to the Commission by its scientific advisors on fish stocks, ISIS.
I also welcome the GBP 50 million compensation package approved by the Scottish Parliament last week and the related compensation packages in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Scottish and UK fishermen have joined fellow fishermen and civil servants from other EU countries at the European Commission's Fisheries Advisory Committee.
However, the negotiations on the long-term recovery plan will be tough.
Mr President, in supporting this motion I speak particularly of the need to give financial assistance, both to cushion the socio-economic effects of the measures that have been taken and to help the industry to survive until the stocks have recovered.
Of course assistance with restructuring can be given from within Member States.
I hope that the EU counts itself as such a democracy and that this principle will be fully expressed in the forthcoming vote.
However, I will concentrate my remarks tonight on the main and most important purpose of the resolution which accompanies this question, that is, the social and economic consequences arising from the decisions made at the December Fisheries Council.
I hope, therefore, that this House will unite in support of this resolution, calling for up to EUR 150 million of additional EU funding - and 'additional' is the important word here.
This amount would be in addition to Member States' commitments, constituting a fund to help offset the widest possible range of economic and social consequences that the European Union fisheries management decision will inflict.
Mr President, there must be no doubt at all about the objective of the harsh measures proposed by the Commission and endorsed by the Council concerning cod stocks in the North Sea.
The aim is, in fact, long-term restocking designed to preserve as many jobs as possible in the fishing communities that have been netting white fish for years and that are to be temporarily and fairly compensated and not required to diversify once and for all into other areas of activity.
The Canadians now recognise that fishing is just one factor among others in the development of cod stocks.
If we want our game plan to give us every chance of success, it is therefore vital quickly to define a framework in which it will be possible to collate local experience and scientific expertise on a permanent basis and not confine ourselves to banning fishing and keeping vessels in port, as if such measures alone were automatically going to result in restocking.
Mr President, it is very sad that we are having this debate tonight and that we need to give GBP 150 million in funding to help the fishing industry.
But we must now face up to the reality that cod stocks are low and that the families and communities involved in the fishing industry who need support should receive it.
I strongly support the resolution to provide GBP 150 million of additional funding.
One of the problems with funding of this type, as was found when it was used in Spanish waters, is that it is very difficult for the fishing boats, those tied up for the processing industry and others, to claim these funds.
If we offer people money and they cannot then obtain it, they will only end up more frustrated than they were before.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me to make it clear from the outset that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is very concerned about the socio-economic crisis within the white fish sector and that we are also in favour of providing financial compensation to those fishermen affected by necessary measures to save and conserve the cod stocks.
This crisis must not prevent us from taking necessary measures to conserve the white fish and cod stocks in the long term, and item 2 of the resolution is therefore very important.
In this, the European Parliament calls upon the Commission and the Council to ensure that changes to the measures taken to conserve cod stocks are made in such a way as not to lead to a further reduction in cod stocks but, rather, to maximise their chances of recovery.
The Greens have also tabled a new amendment in which we ask the Commission and the Council to take account of the fact that ISIS researchers believe that many cod stocks in EU waters are now down to a critically low level.
New test trawls on Sweden's west coast also show that cod stocks are at their lowest level for 23 years and that the number of one year-old fish of this species amounts to only a tenth of the number a year ago.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I first say as an aside that, with all due respect, you cannot blame the weather for everything.
In the end, we too have had our part to play in the fact that cod stocks are now at this catastrophic minimum level of one third, that is 50 000 tonnes.
No provision is made in the individual budget lines for disasters, however, which means that we are not prepared for them, either in the Member States or in the European Parliament.
Generous interpretation of the rules on flexibility and the reserve, as was still possible in the case of Morocco, is no longer an option.
It is primarily the Member States that are having to pick up the bill for the consequences of the Prestige disaster off the coast of Galicia and the 45% reduction in the catch quota for cod.
Their policy - the policy of the Member States - is also in need of reform.
At times like this a great deal of good will and assertiveness is needed in this House, particularly in the Committee on Budgets, but also in the Commission and crucially - as I have said - in the Member States.
Where I come from in Northern Ireland fishermen have already suffered severe setbacks and quotas and have cooperated in six-week closures during the spawning season, for the last three to four years.
That is why I believe that this proposal - which I support - gives hope to the people who live in these remote communities, where no other hope exists for them and no one seems to want to help.
On the one hand, there are measures that need to be taken to rescue cod and the recovery plan has to be based on these.
Considerably more fishermen will be faced with having to scrap their vessels because they will not be able to fish any more.
She is quite right to say that Scotland, or the United Kingdom, has made GBP 50 million available - that is pounds not euros - to ensure adequate funding for social measures.
Once again: if you demand more money here then this decision has to be made first and foremost, if not in full, by the budgetary authority.
Mr Fischler, in the light of all of these disasters - and I am sure that this will not be the last - should we not consider introducing something along the lines of a disaster fund - I cannot think what else to call it - of around a cent for every fish fin, so that we can actually offer help in those cases when it is really necessary?
You see, we also have to be able to give help spontaneously.
At the end of this debate, I have received a proposal for a resolution on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries.
The vote on this resolution will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
