President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we begin this debate, which is about procedural issues, we should firstly not forget the pleasing conclusions of the Convergence Reports published by the Commission and the European Central Bank on Cyprus and Malta.
The Presidency is delighted that the Commission was able to establish that Cyprus and Malta have reached a high level of durable convergence and that, on this basis, it has been able to table proposals for the euro to be introduced in these two countries.
At the meeting of the Economic and Financial Council on 5 June 2007, ministers endorsed the Commission's assessment that Cyprus and Malta meet the conditions for the euro to be introduced.
The Council received both Commission proposals for Council decisions on 21 and 22 May 2007, each in three language versions.
On 25 May the Council consulted the European Parliament on the two Commission proposals.
In its request for consultation, the Council referred to the fact that it would be helpful if the European Parliament could adopt its opinions on the Commission proposals at its plenary session from 18 to 21 June.
These opinions could then be made available to the Council, meeting at the level of Heads of State or Government, on 21 June 2007.
In principle, the Presidency supports the proposals made by President Barroso in his letter of 13 June 2007 in response to President Pöttering's letter.
The Presidency believes - as the Council President, Mrs Angela Merkel, explained in a letter to the President of the European Parliament on 19 June - that this matter primarily concerns the Commission and the European Parliament.
Tomorrow in Brussels, the European Council will debate the enlargement of the euro zone to these two countries and we all trust that on 10 July, following the positive agreement of the European Council tomorrow, Ecofin will take the final legal decision to enlarge the euro zone to these two countries.
Both this Parliament and the Ecofin Council of 5 June agree with the analysis of the Commission and the Central Bank with regard to Cyprus and Malta's compliance with the convergence criteria laid down in the Treaty.
At the meeting held with the coordinators of Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 7 June, I had the opportunity to explain to you that we in the Commission have been provided with full and reliable information on these two countries for the purposes of drawing up the convergence reports.
With regard to Malta, the Commission issued an opinion on the criterion on the sustainability of public finances, conditional upon the Ecofin Council's approval of the abrogation of the excessive deficit procedure which had been opened up for this country in 2004 and the Ecofin of 5 June has confirmed this point, bringing an end to the excessive deficit procedure with regard to Malta.
Under these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, we are able to predict that on 1 January 2008 the euro zone will have fifteen Member States with the accession of Cyprus and Malta.
Two years later, in 2000, Greece's request was analysed and it was agreed that Greece could join the euro zone from 1 January 2001.
It is a club that is entirely open to all members that wish to join it and which are prepared and fulfil the conditions for reaching that stage.
In view of the enormous legal, economic, fiscal, accounting and practical implications of changing currency it would be extremely unwise to consider a date other than 1 January to adopt the euro and I believe that there is general agreement amongst everybody on that.
The date on which the Commission must adopt the convergence report is determined, firstly, by when the Member State presents its request - the Commission cannot decide when a Member State is to present that request - and, secondly, by when the Commission has the reliable and rigorous data that it needs in order to carry out an appropriate, rigorous and accurate assessment of whether or not the convergence criteria have been fulfilled.
In 1998 and 2000, the Commission generally adopted the convergence reports at the beginning of May.
In 2006 and 2007, the approval took place in the middle of May because, since 2005, the time limit for the Member States to communicate the data on their budgetary situation has been put back by a month, from 1 March to 1 April.
Under these circumstances, if we bear in mind that Cyprus and Malta fulfilled the exchange rate stability criterion on 2 May of this year, the Commission has had two weeks, as happened last year in the case of Slovenia, to draw up and adopt the convergence reports.
The point I wish to make through this perhaps overly detailed explanation, is that all of the institutions have tight deadlines within which to take decisions in this procedure.
The time limit available to Parliament is determined, on the one hand, by the approval of the convergence report by the Commission and the Central Bank, but also, on the other, by the dates decided upon by the Council for its decision-making procedure, both in the European Council and in the meeting of the Ecofin Council, and that is clearly not in the hands of the Commission.
I am glad that we can support an enlargement from 13 to 15 participating countries.
In February, Malta and Cyprus requested a Convergence Report pursuant to Article 121 with the aim of obtaining membership.
This was also discussed on 3 May.
On Monday, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs voted in favour of the accession of both States by a large majority, almost unanimously - for Malta with 39 votes in favour and for Cyprus with 38 votes in favour and one abstention.
on behalf of PPE-DE. - (MT) Mr President, I cannot begin without first expressing my appreciation towards the Maltese and Gozitan population for the great strides they have managed to take in these three years since Malta became a member of the European Union.
This transition will strengthen the country's economy and, in turn, competitiveness.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that, on 1 January 2008, the eurozone will have two new members, namely Cyprus and Malta.
Expanding the eurozone is an important process which fosters deeper integration in the European Union.
I welcome the open and constructive position that President Barroso and Commissioner Almunia have just declared, on behalf of the Commission.
Thirdly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the definition of stability applied by the Commission and the European Central Bank in convergence reports is different to the definition of price stability used by the European Central Bank in the field of monetary policy.
The convergence criteria were drawn up 16 years ago, in entirely different circumstances.
I would nonetheless express a favourable opinion on the adoption by Cyprus and Malta of the single currency, since the convergence criteria have been met.
Until March 2007 Malta's average long-term interest rate was at 4.3%, which is below the reference value of 6.4%.
Since its entry into ERM II, the European exchange rate mechanism, the Cypriot pound has been exchanged in a stable manner at a satisfactory exchange rate.
In the last 12 months the average long-term interest rate has been 4.2%, which is below the reference value of 6.4%.
The Cypriot economy is highly integrated into the European Union's economy.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, by taking the floor in the debate on expanding the eurozone to include Cyprus and Malta, I would like to draw your attention to the following issues.
First of all, the Commission is once again reminding us of the need for the new Member States to meet all the Maastricht criteria before joining the eurozone.
In 2006, public debt in the countries of the old European Union was as high as 63.3% of GDP and, in as many as half of the eurozone countries this debt exceeded 60% of GDP.
In 2006, Cyprus' public debt amounted to as much as 65.3% and Malta's debt stood at 66.5% of GDP.
This event is, however, tinged with sadness and I should like to explain why: unfortunately, in Cyprus an opportunity has been missed to involve both parts of Cyprus in the euro zone and to blaze the trail for a reunification of the island of Cyprus on the basis of a bicommunal and bizonal solution.
Thus, everything that needs to be done by 1 January 2008 on the part of Cyprus for full economy integration and convergence will have to be done and you can be sure that it will be done.
The issue of the euro is no small matter for our fellow citizens: it is, in their hands, one of the European Union's most valuable assets.
That is the spirit of the letter that our President sent to the Presidents of the other two institutions.
For this reason, the citizens I represent as a Cypriot MEP rejoice at the decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to approve the Commission's proposal to proceed with the adoption of the euro by Cyprus on 1 January 2008.
I of course note with regret that paragraph 7b of the report's explanatory statement somewhat erroneously states that the Cypriot Government has infringed the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 501/2004 of 10 March 2004 on providing Eurostat with full information on quarterly accounts for general government.
In conclusion, I call on all my colleagues to support this report and I take this opportunity to extend an invitation to you all to visit Cyprus in 2008, to enjoy Cypriot hospitality and to spend your euros freely in the sun. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will confine my remarks today to the procedure and will not comment on the many other points that have been addressed.
This was clearly proven by the economic and social shock that hit our country yesterday, when 570 persons lost their job in one day, due to the closing down of the VF factory.
We did not want to burden the accession of these two countries with the issue of the future procedure, but I hope that we can come to an agreement with the Commission and the Council today to ensure that, in future, there is a better procedure and a more serious opportunity for Parliament to give its opinion on this issue.
I believe that this demonstrates once again that the euro zone is not a closed club and that joining the euro is not just an obligation for the Member States, but an excellent opportunity for those who wish to share the single currency with 318 million other Europeans and for the countries that already belong to the Economic and Monetary Union.
I must say that the abrogation of the excessive deficit procedure for Malta, which took place at the last Ecofin Council on the proposal of the Commission, is a necessary condition in order for Malta to fulfil the Maastricht criterion on this point and the Commission's convergence report of 16 May said that, if the Ecofin Council approved the abrogation of the excessive deficit procedure, Malta would comply.
We have done that in order not to delay the convergence report, because if not we would have had to wait until 5 June in order to publish the convergence report and you would have had even less time to debate it.
So to the figures: Cyprus and Malta's deficit and debt figures notified within the context of the excessive deficit notification procedures that take place twice a year, on 1 April and 1 October, are as reliable - having been analysed by Eurostat, which published its opinion on 23 April - as those of the other Member States.
Eurostat has no reservations regarding the deficit and debt figures notified.
If Parliament wants to support the work of Eurostat, the honourable Members know that I, as the Commissioner responsible for Eurostat, am always grateful for Parliament's support of the Commission and of Eurostat, but I do not wish there to be any doubt about the validity and the quality of the figures on the basis of which we are assessing whether Cyprus and Malta fulfil the convergence criteria.
But what you cannot ask of the Commission is that it take the view that a country has definitively fulfilled the deficit criterion when the Council has not yet abrogated the excessive deficit procedure.
We are not therefore going to be able to anticipate, and nor is the Ecofin Council, the decisions on abrogation of the excessive deficit procedure for Slovakia before the time of year that Malta's excessive deficit procedure has been abrogated.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council must therefore talk and agree on a way in which we can work rigorously, coherently and cooperatively in order to come to correct decisions that enable all of us to work rigorously and take decisions at the appropriate time so that the citizens of the next countries to join the 13 current members of the euro zone do not suffer the consequences of a belated decision and of a lack of preparation for the introduction of euro notes and coins.
I would repeat, however, that these statistics are not relevant in terms of assessing whether or not a country fulfils the convergence criteria.
Those statistics, however, which are incomplete and deficient in the case of Cyprus and Malta, are not the statistics which we have used and which we must use in order to assess the convergence criteria.
You, Mr Langen, and all of the honourable Members, know that these revisions have taken place and you know that the figures that we are using thanks to the work of Eurostat and of the Commission, work that has improved considerably over the last three years, are now more realistic and more in tune with reality.
I should like to ask Mr Gloser if he is willing to commit himself, on behalf of the Council and in the spirit of Mr Barroso's reply to Mr Poettering, to sitting round a table with us in order to reach an agreement on a common timetable for all three institutions when the time comes to consider a new request for accession to the euro area.
The debate is closed.
