Despite all the changes on paper in Turkey and the decision in favour of departments to set civil society free, it appears that implementation of the reforms has been extremely difficult.
I see this as an important move on its part, because to us, it is mainly the implementation of all those changes that is essential.
The structure and philosophy of the state are reflected in the mentality of the population and government officials.
The European Union has to be strict in respect of all candidates, or states that want to become candidates, where the rule of law and democracy are concerned.
That is, primarily, a matter of principle, but it is also about the EU's ability to function as such and about our ability to persuade our own people, whose acceptance of this enlargement will be dependent on our finding a basis for it.
What matters is that the candidates should fit in with the European Union in terms of the political values they uphold.
For example, it is not simply about the release of Leyla Zana, who has been sentenced to many years' imprisonment for conduct for which she received the Sakharov Prize from this Parliament.
A real separation of church and state should not give cause to panic, and neither should the freedom of religion for groups who are not specifically mentioned in the Treaty of Lausanne.
Historically, one can appreciate that the army has enjoyed great trust among a large proportion of the population, but politics will need to regain its self-assurance.
The Copenhagen political criteria must be fulfilled before we can move on to the usual support we offer with regard to the adoption of the .
Moreover, it should also send a message to countries that are considering membership.
While it is understandable that some amendments should call for the close involvement of Parliament, it is just as necessary for us to do our homework in order to be able to assimilate the accession of countries to the European Union.
I hope that by accepting the outlines of this report, we will send a clear message to both the Turkish Government and society and to the citizens of the EU.
I think we may conclude, on the basis of the results from Turkey’s latest elections last Sunday, that this drive towards reform has put down deep roots in Turkish society.
This is something in which we should rejoice, for without the European Union, this process would not have got off the ground.
The Helsinki strategy gave Turkey definite prospects.
That has made for a lack of ambiguity in our relations with Turkey, and the accession partnerships that we have developed as instruments of cooperation have proved their worth remarkably well in the endeavour to advance the reform process.
Turkey has also signed several core international conventions, and this clearly indicates that the country is on course for change, as is also shown, above all, by the change in its political climate.
The reform process has given public debate in Turkey a new mood of openness and freedom.
When, four years ago, I started working with Turkey, I could not even use the word ‘Kurdish’ in my dialogues with the Turkish Government.
Let me briefly list the areas to which the Commission referred: the need to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and improve their working practices, the need for an overall framework for the exercise of fundamental rights, which must be clarified in such a way that every relic of the authoritarianism inherited from the past is done away with.
Although there has been noticeable progress recently, I have to say that we are constantly receiving reports that demonstrate that the reform process is being only reluctantly accepted in the Turkish corridors of power, and so I urgently appeal to the Turkish Government to do everything possible to get these reforms implemented.
This leads me to mention the case of Leyla Zana, which is an example of how the spirit of reform has not yet been internalised by all the country’s executive and legislative institutions.
The choice is not between one plan and another; it is between this plan and no solution at all.
It will be a country with structures strong enough to implement Community law, and one founded upon the same principles as the European Union.
If it is decided that it does, then – as was unanimously decided at the European Council in Copenhagen in December 2002 – negotiations on its accession are to be commenced without delay.
On this, the Commission will present its report in the autumn, and, like all its predecessors, this report will be fair and objective.
The European Parliament has always played an important part in reminding Turkey of its commitments, as a democratic state, to safeguard fundamental rights and freedoms.
These criteria, far from being devised for Turkey, apply generally and in the same way to all the candidates there have been to date, and to all that there will be.
I can assure you that the Commission will, in its autumn report, and just as we have done in past years, put forward a thorough, objective and fair analysis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Turkish Government has moved at astonishing speed to fulfil the European Union's political criteria so that the right decision can be taken in December for accession negotiations to be opened.
We should recognise this and congratulate the Turkish authorities.
In a very difficult international situation and in spite of terrorist atrocities in Istanbul, there has been a firm commitment to domestic change.
Yet some might think that every time Turkey makes progress in a particular direction, the goalposts for European Union membership are moved.
In its report a year ago, Parliament sent out an unduly negative message to Turkey and failed to recognise the scale of positive developments that had taken place in the preceding 12 months.
This year's report is more balanced, but it still sends a lukewarm message.
A number of the amendments tabled seek to reverse the decisions firstly of the 1997 Luxembourg European Council confirming that Turkey will be judged on the basis of the same criteria as the other applicant states, and secondly of the Helsinki European Council in 1999, which recognised Turkey's status as a fully-fledged candidate country.
I hope, however, that by that time and by the time many of the young people in the public gallery here – including young people from St Martin's School in Brentwood, in my constituency – are firmly established in their professions, the European Union itself will have moved away from its obsession with political integration, into a somewhat looser community of nation states.
Finally, there is much to be done to bring about reform in Turkey, in particular in terms of human rights.
This has obviously had a knock-on effect on the people's social situation and their prosperity.
The general level of prosperity in Turkey, expressed in purchasing power, is under 23% of the EU's level.
Unemployment has increased and fluctuates between 9% and 10%.
The level of employment is lower than 50%, while this is above 60% in the European Union, although we endeavour to achieve 70%.
According to Eurostat, a quarter of the Turkish population has an income below 60% of the average.
The level of poverty therefore remains high and the indices for the social situation are thus not terrific.
I support Turkey's application to join the European Union on the conditions that were agreed in Copenhagen.
That can be sorted out, but there is still a need for great effort in order to do so.
Pressure of time will not get these issues dealt with more quickly.
In 2000, for example, a new agricultural policy was introduced, making it easier for Turkey to move closer to the European Union in this area.
I should like to say that agriculture is probably not the greatest problem where Turkey is concerned.
It is important that we are all agreed that, once the Copenhagen criteria have been met, everything will be in place.
We, however, regard such structures as indispensable; we need them in order to be able to ensure the proper and comprehensible distribution of EU funds for regional support or cohesion policy.
The Turks cannot be serious in constantly asking for more money when the administration is not in a position to disburse these funds in a proper and transparent manner.
Everywhere, there are still shocking deficiencies: in safety and air traffic control, on the railways, in the maritime sector, and in road transport.
That is as unworthy of a candidate for accession as it is of any other country in the world, but the situation is particularly intolerable in the case of a candidate for accession to the European Union.
All forms of violence, especially domestic violence, and the lack of legal and psychological support mechanisms for victims are still a specific problem.
Finally, we call for the immediate release of the former member of parliament and Sakharov prizewinner, Leyla Zana, who has been in prison together with three other members of parliament since 1994 on purely political grounds.
Today, we need to take advantage of today's debate to send a very strong message to Turkey and to call for the immediate release of Leyla Zana as a tiny sign that Turkey is at last moving towards Europe.
Both points of view have to be taken fully into consideration, and no external pressure can or should be allowed to change them.
Secondly, it is a fundamental requirement of accession that freedom of religion be established, so that all religions, which only function as religious communities, have the freedom and genuine right to found and build proper churches, just as the EU countries gladly allow non-European religions to do by way of tradition.
We should congratulate Commissioner Verheugen here, as well as Kofi Annan and the other negotiators, on the fact that the Cyprus problem, which now is even a legal barrier to Turkish accession at present, is being solved.
It is a fact that there are those in this House who believe that Turkey should not be a candidate country.
I take the view that Turkey should remain the candidate country that it already is.
I, though, believe that there are very good reasons why it should remain one, and there are very many good reasons for Europe to insist on the reforms not only being continued but also implemented.
I ask that the Commission, in its report to the Council – which will take the decision and with which the power to do so must remain – should not limit itself to merely assessing what has been decided, but should also consider what has been implemented.
I know that Commissioner Verheugen will do that.
So let me reiterate my belief that we should hold fast to our position and rigorously scrutinise compliance with the criteria, just as we do with all the other countries.
While I hope that a solution will be found, and am very grateful to Commissioner Verheugen for his efforts, it must be clear to us that it must be a solution that does justice to both Cyprus and Europe, so that the European Union will be joined by a country that is capable of participating actively in its decision-making. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party warmly welcomes the plan crafted by Kofi Annan yesterday in Switzerland.
These events and our gratitude are not fully reflected in the Oostlander report, but it will certainly inform Parliament's decision, as we move towards December and the critical decision to open accession negotiations.
Many things will change between now and December: inside the Union we will have reached an IGC settlement that will fully prepare us for further accessions; in Turkey the AKP administration will have consolidated its legitimacy and a new reform package will have progressed through Parliament; social and economic circumstances will have improved and advances will hopefully have been made in the practical implementation of reforms; and Turkey will have continued improving its relations with its neighbours.
The quiet Turkish revolution will persist, and we in the Liberal family will see the bigger picture and treat Turkey fairly and recognise what a contribution Turkey can make to the future of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, it is indeed the case that, in December 2004, the European Union will have to set a date for the opening of negotiations with Turkey on its future accession.
This is certainly a highly significant step.
I must say, on behalf of the majority of my group, that Turkey should take its place as a full member of the European Union.
The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy also endorses this analysis, having incorporated amendments tabled by our group, particularly those concerning Leyla Zana, the Kurdish question and the recognition of the genocide committed against the Armenians.
The appeal process that we helped to initiate is being conducted in appalling conditions, as the European Parliament delegation, on which Feleknas Uca and Luigi Vinci represent my group, has observed at every hearing.
Leyla Zana and her colleagues even refused to take part in the twelfth hearing in protest against these new proceedings in which their fate is a foregone conclusion.
The Kurdish HADEP party has been banned, and the DEHAP party is under similar threat.
Torture and maltreatment are still rife, particularly in police stations and prisons.
Lastly, all of these factors prompted our colleague from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to write in his report, and I quote: ‘Meeting the political criteria of Copenhagen is a precondition for opening accession negotiations’.
For the majority of my group, the democratisation of the Turkish institutions, genuine respect for fundamental rights, recognition of the rights of the Kurdish people, the release of Leyla Zana and the resolution of the Cypriot question are fundamental criteria which must be met if we are to approve the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have now reached the point in the debate on Turkey on which there is, fortunately, general unanimity about the remaining issues.
First of all, let us consider paragraph 8, according to which Turkey's current position in relation to the Cyprus conflict reflects the political power of the army.
The main problem of the Oostlander report, however, lies in paragraph 7.
The rapporteur has recognised, or perhaps had to recognise, that, if the current reforms take place, the Member States will inevitably decide in December to start the negotiations.
Does Parliament think, and does, for example, the Group of the Party of the European Socialists really believe, that we should enter negotiations with Turkey with one arm tied behind our backs, because there are 31 chapters of the that we are not allowed to discuss?
The second question is, in some respects, the converse of the first, and concerns Turkey’s political will to press forward whole-heartedly with the necessary reforms of its structures and its institutional and legal framework in order to comply with the Copenhagen political criteria, much as has occurred in the other candidate countries.
We are aware of the difficulties and the special conditions involved in this kind of process and can conclude that things are taking their course.
In conclusion, the stage we have now reached should thus be understood as one of mutual preparation for the possible accession of Turkey to the European Union; preparation by the Union, which has to adapt at all levels in order to welcome in the great Turkish nation; and preparation by Turkey, which must continue its efforts to effectively implement the necessary reforms in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria.
Mr&#160;Oostlander also mentions state control over the main religion and discrimination against others.
The human rights situation remains precarious, despite the reforms, which are mostly in place only on paper and are not being put into practice.
This attitude sums up perfectly all the things that are going wrong with the European Union.
An appeal is made for including a non-European and Islamic country in the European Union, without holding a fundamental discussion on this.
We want to include a country that, in 15 years' time, will be the largest Member State in terms of population and in terms of surface area.
In other words, fundamental decisions are being taken without reference to Europe’s citizens.
What it comes down to is that Turkey is not a European country and, as such, does not belong in the European Union.
Nobody has ever had the courage to say this to the Turks, but one day we will have to.
Turkey can, and has to, be helped as a friendly country, but that can be done perfectly well with an association agreement and in the framework of the Policy of Good Neighbourliness. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I believe it to be extraordinarily important that Turkey will be closely associated with us.
It is, secondly, very much in our own interests that Turkey should become democratic and be under the rule of law, and that we should support developments towards this end.
Looking at the region as a whole, Turkey is the country with the most highly developed democracy and rule of law.
It is something we will have to examine in the autumn, in exactly the same way, for example, as we will have to examine – as the German Foreign Minister has said – whether Turkey can be regarded as a safe third country for the purposes of the asylum procedure, as Germany accepts more asylum seekers from Turkey than from any other country.
Let me add, though, that there are only a few of them; they are not all those who are in favour of Turkey’s accession, and I do believe that it is not only because of Turkey, but also because of other countries in Europe, that we need options for our relationships with countries that are not full Member States, including a new European Economic Area.
I hope you will understand that this must be my last contribution, and that I must then comply with your President’s request.
Whatever we think about Turkey, there is one thing on which we must agree, and that is that it is in our fundamental interests that Turkey should become democratic, subject to the rule of law and stable, that it should become a steadfast and reliable partner for the European Union.
That is true in any case, and that is why the reform process must continue.
I get the impression that what now counts most of all, in fact, is to persuade the Greek Cypriot community that the plan that has been devised, the latest plan to be on the table – and there will not be another – is in their interests too.
We do not agree with this; we want a Turkey which can of course be Muslim and will be, but it must be democratic and pacifist, at least towards its partners in the European Union.
Nor is Turkey's stance in Cyprus encouraging and I greatly fear that neither the Secretary General's plan nor the stance of the European Commission are encouraging, because they cannot accept a massive military presence, which is equivalent to the military occupation of part of Cyprus, 18 years after the entry of Cyprus to the European Union, and probably even after the admittance of Turkey to the European Union.
I hope and I am in favour of the Greek side's accepting the plan in question, but we must realise that we are asking the Greek side to build a democracy on something which is fundamentally anti-democratic, as the Annan plan is in its present state.
I hope that we manage this for the good of Cyprus and the European Union, but we need to know what we are asking for.
I am not saying that he is representative of all of public opinion or of the government; but this shows that there is resistance by one part of public opinion at least to certain fundamental changes and they must be taken into account, because the integration of Turkey into the European Union can only come about as and when the attitude within Turkey changes.
Progress has been made in Turkey, but there remain many shortcomings, above all with regard to the role of the military and respect for the minorities living in that country.
The report even finds that the present government is acutely keen to make revolutionary reforms in all sectors.
The gaols are full of thousands of political prisoners, including Leyla Zana and three members of parliament of Kurdish extraction who, after ten years in prison, are to undergo another fixed trial.
The Dehap is threatened with a new ban, while its leaders are being tried and defenders of human rights are being persecuted and murdered.
Grass-roots movements campaigning for peace, democracy and workers' rights are being hounded and the army continues to rule in the political and social life of the country.
As far as the Cyprus problem is concerned, the report considers it constructive that Turkey aims to safeguard as the results of the barbaric invasion and occupation, about which the report says not a word.
On the contrary, it supports the Annan plan which, in essence, tramples over the UN resolutions and international law in general, legalising the results of the invasion and occupation.
The report is driven by a spirit of imposing the sovereignty of the European Union in all sectors and a spirit of serving its big business.
Whilst seeking to observe elections in the primary school of Vali Unal Erkan in Diyarbakir, we were shouted at, threateningly, by the local chief of police and prevented from entering the polling station.
This seems to me rather like begging the question.
If Turkey were thoroughly democratised, as the EU wishes, the people would, unfortunately, without doubt take a democratic decision to introduce an Islamic state without democracy.
It is not that we are opposed in principle to these countries’ accession, but my group and I, the French delegation to the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities, have been expressing our opposition to an unrealistic integration timetable and to the immediate accession of countries which, like ourselves, are not ready for such a leap into the unknown.
Our position on Turkish accession is quite different.
As General de Gaulle remarked, there is no getting away from the facts.
The fact is that, under Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, any applicant for membership of the European Union must be a European State.
After years of procrastination on the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey, the vote on this report is an opportunity to send out a strong political signal.
That is precisely what we are thinking of when we talk about Turkey.
I would urge the Commission – or the remnant of it that is still there, as it is currently breaking up – when it puts together its report for presentation to the Heads of State or Government in the autumn, to give in-depth attention to the question of whether or not the political criteria have been fulfilled.
If the Heads of State or Government think they can take fundamental decisions of this kind without reference to the European people, then they deceive themselves.
They are deluded if they think it would end up all happening automatically, that Parliament and the people would go along with it – for some Member States will hold referendums on whether or not to ratify it.
What this House has, here and now, is, I think, a great opportunity to give thought to this, and to send the peoples of the European Union the message that, while we are very serious about the concerns and expectations of people in Turkey and in our other neighbouring countries where this European Union of ours is concerned, we do have options open to us other than merely discussing full membership, and we should now explore them together. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Turkey is an important subject on which opinions are very much divided.
After numerous discussion sessions and amendments in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the resolution proposed by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Oostlander, seems to me to be well enough balanced to be voted through.
I shall vote in favour of it – provided, of course, that this balance is not upset by the adoption in plenary of new amendments that are unduly harsh on Turkey.
People’s mindsets, of course, have to be changed too, and that is never easy; in fact, it is the most difficult task of all.
In short, the ongoing reform process has already been of great value in drawing us closer to Turkey and in forging increasingly firm bonds of mutual trust between Turkey and ourselves.
Our future, and particularly our security in the wider sense of the term, depends to a great extent on good relations with the great country of Turkey.
The European Council decided in Helsinki in 1999 that Turkey is a candidate country.
That decision is still in force and, therefore, Turkey is to be treated as a candidate country in line with all the other candidate countries.
There is no doubt that it is precisely the EU's demands that have contributed significantly to the democratic progress that has taken place in Turkey, and a signal from the European Parliament that Turkey cannot become a member of the EU, or that Turkey must be given special status would undoubtedly put a stop to this positive development.
This is something we owe to our Turkish neighbours, and we must tell the Turks that they are well on the way and that they should continue along the path upon which they have embarked, for the benefit of Turkey, the EU and stability and growth in our part of the world. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to take the opportunity to draw attention to the Turkish human rights organisation, HRFT.
Last weekend, the president of the HRFT, Yavuz Önen, received an award at the national congress of the June Movement for his and the organisation's courageous struggle for human rights in Turkey.
The HRFT is threatened with closure as a result of several court cases against members of its leadership, including Yavuz Önen.
The HRFT has five centres for the rehabilitation of torture victims, and a thousand active volunteers.
I call upon Parliament and the Commission carefully to monitor the ability of the Turkish human rights organisation to carry out its very necessary work for human rights in Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the Oostlander report wisely concludes that Turkey is not ready to join the European Union because, and I quote, ‘Turkey does not yet meet the Copenhagen political criteria’.
To tell the truth, when we read the report in detail, it contains precious few points that might honestly be regarded as arguments in favour of accession other than references to the meritorious efforts of the Turkish Government, and even these are by no means sure to have any genuinely profound social impact.
The values of Turkish society are still far removed from those of the European Union in numerous fundamental areas, such as relations between the state and religious communities, as detailed in paragraphs 32 and 33 of the Oostlander report, which I would urge everyone to think about.
We can always hope, of course, for more rapid constitutional development in Turkey towards democracy, pluralism, public freedoms and the dismantling of the parallel military state.
Accordingly, ladies and gentlemen, it would be irresponsible of us to offer Turkey anything but a privileged partnership designed to support its development without leading the EU down a dangerous path.
I welcome, as others have, his belief that a clear objective assessment should be made on the basis of the Copenhagen criteria.
We believe, therefore, that there should be a fundamental assessment of the institutional capacity of the Union to absorb Turkey and that this should be part of the Commission's report in October.
So we should have the courage to look at the situation in a very clear and reasonable manner.
Therefore, with 25 Member States from 1 May, 21 languages, no post-2006 financial perspective in view until 2005 at the earliest, and doubts about whether a Constitutional Treaty will be agreed and ratified, the most sensible thing would be to say that there is real uncertainty in the Union's current political situation, and to be extremely cautious before giving Turkey the green light at this stage. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Helmut Kohl was recently asked on German television what he thought about the accession of Turkey.
As Turkey has been promised accession for 40 years, anything else would only unsettle the people on the Bosphorus and the overall political climate in Europe as well.
The Turks must demonstrate compliance with the Copenhagen criteria.
Many, if not all, speeches have underlined the fundamental problem, which is that of the respect for human rights and principles of freedom on which our Union is founded.
The question is, does Turkey fulfil the requirements from this point of view?
This seems more typical of Turkish style democracy than that of a country that is undoubtedly democratic and was a founding member of the European Union.
Being against ‘thieving Rome’ means being against centralism and being against those who oppress our freedom.
It is with these things in mind that the debate on Turkish accession must be conducted.
I do not suppose that anyone in this House is unaware of Turkey’s geopolitical significance, or does not welcome its steps towards democracy and human rights.
That is why my delegation and I endorse all the motions aimed at securing a broader basis for this debate.
There is no reason why the Commission should not produce a study on the effects of Turkish accession on the European Union, whether as part of the report that is due in October or as a separate study.
What this report on Turkey now presents us with, though, is the opportunity to send an important political signal and to put the debate on a broader basis.
The EU is now more demanding and involved, and enlargement is not a machine or an animal: it is the most complex human creation of all – the European Union.
The point I should like to pick up, Mr Oostlander, is that of secularism.
After two decades of absolute standstill, Turkey has at last got down to the task of changing its laws.
As it progresses towards more democracy and more human rights, that can surely be seen in a positive light.
Even though the Turkish Prime Minister has announced his intention of amending another 15 to 20 paragraphs of the constitution in April and May, these changes take no account as yet of important demands made by the European Parliament, for such things as freedom of religion and the repeal of the 10% clause in order to protect political minorities.
We have therefore tabled motions highlighting the possibility of an alternative to deciding in favour of or against full membership, that alternative being a privileged partnership.
The next Parliament to be elected – which will sit from 2004 and 2009 – must possess in full the prerogative of saying ‘yes’ or ‘no’ and of devising alternatives.
I therefore ask the Members of this House to treat the amendments we have introduced on this subject as the dignity of this Parliament and of our position require.
The Turks must bear in mind that the criteria cover not only the Cyprus issue, but also the question of whether the European Union is itself in a position to welcome their country into membership.
We cannot allow ourselves to get involved in a risky undertaking that would test to the utmost the EU’s political and economic capacity to act. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I would like to thank, very warmly and most sincerely, all those Members of this House who have spoken, most of whom make the same speech in every debate on Turkey, in order to make it plain that they do not want Turkey or Turks in the European Union.
I am grateful for five years of cooperation and for your having tolerated me, a Turk, in this House.
Others may take pride in bravely defending the Christian EU against the Turks, and may perhaps find some voters to support them, but I am ashamed; such is not my European Union. &#160;&#160; Madam President, both the Commission's latest interim report and the opinions of the different committees of this Parliament demonstrate that Turkey has made important steps in the direction of the Copenhagen criteria.
Fortunately, reality is different.
Here too, the Commission and the Council should exercise greater imagination, rather than simply pointing out that the way is, in any case, already mapped out. &#160;&#160; Madam President, what have we been able to observe since 1963?
It is hard to see how a country that will not face up to its history and its errors can join the European Union.
There are two pre-eminent problems, and the first of them is Turkey’s economic boycott of Armenia.
This also constitutes a grave breach of the Balladur Principles, which apply to all present and future candidates for accession, and according to which EU Member States must not be engaged in border disputes with neighbouring states, but must, on the contrary, maintain good relations with them.
It is not only we, in the ivory towers of Brussels and Strasbourg, who are concerned about this problem; the ordinary citizens in Europe are too, and we must therefore be absolutely certain that we will be taking the right decision when the time comes.
I have heard Commissioner Verheugen use the term ‘zero tolerance’, and I find it an appealing one.
In short, the setting of a date for negotiations in December is not yet a . &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to draw attention to something which I believe to be extremely important.
Nevertheless, the reality is that, over the last two and a half years, nobody could have imagined the changes Turkey is implementing in order to come closer to Europe.
Apart from the first revolution in the thirties, which changed the language and created a secular country – if only all the Arab countries had this view of a State in which civil power is separated from religious power – in the face of the increasingly powerful theocracies we have in the Islamic world, it seems incredible that we do not understand that this is a great experiment in democracy.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I beg leave to speak under Rule 146 of our Rules of Procedure.
I am making this request because yesterday in this House Commissioner Vitorino announced two substantial amendments to the initiative, which I believe should be subject to further analysis in committee and, furthermore, this is laid down as an ordinary procedure in the Rule I have mentioned. &#160;&#160; .
I am against a referral and I would like to ask you to allow the vote on the legislative proposal. &#160;&#160; The Council is not present and we cannot, therefore, hear its opinion.
The proof is that national administrations can establish national management plans and these plans may allow derogations from certain common provisions precisely because of the different situations in different parts of the Mediterranean.
The sector has been consulted on several occasions before and after we presented our proposal.
Therefore it is appropriate that it is probably the most important report for fishermen in the last five years.
On the other hand, I am opposed to Mr&#160;Deva’s Amendment No 2 to paragraph 39, because it would allow the backlog of eleven billion euros that we owe to the ACP countries from the last three EDFs to vanish without trace.
This regulation is part of a package of regulations that aims at strengthening mutual assistance by the competent authorities of the Member States, in this case in the field of excise duties, in which tobacco smuggling is particularly significant.
The idea of decentralised cooperation is therefore a good solution. &#160;&#160; .– The European Parliament’s position on the initiative regarding migratory fish stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean merits my full agreement.
By acceding to this convention, the European Union can play an active role in the regional fisheries organisations (RFOs), the most appropriate multilateral instrument for the effective conservation and management of fish stocks and for combating illicit fishing.
I support Parliament in urging the European Union to become a member of all the existing RFOs in which the European industry has a legitimate interest, in order to promote responsible fishing and to protect the interests of the fishing industry. &#160;&#160; .– The purpose of this proposal for a Council decision is to approve the accession of the European Community to the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean.
By establishing a Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC), the convention aims at ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of the highly migratory fish stocks in those areas.
The importance of the zone of competence of the WCPFC to the Community fleet speaks for itself.
In 2001, Parliament and the Council rejected the previous proposal, which sought the financing of national measures in this area, which was unacceptable and removed the strategic importance of ensuring the maintenance of biodiversity, particularly in view of the Community’s commitments under the various relevant international United Nations conventions.
I thus believe that the objectives of the amendments agreed in May 2003 to the Protocol currently in force, concerning a reduction in fishing effort and support measures for sustainable fishing, are acceptable.
However, we have voted for this agreement for the reasons set out below.
If EU Member States fishing in Guinea do not provide reliable and detailed data on what they catch, Parliament wants the Commission to begin legal proceedings against them and even to revoke their right to fish under the agreement.
The increase in fishing foreseen in the agreement must also be dependent upon unequivocal and independent scientific justification, which must be made available to the Parliament. &#160;&#160; .– I want to express my total support for the European Parliament report on the amendments to the fisheries agreement with Guinea-Bissau.
In addition to extending the current agreement until 2006, the amendments especially involve reducing the fishing effort of essentially non-Community fleets, making better use of Community funding, and strengthening control measures.
I join the rapporteur in calling for more information for Parliament on how this bilateral agreement is to be managed, so that a general evaluation can be carried out.
Finally, I hope this fisheries agreement will be a modest contribution to improving the economic and political situation in the Republic of Guinea-Bissau.
The European Parliament is thus sending out a positive signal in support of the Guinea-Bissau authorities’ efforts to stabilise the country. &#160;&#160; .– I have been following social and political developments in Guinea-Bissau with great concern.
I recognise that the acting political authorities have tried to adopt measures to improve governance of the country, in contrast to the obvious breakdown that occurred during the presidency of Kumba Yala.
I share the rapporteur’s understanding of the need for the European Parliament to give out a positive signal in support of the Guinea-Bissau authorities’ efforts to stabilise the situation in the country.
For the Mediterranean and for our fishermen, oyster farmers and shellfish breeders, Europe means restriction and pollution without compensation. &#160;&#160; .– Parliament has once again been called upon for its opinion on a strategy for the sustainable development of European aquaculture, as part of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy.
In practice, however, this subject is of the utmost importance, since it deals with the procedures and conditions for Community aid to the aquaculture sector.
The second is the fact that this review of the regulation has been used to include an amendment, unrelated to aquaculture, for a 20% increase in the maximum amounts of individual aid payments to fishermen, and removal of the requirement for them to have permanently ceased their activity when recovery plans or emergency measures are adopted.
Since an increase in the Community contribution for fisheries control heavy equipment is one way to help to strengthen control capacity at sea, we agree with the rapporteur’s Amendments Nos 8 and 12, which aim at extending the measure to all Member States and increasing the contribution rate to 50%.
It should not be forgotten that Portugal has the most extensive EEZ (Exclusive Economic Zone) of all European Union countries and has a large number of vessels to monitor. &#160;&#160; .– I have already had occasion to express my concerns to this House regarding the ineffectiveness of fisheries controls.
Illegal, illicit and undeclared fishing is a daily reality in Portugal.
In this context, I support the establishment of cross-border exchange of information, as this is a simple, useful way of imposing sanctions across the EU that are effective, proportionate and, most of all, dissuasive.
At the same time, the initiative to simplify and tighten up the allocation of funding is commendable. &#160;&#160; .– The adoption of the regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources broadened the objectives set out in the common fisheries policy and necessarily created new rules for enforcement.
These include not only the development and implementation of effective fishing control measures but also occupational training and technical and administrative cooperation among all the sectors and institutions involved.
As the report addresses this main requirement, I voted for it. &#160;&#160; .– Regulation (EC) No&#160;3069/95 establishes that observers should be placed on board all vessels operating in the Northwest Atlantic, regulated by the regional organisation NAFO.
Although the latest revision of the common fisheries policy establishes that inspection is the responsibility of the Member States, we are talking about inspection within their EEZs, which does not invalidate Community financing of inspection measures.
I therefore voted against the report. &#160;&#160; .– The fact that I voted to approve these regulations must not be confused with the opinions expressed by the rapporteur.
This is not just because practical problems with the introduction of the single currency are beginning to surface as time goes on, such as its inflationary effects and the increase in bank charges and commission.
The aim is, above all, to protect the public from any kind of fraud and to safeguard the currency.
As the number of Member States in which the euro circulates is set to increase, it is becoming more urgent and necessary to adopt measures in this respect.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; I concluded my speech on the Marinho report yesterday evening by observing that the draft resolution, like many before it, seems to ignore the acute problems facing our societies because of abuses of the right to asylum and confines itself to proposals for minor adjustments, accompanying them with almost mantra-like repetition of the need for ‘full, comprehensive application of the 1951 Geneva Convention’ (relating to the status of refugees).
In my view, this was one more reason to reject the Marinho report, which advocates the constitutional approach. &#160;&#160; On the pretext of trying to simplify asylum rules and procedures, Brussels is in the process of creating a whole legal arsenal designed to overwhelm Europe.
Item 8 of the report means that Parliament now goes in for an exclusive system, which could, in the worst case, lead to great variations in immigration policy, according to the current labour market situation in the various Member States.
Although current legal immigration policy is inadequate in the Member States, Parliament shows a lack of consideration in drawing up, as a solution, a tighter and more exclusive policy, the basis of which is not humanitarianism and human rights, but the needs – defined by whom, may I ask? – of each Member State in terms of its labour market policy.
Solving this problem allowed substantial progress to be made in this field.
Whilst fully complying with the SAFA (Safety Assessment of Foreign Aircraft) procedure, which involves the systematic monitoring of aircraft likely to present risks in terms of air safety, the Commission consequently adopted an initiative in the field of air safety in an attempt to ensure three fundamental aspects: gathering and disseminating more accurate information in the field; on-site inspections of aircrew and aircraft from third countries in Community airports and adopting appropriate measures to remedy any shortcomings found, which could even result in the aircraft being grounded.
As we have already pointed out, confirming and effectively implementing the principle of establishing all the languages of the EU countries as official and working languages is all the more important because we are now seeing a trend in which some languages – those of the most populous countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Italy – demonstrate a real and ever-growing preponderance, to the detriment of the languages of the other countries that make up the European Union.
We would thus be moving towards calculating an overall majority without taking account of national borders, as though there were one single unified people in the EU.
As I said in the amendment that I tabled through my group, I wish to express my admiration admiration I know we all share at the exemplary behaviour of the people of Madrid and of Spanish society as a whole following the terrorist attack that took place on 11 March.
The proposal for a regulation does not guarantee these conditions which, bearing in mind the international dimension of the Mediterranean, are sound guiding principles for the common fisheries policy.
Unfortunately, while our fishermen are hamstrung and their vessels in a state of disrepair, factory ships from Japan, Russia and elsewhere are plundering the fishery resource in French waters.
In the waters off Sète and the coast of Languedoc-Roussillon, vessels smaller than 12 metres have been refused permission to modernise, on the grounds that this would breach the kWh limit, thereby jeopardising their safety.
As regards the specific case of the Mediterranean, the major socio-economic role it plays in many areas and its strategic importance have not been enough, despite the strong calls made by the European Parliament, to ensure that its specific characteristics are respected and that there is an attempt to adopt flexible measures.
The European Commission’s proposal for a regulation, which is examined in the report now before us, upholds a management approach that is totally at odds with the real situation in the Mediterranean and, furthermore, fails to include any flanking measures that would be capable of offsetting the disastrous socio-economic impact which it would have.
The rapporteur, therefore, rightly proposes both rejecting the proposal for a regulation and asking the European Commission to submit at the earliest opportunity a new proposal that takes due account of all suggestions and proposals that may emerge from thorough and in-depth consultations with all interested parties.
The proposal falls in line with an approach similar to that adopted in the measures that have been implemented to date; measures that have proven to be inadequate and which, given the failure of this management policy, have highlighted the need for a change of direction, as stated in the Green Paper on the CFP.
Furthermore, and by way of a warning about the importance of involving fishermen to ensure that the rules are observed, the rapporteur suggests that their experience and the problems facing them have been ignored and that, in the type of legal framework that is proposed, this would push them to the outer fringes of the law.
It highlights the importance of involving all actors in the sector, particularly share fishermen and small-scale fishermen, through their unions, and coastal fishermen operating in 12-mile territorial waters.
Creating subcommittees is another interesting proposal, because it seeks to ensure closer cooperation in every area.
Should the experiment prove these bodies to be effective, they must then be given a significant role in managing fisheries resources.
The sustainable management of fisheries resources, the social interests of the sector and the economic survival of all coastal communities will depend, to a large extent, on the involvement of representatives of the fisheries sector in developing the CFP.
These Councils respond to an objective need of the European Union in terms of the value that their will bring to the CFP and to the work of the European Commission, and in terms of preventing problems arising in the future. &#160;&#160; Here it is at last – the long-awaited proposal for a decision establishing Regional Advisory Councils (RACs), which is a response to the framework regulation that provides for new ways of participating in the common fisheries policyWhile it is certainly a response, it also raises further questions.
The rapporteur rightly points out that without adequate and continued funding this initiative will quickly become an empty shell, which will have helped the Commission to ease its conscience for the minimum outlay.
The rapporteur rightly points out that without adequate and continued funding this initiative will quickly become an empty shell, which will have helped the Commission to ease its conscience for the minimum outlay.
Its position is similar to that of the Turks in Greece and Bulgaria, the Hungarians in Slovakia and Romania and the Russians in the Baltic states, except that the memories in Kosovo are more recent and more bitter.
I expect that the Albanians intolerant attitude towards the Serbs, Turks and Roma – which is deplorable – will pass away as soon as they are certain that they can take over the running of the country and will never again be dominated by others. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats take the following views: Item 28 We do not consider this to be the right forum for calling upon the Member States to change their legislation regarding euthanasia.
Item 147 We consider that the Member States must themselves decide whether or not they need to make use of transitional rules.
We think it important that the transitional rules apply for as short a time as possible. &#160;&#160; .
I hope that lessons will be learnt for the future. &#160;&#160; I have today, together with a majority, voted down this report (184 against, 177 in favour and 13 abstentions).
The report does, however, cover several important issues such as trafficking in human beings, women’s rights, asylum policy and the rule of law, to which I would like to lend my support.
As elsewhere, we claim to be applying the Copenhagen criteria, based on the assumption that a viable market economy is being created, whilst in reality the states’ erosion of social protection and their underfunding of social programmes have led to poverty, unemployment and external debt.
This is breathtaking hypocrisy, given the disastrous state of international policy in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo, as evidenced by the recent violence in Kosovo, in the presence of some 20&#160;000 NATO troops.
We therefore voted against this resolution. &#160;&#160; , .
By submitting a request, on 21 February 2003, to join the European Union, this country that was part of the former Yugoslavia became the first country from the Western Balkans to choose to align its destiny with that of the European Union, reinforcing the idea that the European project is still a mobilising factor, even beyond the round of enlargement that will take place on 1 May.
Given the political and post-war situation in the region, I fully share the rapporteur’s opinion that Croatia can become the driving force for progress in the Western Balkans.
The European Union cannot allow such problems within its borders.
The rapporteur refers to these problems and calls for a rapid solution to be found.
In recent years Croatia has embarked on economic and political reforms aimed at democratising the country and modernising its economy.
Croatia has also made substantial progress in bringing its legislation into line with that of the European Union in several areas, in accordance with the guidelines laid down for the association and stabilisation process.
The June Movement firmly believes that Turkey's possible membership cannot in any way be linked to a need for an EU Constitution or a common security and defence policy.
The June Movement is fundamentally opposed to an EU Constitution and a common security and defence policy. &#160;&#160; .– The Oostlander report assessing ‘Turkey’s progress towards accession’ is compelled to make negative assessments of each area, yet falls short of reaching a negative overall conclusion.
The Oostlander report tentatively moves in an unexpected direction, namely the internal reform of the policies and institutions of the EU itself (see item G and paragraph 36).
This idea is worthy of consideration, particularly as it ties in with a suggestion we ourselves have made in the past, that a variable-geometry Europe would more readily welcome Turkey as a partner, as it would establish free relations between sovereign countries, and would avoid the explosive situation of being subject to a supranational decision-making system in which Turkey would carry very considerable weight.
The report contains some aspects that I believe to be fair and others with which I disagree, particularly those underlying its main thesis.
The rapporteur is right to condemn the Turkish authorities’ failure to respect trade union freedom and to criticise the progress of the trial of Leyla Zana and other Turkish MPs of Kurdish origin.
By integrating the whole of Turkey, Europe would be changing not only its geographical dimensions but also its very nature.
We must, however, connect Turkey with Europe.
I also voted in favour of the amendment calling on the Turkish authorities to make a public acknowledgement of the genocide against the Armenians.
The title of the report says much about what the Commission is cooking up, with the active complicity of the political ‘elites’. ‘Report on Turkey’s progress towards accession’ – you only have to read the title to be in no doubt that the Community bodies are already planning Turkey’s accession.
We are expected to wait until December 2004 to know whether or not negotiations on accession can get under way.
These form the basic conditions for partnership and the European Union.
A constitutional state is unthinkable without an independent judicial system.
While we are still not convinced that Turkey's ultimate destiny lies in membership of the EU, or that the European Union can welcome it as a Member State, we do not want to rule this out at this point in time.
This should also be debated within the European Union.
A final decision in favour of an association agreement to the exclusion of membership appears to us to be just as premature.
Those who want to keep Turkey outside the European Union on the grounds that it is largely outside Europe in geographical terms or because it is not founded upon the Judaeo-Christian tradition, lost the argument a long time ago.
In its current state, Turkey does fit into the authoritarian Europe of the first half of the twentieth century, but not as yet in a European Union of parliamentary democracies.
Legislative amendments without changes in practice are not enough.
Anyone who wants Turkey to join for military, economic or idealistic reasons should realise the negative effects that a premature admission could have.
The rapporteur has made a realistic interpretation of the doubts that have been building up in various Member States as regards Turkey’s accession to the European Union, by advocating a realistic policy which, in his view, the Union must adopt towards that country.
We must not promote the idea that, as a result of the measures that have already been adopted, Turkey is already close to accession.
Instead, we should work closely with the current Turkish Government to ensure that it fully meets the Copenhagen political criteria.
In fact, the Council has, perhaps over-hastily, given Turkey recognition as a candidate for accession and, as the rapporteur states, ‘in this recognition the quality of Turkey as a democratic and constitutional state did not play a dominant role’.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; I have abstained in the final vote.
The report was adopted by 211 votes to 84, with 46 abstentions.
The EU as a proponent of peace is undermined if Turkey is allowed to enter into negotiations regarding EU membership in a situation in which the country continues to be an occupying power in the northern part of the new EU member, Cyprus.
It is for this reason that I welcomed the possibility of proposing a privileged partnership, as envisaged in the future European Constitution.
We must, however, at all costs avoid this process automatically resulting in lower contributions to the ACP countries, diverted towards other strategic areas for investment or contributions being reduced as a result of the accession of the new Member States.
I feel that we – as Parliament – should in some way point out to the Council that we found this truly strange. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, even though, in my opinion, considerable elements are missing from this resolution, it is largely balanced, and so I voted in favour of it.
President Rugova declared a day of national mourning for both nationalities, whilst the Serbian Prime Ministermarched at the head of a demonstration in Belgrade where there were calls to ‘kill the Albanians!’ &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome the Baltas report as a cautious step towards Croatian membership of the EU, and I must say that we had got even further on this matter, since, with the Brok report, this House clearly argued for candidate status and for Croatia’s accession in the next wave.
The question is whether or not we want Turkey to be part of European integration.
It is not history that will take us forward, but our own will and that of our peoples.
I would say, however, that those who have expressed their views have done so prematurely, and at a time when any reservations we may have about Turkey, be they well-founded or otherwise, undermine the difficult task to which the EU is committed, alongside the UN, that of finding a solution to the Cyprus question.
We want a strong Turkey as a good partner, but we also want a stable European Union that is capable of action.
Those who turn Turkey into a full Member State of the European Union, destabilise the European Union.
I am in favour of an honest policy on Turkey, which says that there are limits to everything, even to a Europe that can be integrated.
Turkey must be our closest partner and as far as Byzantium is concerned, you can say that Saint Augustine came from today’s Algeria, and he was one of the fathers of the West, but even so, I would not incorporate the current Algeria or the future Algeria –&#160;even a democratic Algeria&#160;–&#160;into the European Union.
I would like to thank Commissioner Wallström for the fact that the Commission developed this thematic strategy.
Some countries go over the top but some are not doing anything in this area.
The second thing that is very dear to me is that we ensure, in the areas of waste and recycling, that the instruments and regulations that run in parallel, such as for example REACH and IVO, as well as other product policies and the resource strategies – that we should have also included in the debate now – are compatible with this report.
We warmly welcome the Commission’s approach, which involves developing sustainable waste management whilst giving equal value to the environmental, economic and social aspects and, therefore, to develop sustainable policies.
The first challenge ahead of us is for waste policy to adapt to enlargement and the increased diversity of the European Union.
We must set common rules guaranteeing a high level of environmental protection for all facilities in the European waste recovery market.
This means waste legislation must take more of a framework approach.
We need to accurately target environmental impacts and look at how waste prevention, re-use and increased recycling can best reduce this impact.
We must adopt a flexible approach which takes account of the diversity of geographical, social and economic situations in the various Member States.
There are markets in waste which already function perfectly and which handle great quantities in an efficient manner.
Commissioner, we impatiently await the thematic strategy on waste and we will always draft our proposals for improvements in accordance with what is best for the environment and for the general public. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, waste has to be prevented both quantitatively and qualitatively, and at the same time there have to be ways of recovering material defined as waste, so that the quantity of waste for disposal is minimised.
Thus competition in conjunction with Community legislation already implemented is satisfactorily steering towards the prevention of waste.
The trend is absolutely the right one and only needs to be endorsed.
Europe is acting properly in its aim towards sustainable waste management and there can be no compromise regarding this objective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, waste prevention, reuse and recycling – all these topics have been in the limelight over the past few years.
All over Europe, there are now recycling installations, and all over Europe, people are committed to processing the waste we are all producing.
These differences in implementation also lead to competitive problems.
In some countries, it is the governments and taxpayers who collect, and industry contributes little, while in other countries, it is precisely the other way round.
For example, in the case of excessive transport distances, the environmental benefit becomes a burden.
Finally, I should like to comment on the economic and social aspects of waste prevention.
Our key topic is the environment, but that also encompasses other aspects, particularly in the economic and social areas.
It is precisely these aspects that have been insufficiently addressed, even if the costs have been regularly mentioned recently in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
The Lisbon objective needs a shot in the arm and that should come from a new Parliament and a new Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, waste is a major problem throughout the European Union.
Many people in the European Union are trying to tackle the issue of landfill sites situated near homes or the fact that incinerators are being planned in some countries, including my own to try to deal with the waste problem.
We welcome the fact that the report has included some very important things, such as waste reduction plans.
In its communication the Commission stated that it would consider changes to waste definition if the need for such changes was demonstrated, and also that the alternative proposal guarantees a high level of environmental protection.
In such circumstances, case-by-case assessment may be necessary to determine the best option. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It stresses the need to substantially increase the share of renewable energy in the total world energy supply.
In answer to this challenge, the European Community and the Member States launched, during the World Summit in Johannesburg, the so-called 'Johannesburg Renewable Energy Coalition', inviting all countries of the world to joint it.
The Commission intends to present three initiatives at the Bonn conference: first, a communication assessing the state of development of renewable energy in the European Union.
The promotion of renewable energy has an important part to play in both those areas.
The communication will evaluate progress made by Member States under the directive on electricity from renewable energy sources.
It will report that all Member States have adopted national targets for the share of electricity production from renewable energy sources.
If Member States achieve their national targets, the share of electricity from renewable energy sources in the EU of 15 should come close to the 22% target of the directive, compared to 14% in 2001.
However, national policies and measures currently in place will probably achieve only half of the progress necessary, bringing the renewable energy share in electricity production only up to between 18% and 19% in 2010.
Since that date, in 2001 the Community adopted new legislation in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, a directive on electricity from renewable energy sources –covering biofuels, energy performance of buildings, co-generation, etc.
However, even if this framework legislation is fully transposed and implemented, the share of renewable energy should still only reach 10% in 2010.
However, it is the view of the Commission that the adoption of an EU target of 2020 is premature at this point in time, as further consultations are necessary.
Nevertheless my personal opinion is that we should give a clear signal in Bonn that we are ready to set 2020 targets, but that more work is needed on what those targets should be.
Such a signal is critical if the EU wants to maintain its leadership role within the coalition for renewable energy and in the field of global sustainable development in general.
The targets set for 2020 are also necessary to give certainty to the fledgling renewable energy industry within the EU and, in particular, to the financial sector.
In this regard, I believe that the directives on energy efficiency in buildings and cogeneration will play an important role, as well as the new intelligent energy plan for Europe.
The Commission has already opened a wide debate on this energy vector which will allow us to use forms of transport without emissions.
The German Federal Chancellor had announced this conference at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg.
You referred, Commissioner, to the European preparatory conference in Berlin, which was held in January, attended by over 650 participants from 45 countries, and made its expectations very clear – not only as regards what it expected of the Bonn conference, but also of the European Union and its policies.
I think the way in which the European Union has conceived its strategy for the development of renewable energies has been positively exemplary, envisaging the doubling of the share of energy production from renewable sources to 12% – in the case of the electricity sector to 22.1% – by 2010.
You mentioned our market penetration campaign and our legislation to promote electricity and biofuels.
I think it is, in the first place, important that we should look beyond 2010 and – although this is where I disagree with you, Commissioner – to set ourselves a new objective.
One way is to analyse the EU’s former policies, which in most sectors have already successfully made economic growth independent of any increase in emissions.
This has come about when the actions have decentralised, forming a variety of effective policies that create a dynamic, and even positive side effects for the environment and society.
The Bonn conference will be the first step.
Such an approach would also give the United States of America and Russia a new opportunity to be involved and participate in action to reduce greenhouse gases.
The investment in research into the promotion of renewables is already excessive, and Parliament is again prepared to increase its minimum share.
I am perfectly familiar with the debates in my own country about the costs of renewable energies.
I wish to state that there is a misunderstanding among some of the Members regarding the current situation relating to the Kyoto Protocol.
This is because most of these countries, particularly the poor ones, are already affected by climate change.
We must make use of these facts as arguments during our meeting in Bonn.
We must make sure that, in the future too, we are world leaders in the area of renewable energy.
We take very good note of your commitment to parliamentary work and to the electors.
The vote will take place in a few minutes time.(2) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if you had had to be driven around this week by the so-called car service, I am sure you too would be boiling over with rage.
