Situation in the Horn of Africa (debate) The next item is the position of the Council and the Commission on the situation in the Horn of Africa.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, at this late hour I wish to make a few remarks on the Council's position on the Horn of Africa.
The visit that your delegation made late last year to Eritrea and Ethiopia and also Djibouti was important.
Since September 2008, the Council has deployed this instrument to fight piracy off the Somali coast, first through the coordination cell EU NAVCO, based in Brussels and then since December 2008 through the maritime operation called EU NAVFOR Atalanta.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission has over recent years already called for greater attention to be given by the European Union to the situation in the Horn of Africa.
The internal situation in each of the countries of the Horn cannot be understood in isolation from the regional dynamics.
The Commission will also continue to monitor the human rights situation and the democratisation process.
The political dialogue initiated in 2008 provides a good platform for sustained engagement with the Eritrean authorities.
The recent dispute between Eritrea and Djibouti is to be seen in a larger regional context and for which a global solution needs to be sought through local and regional actors.
Indeed, 2009 is a decisive year for the future of this country.
Failing to do so could turn the planned elections of 2009 into a scenario of renewed violence and conflict.
There is no plan B for the Djibouti process.
Finally, on the Horn of Africa in general, I very much appreciate Parliament's support for the Commission's Horn of Africa initiative.
The participation of Eritrea, which plays a key role in the regional dynamics, is essential for the success of the Horn of Africa strategy.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office, thank you very much for the opinion of the Council and the Commission on the Horn of Africa.
The Council and the Commission must draw their conclusions from the fact that, in this Parliament's view, the governments of the countries of the Horn of Africa are not acting in accordance with their obligations under the terms of Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement.
On 29 August, Ms Birtukan Midekssa, the leader of a party with a parliamentary seat, was again arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment for refusing to publicly state that she had requested the pardon that the Meles Zenawi Government used to release her in 2007, along with many other political leaders of the opposition held since the elections of 2005.
As for Somalia, which is currently the most serious situation in the whole Horn of Africa, the international community, including the European Union, has a criminal lack of interest in the fate of the people in a country where there has been no law and order for decades and where Ethiopian troops were able to occupy the land and commit crimes with impunity and where pirates and terrorist groups thrive.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the Horn of Africa is a dreadful region where internal and regional conflicts continue to undermine peace and security.
The Somali Parliament is a crucial factor for confidence-building and can make the peace process all-inclusive.
The three countries to which the delegation's visit was confined - Eritrea, Djibouti and Ethiopia - have in common poverty and therefore a very low standard of human rights.
The border dispute between Eritrea and Ethiopia is totally absurd, as also is the involvement of more than 200 000 soldiers in this dispute.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, the Horn of Africa has recently moved back into focus in the EU.
The Ethiopian occupying forces have now left Somalia, but more than 16 000 people have lost their lives since the invasion of these forces.
This is necessary both to protect our maritime routes and to make a contribution - albeit possibly just a small one - to solving the problem of the failed State of Somalia. (RO) I would first of all like to congratulate my fellow Members for this fact-finding mission to one of the most perilous regions in the world and certainly one of the most disadvantaged.
The European Union must support the consolidation of these organisations, along with an increase in their ability to prevent and resolve conflicts.
According to the Cotonou Agreement, these countries need to reach an agreement with the European Union with regard to observing the rule of law, human rights and democratic principles. (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the morning of Sunday 23 September 2001, the Swedish citizen Dawit Isaak was taken from his home in Eritrea by the country's authorities.
The European Parliament is today demanding that Dawit Isaak and the other journalists imprisoned in Eritrea be released immediately.
For seven years, the Swedish citizen Dawit Isaak has been imprisoned without trial in a prison cell in a terrible dictatorship.
We require the immediate release of Dawit Isaak, as well as all of the other imprisoned journalists.
The EU's future aid to Eritrea must be linked to clear demands for the release of Dawit Isaak and the other journalists.
President Bill Clinton sent US troops to tame Somalia, but that was a disaster too.
Ever since then, Somaliland has been the only cohesive and functional polity in Somalia.
Certainly, the people of Somaliland would be justified in asking why we here in the EU were so reluctant to recognise their de facto country, but were so quick to recognise the independence of Kosovo. (RO) The European Union really has every good reason to be concerned by the situation created in Somalia where a power vacuum has virtually formed which has every chance of being filled by Somali Islamic militia.
Somalia must have a government capable of acting as a dialogue partner for the international institutions, European Union and all the other states willing to assume an active role in bringing stability to this region. (RO) The European Union has numerous responsibilities in Somalia and the Horn of Africa.
The chances of the European Union and the international community changing the basic reality in Somalia are slight.
Olle Schmidt and Eva-Britt Svensson asked about the journalist, Dawit Isaak: yes, we are trying to do something in Eritrea to set him free.
First let me say that we really appreciate the input of the delegations that travelled to the region, in particular to Mr Hutchinson, Mr Kaczmarek and Mr Irujo Amezaga.
The third point is that, in order to find a long-term solution in Somalia, the Council lends its full support to the Djibouti process within the transitional Federal Government and the Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia, and there is no plan B to this process.
EUR 20 million have been allocated for the period of December 2008 to May 2009.
However, we consider that it would be difficult to make an across-the-board judgement regarding Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement.
In this context, I would like to emphasise that, in addition to the envelope of the EDF, there are now funds under the so-called food facility, which will be EUR 100 million from 2009 to 2011.
Finally, we are also fully aware of the situation of the Swedish citizen, Dawit Isaak, who is still under arrest in Eritrea.
My colleague Louis Michel talked to President Isaias about this case during his last visit in June 2008, and some further quiet diplomacy is going on in this particular case.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 15 January 2009.
