Presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report - 2008 (debate) The next item is the presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report.
President of the Court of Auditors. - Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to have the opportunity to take part in your debate today about the Annual Report of the European Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the 2008 financial year, which I have already presented to you, Mr President, and to the Committee on Budgetary Control on 10 November.
First, the Court gives an unqualified opinion on the accounts for the second year running.
In other words, the final accounts for 2008 present a true and fair view, although due attention should be paid to addressing weaknesses in the systems of a number of directorates-general of the Commission.
The overall error rate for this policy group is under 2%, a decrease with respect to previous years.
Deficiencies in supervisory and control systems related to rural development contributed significantly to the Court's overall assessment of systems as only partially effective.
The Court also gives a qualified opinion to the policy group Economic and financial affairs due to errors found in transactions relating to the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development.
The Court estimates that at least 11% of the total of EUR 24.8 billion reimbursed during 2008 in respect of the 2000-2006 programming period should not have been reimbursed.
However, the Court considers that Member States do not provide sufficiently complete and reliable information on financial corrections to support this claim.
And the Court found cases of Member States replacing ineligible expenditure rejected by the Commission with new expenditure which was also ineligible.
As regards the 2007-2013 programming period, almost all payments are pre-financing, for which there are relatively few conditions.
It is therefore too early to say whether changes to rules or systems have reduced the level of errors.
However, delays in approving Member States' systems descriptions, compliance assessments and audit strategies have slowed budgetary implementation and may increase the risk that control systems do not prevent or detect errors in the start-up phase.
Overall, error rates appear to be decreasing but legal frameworks continue to be complex and problems remain in some control systems.
Reducing the level of irregular payments further will therefore require the continuing improvement of supervisory and control systems and, where appropriate, the simplification of rules and regulations.
I believe the Court plays a vital role in such circumstances by providing reports and opinions that not only identify existing problems but also make recommendations for the future.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission welcomes the Court's annual report for 2008.
This can certainly be attributed to the substantial simplification efforts of recent years.
The 'red area' is now about 30%, corresponding to cohesion spending, which is the one area where the Court has still not found significant progress in the level of irregularities.
The Court also reminds us of the essential role of complete and reliable information from all Member States on financial corrections.
This reduces the risk of error and the costs of control.
We also need to define together an acceptable ratio between costs and risk - the so-called 'tolerable risk of error'.
The 2008 discharge procedure starts in the last days of this Commission and is expected to conclude in the early months of the next Commission.
Mr President, President of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner, today is a successful day for the Court of Auditors, but also for the Committee on Budgetary Control, for the Commission and, above all, for you Mr Kallas.
In recent years, we have seen a clear improvement in budgetary and financial management and this improvement is due to the advice and consultancy provided by the Court of Auditors.
For this reason, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors very warmly and congratulate it on producing reports that are increasingly easy to understand.
The traffic light system is a good solution, because it sends out clear messages.
There are some areas which are in a better position according to the classification of the Court of Auditors, for example external aid.
However, we also know, of course, that external aid is only in a better position because it is not possible to control the budget aid and because the use of the funds, for example, via the United Nations, merits complaints by the relevant Director General, but not even a reserve in his annual report.
Our focus will be on the forthcoming 2008 discharge procedure for the structural funds and external aid.
We must deal with the problems in this area at source.
You have mentioned some of our Member States and I believe that the Commission must significantly increase its efforts with regard to our two newest members, Romania and Bulgaria, otherwise we will have lasting problems there.
We also see the efforts which are made in these areas to ensure that our budgetary procedures are correct in every respect.
We are very concerned about those areas in which no significant improvement has been observed.
From our point of view, something which is extremely important is that we receive answers to two questions.
Secondly, it was declared that the year 2008 would definitely be better.
However, 2008 was just the same as 2007, so those declarations have come to nothing.
We welcome the formula of advance payment, because this makes it easier for the beneficiary countries to use the funds.
However, it seems that, perhaps especially during the last two years, some of the funds have been used by beneficiary countries to improve the current result on the budgetary side, although not for implementation in accordance with the area envisaged for financial support.
As Mr Kallas was also saying, Parliament must strive to find an equilibrium in the tolerable risk of error.
As my fellow Members have also mentioned, the main problems primarily concern the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
It is true that the Court, in doing its job, points out errors and irregularities in relation to these funds.
However, those who are able to look deeply into and to analyse matters can see that, behind the errors highlighted, there are even graver issues, as the judicial experiences of several countries in recent years demonstrate.
We must endeavour to make improvements in this area.
I believe that the Commission should promote Member States which behave in a virtuous manner, and punish and penalise Member States which do comply with the rules.
The level of the irregularities is decreasing.
For years on end, we have regarded IACS - the system ensuring common management of agricultural expenditure - as a good system.
I would remind the House of the notorious comment in paragraph 6.17 that up to 11% of the expenditure in respect of the Structural Funds, European Regional Development Fund and European Social Fund should not actually have been disbursed.
As the general rapporteur has pointed out, 80% of all European funds are actually spent within the framework of comanagement, by the Member States and the Commission.
We must now, once again, exert pressure on the Member States' finance ministers, in particular, to ensure that they shoulder their responsibility and issue a declaration stating that they have done their jobs properly, that their administration has spent funds correctly, and that this has been subject to controls.
I myself am responsible for own resources on the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The Court of Auditors has made a number of observations on this, too.
I should like to finish off by mentioning the discharge for the other institutions.
In my opinion, the key issues in this regard should include public procurement procedures, where problems are apparent.
This Court of Auditors' report, too, raises some very negative points about the Council.
I will remind you of the situation at the end of 1999 and the beginning of 2000, when the Court of Auditors published devastating criticism of the European Commission, and it was, at the time, absolutely justified.
Today, we can see clear progress in this area, but I am drawing attention to the importance of this debate, because if we are looking for sources of greater authority for the European Union and EU institutions, then these principles of transparency are extremely significant.
I would like to stress that advance payments are a very positive development, but they do also have a certain disadvantage because, in fact, governments often use this money for electoral purposes.
The first argument you will hear is that the auditors are not saying that it is fraud, but only errors.
The second argument that you will hear is that the rules are too complex.
On top of the EUR 116 billion payments for the year 2008 that have been audited by the Court of Auditors, another EUR 40 billion has gone out of the European Union coffers.
After all, this report has made us aware that approximately 11% of the Cohesion Fund for 2008 should never have been spent.
This represents EUR 4 billion that has been swept under the carpet.
I should like to hear what the Commission intends to do about this.
However, it is even more interesting that in the results section, the European Commission does not agree with the diagnosis made by the Court of Auditors.
During the debate, we would like to clarify the differences of opinion between the Commission and the Court of Auditors.
Secondly, it is very important to ascertain if we are dealing with mistakes, if we are dealing with improprieties, or if we are dealing with crimes.
There may be very different kinds of conclusions.
The management control system is making progress, and we only hope that it will be extended and deepened.
This is, above all, the result of better management of funds in the area of agriculture and natural resources, which has been our biggest headache over the last few years.
You say that 11% is irregular and the non-attached Member said that the figure was EUR 4 billion.
It is over EUR 2.5 billion, which you specifically state is taxpayers' money that should not have been spent.
However, the consequence is that the European Commission must continue to exert pressure on the Member States and we will support you in this area, Mr Kallas.
There must be an increased focus not only on regularity but also on efficiency, to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent correctly. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Chapter 7 of the Court of Auditors' report which concerns research, energy and transport.
This is an area in which expenditure amounts to more than EUR 9 billion.
In other words, on the basis of this calculation, between EUR 180 and 450 million has been incorrectly spent.
However, I do not agree that the Commission, in giving its opinion on the Court of Auditors' recommendation, is turning this recommendation on its head.
However, I would like to concentrate on the area of continued significant weakness, namely the area of structural and cohesion funds.
While the Commission may consider it is an achievement that only 11% of the largest part of the budget - cohesion spending - contained errors, I consider it a shocking fact that it has been determined that almost EUR 5 billion of a EUR 46 billion budget should never have been paid out, as described by the Court of Auditors.
I have to say that my region of Wales, already in receipt of structural funds from that EUR 46 billion pot, could happily have spent and accounted for the spending of that additional EUR 5 billion.
Errors seem to be at the level of implementing institutions, and therefore I ask that the European Parliament and Commission call for the individual Member States to provide a thorough audit for the funds received.
When taxpayers' money is at stake, as it is across the EU in the case of the regional budget, standards of accountability can never be too high. (NL) I should like to say a few things about the European Commission's expenditure in the framework of external relations.
According to the Court of Auditors, more errors were made in this field in 2008 than in 2007; and these errors were found in all the areas of external policy.
The fear of doing things wrong in the eyes of the Commission is great.
In October, authorities from four Member States submitted to the President of the European Commission an opinion on reducing the pressure of EU rules.
They recommended the establishment of an external, independent commission to reduce the pressure of rules at EU level.
Endeavours to improve financial management must not be limited to the simplification of rules, however.
The European Commission and the Member States must draw up an action plan to this end.
In my opinion, such an action plan would help give financial management the political priority it so badly needs.
After all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to ensure that EU expenditure ends up in the right place at the right time. (NL) The latest Annual Report of the European Court of Auditors again gives perplexing insights into the way the European Union handles European taxpayers' money.
The Court of Auditors has ascertained on the basis of realistic samples that, in the 2000-2006 period, an estimated 11% of the total amount of EUR 36.6 billion under the Cohesion Fund should not have been disbursed.
This means that more than EUR 4 billion in grants has been handed out erroneously.
Tackling this must be a priority and, at the same time, of course, the existing control mechanisms need to be improved. (FR) Mr President, President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, thank you President Caldeira for this very high-quality report, thank you Mr Kallas for all the work you have done, and congratulations on your new appointment within our European Commission.
Regarding the underlying transactions, President Caldeira, please could you make it clear to Parliament whether the Court is issuing a positive or negative statement of assurance?
The Court's opinion is divided into five paragraphs, which list opinions by political group, and I am having difficulty distinguishing this from the statement of assurance, provided for in Article 248 of the treaty, which also states that the Court may make specific assessments for each major area of Community activity.
I would like to finish by talking about shared management and the audit chain, and to reiterate my proposal to include the national courts of auditors more in the process since, according to the Council's Decision, we will never have national statements from the governments.
Parliament will investigate carefully the information you have provided and will act on it in the coming months.
The European Structural Funds, which many of my fellow Members have already mentioned, represent another cause for concern.
I would like to say to the Eurosceptic parts of this House that we are talking about 11% of the total payments and not 11% of the budget.
These irregularities relate mainly to excessive payments and the incorrect use of funds.
The Member States must ensure that the applications are monitored more carefully at a national level.
It is clear that any waste or any irregularities in relation to European taxpayers' money is too much.
In my opinion, he can rightly claim to have made a great deal of progress during that time.
The first is the fact that the biggest problems still lie with the Member States.
Many of my fellow Members have already given the example of regional policy, which I can only underline.
Therefore, I should like to put the following question to the Commission with regard to the national declarations that exist in some Member States: could you perhaps come forward with a specific proposal to make these compulsory for all the Member States of the European Union?
This is not just a debate about a set of accounts, but a fundamental breakdown in trust between the institutions represented here and the people we represent back at home.
Ever since I was 18 years old, I have received a monthly statement from my bank.
Take a look at what works elsewhere, for example in Germany, where it is possible to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and meaningfulness of expenditure, and in Austria, and develop a concept, perhaps as part of an initiative report from Parliament, which describes how the things that you do can be done much better, so that you can genuinely fulfil your obligations. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, we MEPs owe it to every tax-paying European citizen to monitor with the appropriate attention the proper, justified and legal use of their taxes in the European Union.
I also think that suitable technical cooperation has developed between the European Court of Auditors and the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, thereby guaranteeing that Parliament can perform its monitoring task in an appropriate manner.
We never purchase a computer on the basis of looking at the control panel, but none of our computers works for a long time without a proper control panel system inside.
But for me, the most important message is that, when the Lisbon Treaty comes into force, we need to reduce the complexity, to provide better conditions for our expenditure at local level and to get the money in time to those who are applying for it, whether they are small- and medium-sized enterprises, researchers or farmers, back in our countries.
We have to go for better cooperation among Member States' auditing systems and we have to work together in the future.
In the areas where the EU is directly responsible for the budget, the errors are small.
The shortcomings are with the Member States.
Mr Søndergaard suggested something at the end of his speech which may nevertheless be the way forward, namely to come up with a completely new budgetary system that gives the Member States better control of the cash flows. (Applause) (NL) Mr President, you may be familiar with the film Groundhog Day, about a man who wakes up to the very same day over and over again?
Although I am in only my third year as an MEP, I already feel like the protagonist of that film.
Of course, you could increase the permitted error rate, as the European Commission is proposing, but that smacks of moving the goalposts.
If you and your successor do not manage to get the control activities right, it will be bad not only for budgetary control in the European Union and for you, the European Commission, but also for the legitimacy of us all and of our work.
His report will be very useful to us in our deliberations which lead up to the granting of a discharge.
Of course, the irregularities in the budgets do not affect the Council's budget as severely as they do the agricultural sector, but nevertheless, we will also have questions about public procurement, late payments or overdue payments and repeated overestimating.
We expect the Swedish Presidency to be ready to discuss this over the next few days and also... (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Mr President, Mr Caldeira, Commissioner, I wish to thank the European Court of Auditors for its admirable work for the benefit of the European taxpayer.
The EU accounts allow a 2% margin of error.
The situation was also the same in the two previous years.
On the other hand, the Auditors show up some areas of dispute, because they found that among the applications for funds made by Member States in the area of cohesion policy, 11% contained mistakes.
I encourage the Court of Auditors further to intensify cooperation with their counterparts in Member States.
Finally, I would like to say that we must devote more attention to the problem of education and to giving better information to beneficiaries of EU and institutional policies which implement and manage specific programmes.
In conclusion, in my opinion, the Commission should make every effort, most of all, to simplify financial regulations while retaining basic monitoring mechanisms which prevent abuse.
This should be changed, and I stress: simplify and inform, but also monitor. (EL) Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the Court of Auditors on their excellent work, as well as the European Commission, and say that I am very pleased, because I can see that the overall situation has improved.
I should like to emphasise in particular that this is the first time that agricultural spending is no longer in the red.
Things are going better overall, but there are still problems with expenditure on cohesion policy, to which several of my honourable colleagues have already referred.
However, I am quite optimistic about the future.
In the long term, the system of joint management needs to be reviewed and a greater share of the final responsibility transferred to the Member States, thereby helping to simplify the rules.
Finally, I should like to point out that the Court of Auditors' message on the need to simplify the rules has reached the Council and the Commission and I honestly hope that the changes... (The President cut off the speaker) (NL) The 2008 report once again gives cause for penetrating analysis and action, including on the part of the European Parliament.
I thank you for this report.
After all, there is strong friction here in the relationship between the European and national levels.
I am also happy to take on board the suggestions for simplification contained in your report. (DA) Mr President, the Court of Auditors has my heartfelt thanks for a sound and very serviceable report.
The Commissioner, too, has been too optimistic.
However, I would now like to draw attention to an area in which only EUR 2.7 billion was spent last year, but which causes significant problems.
There have been improvements, for example, in the payments for projects, but nevertheless it is still the case that no audits can be carried out on some of the projects because the receipts are missing, not to mention the fact that some receipts are not even provided in the first place or that there are no opportunities for follow-up audits.
I believe that we should focus our attention on these areas in the coming months and years.
With regard to the Structural Funds, when compared with the Court's analysis of the period 2000-2006, the management and monitoring systems for the period 2007-2013 are giving rise to stricter regulations and greater reliability and transparency in terms of expenditure, as well as to greater accountability on the part of the Member States.
Therefore, much work needs to be done in order to further simplify the rules.
Quality of economic growth and transparency in the use of Community resources are two objectives of the same battle which we need to wage.
They have given substance to the European Union's fundamental values.
Again, under that review we will be looking at spending money in areas which the Court of Auditors clearly has concerns about, particularly in the field of research and innovation.
You can be more specific in what you say and Parliament will give you its support.
However, I must say at this point that the majority of the problems identified are due to the incorrect application and lack of understanding of complex EU regulations.
At Community level, simplification measures are under discussion in the Council and in Parliament.
In this period of economic slowdown, it would be particularly unfortunate for project promoters, of which there are still many, to have difficulty accessing the European funding available to them. (FI) Madam President, we are dealing with an important matter, and I want firstly to say that the management of the budget has got a lot better.
When I was drafting the budget for the 2008 Parliament and other institutions, I noticed that things were not really right in this area.
When the study has been completed, we will know whether there is something dubious about all this or, alternatively, that everything is all right.
I would like to raise one issue linked to the fact that this is the last report from the European Court of Auditors under the current treaties.
The Council is a budgetary authority, and we also note that we have many problems in the Member States.
I wanted to express this regret, Madam President. (NL) I have been present throughout the debate.
Some have said EUR 4 billion, others have said EUR 2 billion, and so on.
My answer would be that, as an auditor, I would be delighted to give such an opinion when the time came, but it is not the job of auditors to be happy with the opinions that they give.
We have seen that there has been a sharp fall in the number of errors in some areas, in particular in the area of agriculture, but there are also areas where more care is needed.
I think that this is the way that our message should be understood with regard to prospects for the future.
Several MEPs have asked what can be done to solve these problems.
The Court of Auditors has made its contribution in this report and in previous reports by pointing out that its recommendations in relation to improving the supervisory and control systems in the Member States are important, and by stating, with regard to the Commission, that it is equally important to simplify the regulatory framework, which means not making things more complicated than they need to be.
However, the Court of Auditors also provides you and, in particular, the competent parliamentary committees, the Committee on Budgetary Control, with all of our reports relating to the effectiveness of the policies and whether the funds in the different areas are being used correctly.
Finally, a word on the role that the Court of Auditors and the courts of auditors in the Member States can play in the future.
I have two points relating to the past, from 2008 and recent years.
In the 2008 Synthesis report, this was EUR 18 380 363.22, which is under 0.01% of the EU budget.
We have discussed all these billions which have not been properly managed in the structural funds, but something is recovered finally.
As President Caldeira has already said, objectives are defined by more than 500 programmes accepted by the Commission, Parliament and Council.
At the last plenary session when we discussed the discharge for 2007, one idea was to reduce the number of programmes and to have bigger projects and bigger programmes which are much easier to survey.
This is a key issue and, as one Member said was the case with rural development, you cannot measure objectives - especially in external actions, where you have very political objectives - and say that those objectives are being achieved.
Concerning dialogue, which was underlined here as important, I must say that we have tried to do our best to have good dialogue with Parliament, with the Committee on Budgetary Control and with the Court of Auditors.
I myself like to debate everything with people with different views, different attitudes and different assessments.
I would like her to be constructive and I would like to see fewer incorrect stories by her in the German newspaper the Bild Zeitung.
I would prefer to hear constructive suggestions about how we can rescue the situation and how the Court of Auditors can be given the ability to do this.
The first of these is cooperation between the Commission and the Member States.
The second area involves improving the EU's methods for paying EU money to the Member States and recovering it from them.
I would like to congratulate the Court of Auditors on its annual report on the implementation of the EU budget concerning the financial year 2008.
I would like to draw attention to the paragraph concerning the European Union agencies, in which the Court of Auditors states that it has issued an unqualified opinion for all the agencies audited, with the exception of the European Police College.
At this stage, it is relevant to recall that we faced a similar situation for the 2007 discharge.
The Court of Auditors has published a report containing a statement of assurance with reservations regarding the accounts and underlying transactions of CEPOL, indicating in particular that appropriations had been used to finance private expenditure.
The rapporteur asked for the discharge to be postponed for CEPOL, followed by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
However, the vote in plenary on 23 April 2009 rejected this proposal by 226 votes for and 230 against, with a massive mobilisation of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
