Proposals on energy and climate change (debate) The next item is the statement by José Manuel Barroso, President of the Commission, on the proposals on energy and climate change.
This package on climate action and renewable energy meets the challenges of the future.
It was agreed in the European Council, following a Commission proposal, to bring about the '20/20/20 by 2020' goals: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases, or 30% if other developed economies agree, 20% of energy use through renewables and a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020.
The clear commitment of this Parliament to this cause has been essential, and I want to thank you, once again, for all your support.
We have to put our proposals in such a way that we bring others along with us.
As you know, this 10% target was unanimously agreed by the European Council.
I want to be clear that, in putting forward proposals on biofuels, we have also fully respected the other side of the mandate: the need for environmental sustainability.
It is important to understand that what we are promoting is sustainable biofuels and we are making a contribution to a global regime, because what we have today is a situation where, in many cases, biofuels are not sustainable and do not respond to our criteria - criteria we want to be implemented not only in Europe but throughout the world.
Fourth, the proposals had to be designed to promote a comprehensive international agreement to cut greenhouse emissions, including stepping up our own effort to 30% emission cuts should other developed countries do the same.
There is a cost, but the cost is manageable.
We have, therefore, designed the proposals to ensure that the demands on the poorer Member States are realistic: all will contribute, but in line with their capacity to invest.
At the level of business, we all know that there are sectors where the cost of cutting emissions could have a real impact on competitiveness with companies in countries that do nothing - or do very little - in the fight against climate change.
I am making this point specifically, because it is very important that this package and the measures that the European Union will adopt are not in favour of the environment and against the economy.
No, they are not only for the environment and our planet but also for our economy and for the competitiveness of the European economy.
We do not want to export our jobs to other parts of the world. (Applause) Fairness is also important at the level of the citizen.
We must seize this chance.
If some people in Europe have doubts about the need for a European Union, then these are exactly the kinds of policy that show why we need a strong European Union more than ever. (Applause) This is precisely where we can demonstrate to the most sceptical that, alone, our Member States - even the biggest Member States - do not have the scale or the leverage to push the agenda forward.
It is also a great argument to show not only that we need a strong European Union, but also that the world needs a strong European Union to lead the global efforts to face the global challenges of the 21st century. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today is an historic day.
Without wishing to denigrate its other merits, this Commission will undoubtedly be remembered in the future as the Commission that enhanced European integration with a new dimension, as the Commission that established the package on climate and energy.
The measures already taken and industrial capacity for future innovation must also be taken into account.
The PPE-DE Group's final assessment must deliver a win-win situation.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, may I express my warm thanks to the President of the Commission and to the Commission for the work they have done.
That idea has already received some consideration in the Council and the Commission.
California's scientists warned us 30 years ago about climate change.
We can no longer prevent it, but we can hope and strive to control it.
My group argues they can add to profits and to jobs and give our economy a new competitive edge.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, we have been waiting for some time to see the benefits of this legislative package.
Maybe targets will be laid down for a reduction in CO2 and an increase in renewable energy.
I was often proud of you, Mr Dimas.
If clean coal remains dominant and a covert campaign is waged for nuclear power, if the main focus is on biofuels rather than a different transport policy, if energy efficiency - the priority of priorities, Mr Piebalgs - is increasingly neglected, we shall remain helpless in the face of climate change. (Applause) The onslaughts mounted by European industry against the proposals are intolerable.
The free market will not solve the problem.
I look forward to cooperating closely with you, Mr Dimas. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's decision to come and present its proposals to this House is significant.
However, for this very reason I wish to say, with all sincerity, that I have my doubts about some aspects of these proposals and cannot endorse them.
Finally, I refer to the waivers on emission limits for polluting countries or sectors such as iron and steel.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, this is an important day for environmental and energy policy.
I also note with interest the proposed directive on carbon capture and storage.
We must stand firm and ensure that the legislative frameworks ensure responsibility and justice in everything and for everyone, but particularly with regard to the environment. (SK) Thank you, Madam President, Mr Barroso, and Commissioners Dimas and Piebalgs for the proposal you have presented.
The Bali Conference in December last year laid the foundations for an international agreement on tackling climate change issues.
The Bali Action Plan, the Bali Roadmap and the Adaptation Fund are challenges where the European Union must take the lead.
China and India should receive a specifically set compensation for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Thank you again. (DE) Madam President, Mr Barroso, you will be aware that I am very attached to the economy, the environment and our common policy.
You went a little further today in developing the vision outlined by Angela Merkel and the Heads of State or Government.
We should take it as an opportunity, an opportunity for our environment, for our industry and, in particular, for future generations. (Applause) (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would emphasise the significance of the fact that you, Mr President, decided to come and inform us in real time about the adoption of the package that has been so painstakingly put together; one might even say made to measure.
On the whole, it seems to me that the set of proposals corresponds to the principles and objectives suggested by both Parliament and the Council in recent months.
I agree with his verdict on Bali.
This legislative period has entered its final phase, rather as CO2 emissions should do in 2015, when they ought to peak before starting to fall, that is.
I agree that this can be wisely managed - a win-win situation, where we can create a better environment, better opportunities for our children and more jobs in Europe.
This will be delivered, I think, in the parliamentary procedure in a very transparent and open way, as it is in Parliament.
I would stress that Europe's role as world leader in the struggle against climate change is unquestioned and unquestionable.
Madam President, this Parliament has a vision of 21 different renewable energy technologies for the 21st century.
With what the Commission is proposing today, we are taking a first step - 20% in 2020 - towards a Europe which will be run almost entirely and exclusively by renewables at the end of this century.
We, as Greens, are in favour of protecting European industry against environmental dumping, but, Mr Barroso, there is a contradiction in what you have announced.
In the billions of years of earth's existence, a very brief pause to check the facts is surely not too much to ask. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that the target to reduce the European production of CO2 emissions by one fifth in the next 12 years is an unattainable dream.
Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate the Commission and its President on the presentation and the proposal here and to welcome it.
If we are to be a competitive economy in the future, we need to have competitive energy sources, and that also goes for the renewables.
We need to have competition between different renewables, not a regulated economy with subsidies for different renewables.
I must say on that point I feel a little bit uncomfortable because, maybe, some countries are getting away a little bit too easily.
Thirdly, this is about renewables, but I would still like to underline the importance of nuclear power, not because I look upon nuclear power as one of the renewables, but it is my belief that, if we are to take full advantage and make full use of renewables, we must not get into a situation where the phasing-out of nuclear power consumes the achievements we can make in the fight against carbon dioxide emissions.
There are fine judgments to be made on many of these issues, but I know we are all working together towards a common purpose.
It is particularly ironic that states who have already achieved a great deal in this area are being given additional ambitious tasks.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on the good result achieved today. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the presentation of this energy and climate change package.
I am in possession of an open letter sent to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and signed by 100 distinguished scientists from across the world.
I welcome the Commission's efforts as regards both international cooperation and internal legislation.
The Commission can always count on the support of Parliament in this regard.
I ask you, how will it be possible to achieve the goals set by the Commission if the Commission itself [...] (FI) Madam President, Members of the Commission, despite the speeches of a few sceptics, we do have time to put our decision of March into practice.
I think we have to invest in the sectors that will win.
I do hope that we will also be able to demonstrate a strong commitment so that our solutions for biofuels give a strong signal and incentive for us to develop truly durable products to replace the current fuels. (IT) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I fully endorse the thrust of what Mr Barroso has told us today about the Commission's proposal.
The proposed targets, and in particular the 20% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020, are achievable in spite of the many difficulties to be overcome.
However, a joint commitment by all countries will be required for an energy policy capable of tackling the emergency that is climate change and freeing Europe at long last from its dependency on imports and, consequently, from continuous rises in energy prices.
I also believe that it will be a new major step in increasing the role of Europe in the fight against climate change.
I should like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the Commission has taken into account the position of countries like mine, Bulgaria, especially as far as trade outside the Emissions Trading Scheme is concerned and with regard to specifying targets for renewables.
As far as competitiveness is concerned, however, a lot has to be done in order to make the Commission's proposals more precise and, in the absence of a possible future agreement, we should be very careful regarding countries like Bulgaria and the energy mix, so that the possibilities for further developing energy and industry are preserved on the basis of achievable targets and at an achievable price. (DE) Madam President, may I express my thanks to the President of the Commission for making it crystal-clear in his introductory words that the cost of inactivity or insufficient activity on the part of the EU and its Member States would be at least five times that of the package presented here today.
As one who works in the field of development policy, I should also like to say that I keenly await the Commission's proposals as to how more projects in the framework of the Clean Development Mechanism can be taken to the poorest countries of our planet, for we all know that the poorest countries suffer most from the effects of climate change. (FR) Madam President, President Barroso has set us an ambitious target for the production of renewable energy, with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions without hindering our prospects of growth.
I believe that the overall emission reduction effort of each Member State by 2020 should be determined on the basis of the starting level of emissions per inhabitant, without prejudice, of course to the solidarity mechanisms between states.
I think it is timely to remind those, especially in my own country, who are rightly exercised about global warming, climate change and greenhouse gas emission increases and who have concerns, on the other hand, about ratifying the Lisbon Treaty - or the Reform Treaty, as we underline - that the environment and climate change are specifically included in the Lisbon Treaty as distinct from the past Constitutional Treaty: a most important point to underline.
Following Bali, it is clear that Europe, as a Union of 27 Member States, has the capacity and the ability to lead the world on this most critical of issues - climate change - with this package at its centre.
Bali produced a road map for global agreement by 2009, recognising the urgency for clear and transparent international agreements - I have borrowed President Barroso's words - to ensure at least a 50% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
President of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Members for the general line of strong support for our proposals.
We were asked to come here immediately after our meeting, so we cannot yet have an in-depth discussion, but let me tell you that the Commission would be happy to participate actively in such a debate - myself, Commissioner Dimas, Commissioner Piebalgs and the other relevant Commissioners.
It is important to understand that the proposals are the ones adopted today by the College.
The work was done over months - it is a very complex issue.
I think the fact that we have one more month to build a strong consensus in the Commission helps us gain time for the adoption, hopefully in this Parliament, of the whole package.
I think it is possible that this Parliament, during this term, will achieve a very strong consensus around a very ambitious set of proposals.
Let me just make a final comment about this.
One is the question of balance between ecological commitment and the need to reduce our greenhouse gases and, at the same time, the need to address fears that exist in some parts of our industry regarding some effects on international competition.
Yes, there will be some measures to cushion the impact of this factor in some of our industries, because we want, of course, to protect the economy of Europe and we want to protect our jobs in Europe.
Some of you were concerned about the need for more investment in technology.
Sometimes, when discussing climate change, I remember what John Stuart Mill said about his father.
Let us hope our Member States and some of our national politicians are not like that.
We are applying general rules and principles and instruments to 27 very different situations, in terms not only of economic development but also of energy mix, the history of those countries and the culture of awareness of some of these problems.
It is important that the European Union should continue to play a leading role in combating climate change, and for this reason we must make a serious commitment to achieving the goal of '20/20/20 by 2020' (a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, 20% energy savings and 20% of renewable energies).
in writing. - Today's debate creates a new favourable environment to encourage a wider social debate on the role nuclear energy will play in Europe in the future.
in writing. - Renewable energies can, in principle, offer a solution to global climate change and Europe's energy crisis.
Concerning the Commission's project of launching 12 new coal and gas power plants equipped with CO2 capture and storage technology, I would like to reiterate Romania's willingness to host such a power plant.
in writing. - (PL) The problem of climate change and combating the degradation of the natural environment rose to the top of the European Union's agenda in 2007.
The European Commission's proposals are a concrete expression of the ambitious aims outlined in March of last year.
They reflect the leading role assumed by our Community of 27 nations as regards limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
In a very short period of time the countries of Central and Eastern Europe underwent a dramatic transformation in this regard.
in writing. - (EL) The presentation of the Council's measures to combat climate change by Mr Barroso, President of the Commission, has the following aim and vision: to strengthen European monopolies in the intensified endo-imperialist competition in the field of energy.
In addition, the Kyoto Protocol created a new capitalist market in emissions trading.
in writing. - (RO) EU Member States are facing the challenges posed by climate change, increased dependence on energy imports, and the high price of energy.
Therefore, the European Union's commitment to decreasing greenhouse emissions by at least 20 per cent by 2020, particularly through measures in the energy sector, is a major step in combating global warming.
Union policy on energy aims, in a spirit of solidarity between Member States, to ensure security of energy supply in the Union.
Experts have perceived a threat in South Stream to the Nabucco project, which is included in the EU Trans-European Energy Network.
in writing. - (RO) We welcome the President's initiative of coming to the European Parliament to present proposals concerning energy and climate change.
The European Union should include the issue of climate change in all of its agreements, be they bilateral or multilateral.
The sustainable development of transport can help to abate climate change.
Member States should opt for the energy mix that causes the least pollution possible.
