Madagascar The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Madagascar.
Madam President, as can be seen from the resolution itself, after two months of violent clashes, Andry Rajoelina, former mayor of the capital of Madagascar, staged a coup d'état on 17 March of this year; he was supported by the army and a self-proclaimed 'High Authority of Transition', over which he presides, and he suspended the national assembly and the senate.
We ask, too, that legal and constitutional systems be immediately re-established in the country and we call on all Malagasy parties to fully comply with the provisions of the constitution of Madagascar in order to overcome this crisis.
We welcome the fact that the UN has appealed for nearly USD 36 million worth of humanitarian aid, anticipating the food shortages that will result later this year from the current political events in Madagascar, but we strongly condemn the coup d'état and all attempts to seize power by undemocratic means.
We are simply asking for a 'back-to-basics' approach with, where necessary, arbitration by the Malagasy people through consultation in the form of a presidential election or a referendum.
Madam President, the political crisis in Madagascar has led to an unconstitutional change of government.
This was accompanied by unrest, in which over 130 people lost their lives.
Madagascar was under French rule until 1960.
President Ravalomanana lost support, and he stood down on 17 March 2009.
We call for restoration of constitutional order in Madagascar.
On 17 March 2009, the day following capture of the Presidential Palace by the army, Andry Rajoelina declared himself head of state.
Doubts have been raised about this, if only because there is a clause in the organic statute which says that to be president a person must be at least 40 years of age, and the new president is only 34.
The situation in that country after the forced removal of President Ravalomanana on 17 March deserves and requires our full attention and, like the European Parliament, the Commission is following events very closely.
The Commission has fully endorsed the Czech Presidency statement issued on behalf of the European Union on 20 March condemning the transfer of power and calling on the Malagasy parties to comply fully with the provisions of the Constitution of Madagascar.
The Commission considers that there has been a flagrant violation of essential elements of the Cotonou Agreement and that this is a 'case of special urgency' within the meaning of Article 96 of that Agreement.
To that end, it is enhancing the political dialogue, based on Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement, with all the relevant stakeholders in Madagascar.
