G20 Summit in Pittsburgh (24-25 September) (debate) The next item is the comments of the Council and the Commission on the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh, to be held on 24-25 September 2009.
The Presidency and the Commission will jointly represent the EU at the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh on 24-25 September.
The overall support to the EU economy this year and next year is estimated at 5% of GDP.
The G20 has played, and will continue to play, a central part in this.
The G20 will also work with the international financial institutions of the IMF and the World Bank to guarantee that they have sufficient resources and a well-functioning internal organisation so as to be able to support economic growth and ensure financial stability throughout the world.
The G20 process has had the following significant results: Firstly, that we have a common analysis of the problems that have affected our economies.
We have also undertaken to improve the ability of the international financial institutions to give warning in good time should similar problems arise in the future.
One issue that has been raised in strong terms by a number of European finance ministers is the question of the part played by bonus systems in financial stability.
The Financial Stability Board has been asked to report to the Pittsburgh Summit regarding its work on developing principles for bonus systems.
Discussions concerning reform of financial institutions will continue tomorrow and in Pittsburgh, but also during the rest of the year.
The European Union has played an active and decisive role in encouraging the G20 in this respect.
Based on the most recent information available, these discretionary fiscal stimuli, together with the action of the automatic stabilisers, which are very important in the European countries due to the weight of our taxes and social welfare system, are predicted to add, as a contribution to total demand, the equivalent of 5.5% of EU GDP between 2009 and 2010.
For the first time in two years, these forecasts have not revised the previous forecast downwards.
From prudential accounting rules, applicable to financial institutions, to the firm requirement for transparency in non-cooperative jurisdictions, namely tax havens, and including the regulation of hedge funds or other financial institutions, the organisation of transparent derivative markets, and the adoption of rules on the pay of senior executives of financial institutions and traders operating on the markets, the London G20 Summit took definitive steps towards fulfilling the promise of reform.
It must be said that the European Union is totally united on this point.
That is why the G20 in Pittsburgh is so important, though the European Union itself should, of course, take vigorous action.
Mr President, the G20 Summit is an important summit where it is more than vision that will be needed - I am happy that you have said so too.
You, the European Union, all of us together, must play a pioneering role in this regard, and it is therefore important that you get the Member States to pull together.
In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the gap between the rather encouraging figures in the financial sector and the terrible unemployment figures in the European Union.
To conclude, I would like to thank Commissioner Almunia for saying that he was in favour of the European Union as a body adopting positions in international institutions, thus defending the Community method.
A global financial system needs transparency.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, thank you for the speeches we have had this morning.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how can the people have faith in financial market regulation when it is entrusted to the high priests of the global financial temples such as Mario Draghi?
As far as a global transaction tax is concerned, the Tobin tax group was set up here in the European Parliament back in 1999.
We need new or different structures, priorities and bases for valuation in order to build up a global economy and a financial, social and judicial order in the world.
There are three conditions for this: firstly, we need to develop a democratic, parliamentary legitimisation process; secondly, we need more EU in Europe and more Europe in the world, which also means that the values of our Charter of Fundamental Rights are our export articles, that our model of a responsible eco-social market economy is the basis for our global order and, thirdly, European regulation is needed in areas in which no agreement is in sight within the framework of the G20.
We need to remove the procyclic effects of the crisis and the current regulations for 2009 and 2010.
My final observation is that, when we look at the employment picture, I think that from the start, our G20 meetings have fallen short when it comes to tackling the macroeconomic question, the question of a global pact for employment, and the question of a return to a strategy which, tomorrow, will enable us to correct the global imbalances that caused this crisis. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fast and decisive reaction of the G20 to the global financial crisis.
The motto must be: no financial market players, no financial products and no financial centre with no supervision in future.
We must devote ourselves to overcoming poverty and hunger in the world and the G20 Summit must give new momentum to this.
However, we must keep in mind that there were large deficits in the external trade between countries that led to this crisis, as well as other internal fiscal deficits.
Close international cooperation is necessary, and this is exactly what we expect of the G20.
The international framework for regulating the financial sector must be completed, so that it can aid investment, growth and employment.
The strengthening of global financial institutions is likewise an imperative, as is the reform of governance and representation at the IMF.
Commissioner, these are some of the expectations citizens have of the next G20, where Europe must speak with one voice, with determination and conviction. (ES) Commissioner Almunia, Mrs Malmström, I would ask you not to forget in Pittsburgh that we are experiencing not only a financial and economic crisis of unprecedented dimensions, but also a huge social crisis with devastating effects on those most in need, on those who only have their job, on small entrepreneurs, and on the most disadvantaged regions and countries.
I have here the letter of 3 September from the three European Prime Ministers.
I think this is what we must take to the G20 but I do not agree that we should use all our capital to focus on bankers' bonuses.
It is therefore urgent and absolutely essential to put in place the necessary regulations and supervision of the financial sector and the banks, to prevent an even more drastic repeat of today's crisis.
The financial system must once again serve the real economy and not continue to destroy it.
In view of this situation, and so that the Pittsburgh G20 Summit really is useful, the European Union must defend strong regulatory measures that have real consequences.
My second question is: what is the position of the Commission and the Council on the Chinese proposal to put in place a slightly different international currency, in an effort to regulate the financial system using an alternative to the dollar?
Our economies are still very fragile.
The banks are also able to amend unilaterally their agreements, thereby putting in a vulnerable position citizens who have taken out foreign currency loans in the hope of buying their own flat.
We must work together on sensible rules to win over our G20 partners. (HU) There is a clear message from what has been said so far, namely, that in order to regain the trust of ordinary citizens, we must take action against bonuses and tax havens.
I would like to ask Commissioner Almunia and Mrs Malmström about when the European financial supervisory authority proposed by the Hungarian Prime Minister will come into operation.
Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who have contributed to this debate.
Otherwise, there is a risk that the measures that we have taken will have negative effects on unemployment and growth in particular, and will result in deficits and inflation.
In summary, naturally the G20 Summit cannot solve all the problems that we have discussed.
We must continue to pay attention to the problems of the financial system - more capital, restructuring and correction of bank balance sheets - at both the European and global levels.
The financial sector needs to have rules making bonuses dependent not on short-term profits, but on long-term returns on investments.
