The next item is the joint debate on: the Council statement on the results of the Swedish Presidency; the European Council report and Commission statement on the outcome of the European Council on 10 and 11 December 2009.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am grateful for this opportunity to address the European Parliament once again and at such a crucial time.
As we speak, representatives from 193 countries are gathered in a conference centre in Copenhagen, talking, arguing, negotiating and trying to meet the expectations of millions of people around the world.
Soon we will be looking back at a meeting that was crucial, not only for the EU but for the world; a meeting that was decisive for those who cannot grow their crops because of a lack of water, decisive for those who have lost their homes in tornadoes or floods, and decisive for those who are vainly building walls against a sea level that rises every year.
The fight against climate change has been at the top of the agenda throughout the Swedish Presidency, at all our European Council meetings and in all our summits with the Union's major partners.
We agreed on a long-term goal for emissions reductions of 80-95% by 2050 and we renewed our offer to reduce emissions - 30%, provided that others make comparable efforts.
Therefore I must say that, while I am satisfied that the European Council could agree to this step, the time is now ripe for other developed countries to join us.
So, what do we need to do in Copenhagen?
We need binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not just from the developed countries, but also from developing countries, to ensure that global warming keeps below the 2 °C target that science tells us is necessary.
That is why we must work together to solve the problem.
It is not the form that matters in Copenhagen but the substance.
We can be satisfied if we get a deal on emissions reductions and on financing, and a commitment to start immediate action and, more importantly, we can start fighting climate change.
Last year, we were suddenly faced with the most serious financial crisis since the 1930s.
The ground was literally shaking under our feet.
I am pleased that the EU managed to convince the G20 to agree on far-reaching changes to this policy.
The economic and financial crisis hit us hard but we have shown the ability to act and we have strengthened our resistance.
When we took over on 1 July, this Parliament was newly elected.
The outcome of the then pending Irish referendum was uncertain.
It was not clear whether the Treaty of Lisbon would be ratified by all Member States.
It was not even clear whether it could enter into force during the Swedish Presidency.
The Presidency now had a stable counterpart in the Commission to work with.
We had to handle these requests in a way that did not trigger similar conditions from other Member States and we managed to do this at the European Council in October.
A few days later, the Czech President signed.
The new President of the European Council will ensure continuity.
The High Representative will assure coordination in our external relations.
A new era for the European Union has begun.
When I stood here before you on 15 July, we were still in the throes of the financial and economic crisis.
There was uncertainty on the transition of the new treaty.
With the European Council meeting last week, the Swedish Presidency has delivered on all five of its priorities: a strong EU mandate for climate change; follow-up of the economic and financial crisis; the EU Baltic Sea Strategy; the Stockholm Programme for justice and home affairs; reinforcing the EU as a global actor, including enlargement, and a new external action service.
As I said, with the Treaty of Lisbon in place, a new era has begun in the European Union.
I would also like to thank the Commission, and especially José Manuel Barroso.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, Prime Minister, during the past six months, we have seen a new treaty come into force, ending almost a decade of debate and opening the door to new opportunities for this new, enlarged European Union we have today.
And as we enter the end game in Copenhagen, we can be clear that the European Union has been working hard to maintain the momentum it has championed towards decisive global action on climate change.
I would therefore like to pay a very sincere tribute to Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and all the team of the Swedish Presidency for a highly successful presidency.
It is particularly important that the Swedish Presidency has been so effective in ensuring the completion of the ratification process of the Lisbon Treaty, managing the transition to this new treaty while achieving all the other objectives.
We have seen the appointment of the first President of the European Council and of the first High Representative, the Vice-President of the Commission, by the European Council.
And let us not forget - because it was a very important moment for this Parliament, following the unanimous designation by the European Council - we have seen the election by this Parliament of the President of the next Commission with a qualified majority.
It was also the first time that the new High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, Catherine Ashton, has attended.
The new President of the European Council will be fully functioning by 1 January 2010 and has presented his ideas on how to organise the European Council in the future.
I would like to highlight just some, not forgetting one very important one, the definition of the Baltic Strategy, which can be a model for other regional cooperation inside the European Union and with some of our partners.
The European Council had a particular significance for climate change.
In the past few years, the European Union has developed a consistent and ambitious approach on climate change.
The developed world must act, but it must also help the developing world to decouple growth and emissions.
I think that it is right that the European Council last week centred on how we can put this global leadership at the service of an ambitious deal at Copenhagen: by promising help to developing countries not in some distant future but already next year; by making clear that the deal must be comprehensive and must have the verification mechanisms to make it stick; by maintaining our readiness to up our targets, but only if others put ambitious commitments on the table as well.
I think the European Council achieved very important results, namely on two matters.
The European Council also reiterated its commitment for medium-term financing, to ensure it gives the fair contribution that is necessary for 2020.
We should now be getting the benefits from the investment we have made as the pioneers in this agenda.
This is why I am going to Copenhagen immediately after this debate.
If that deal includes real commitment to cut emissions from both developed and developing countries; a clear commitment on financing to make this happen; and an agreement on how this is to be applied and verified - if this agreement includes the different elements of the Bali road map and can be seen to be in the right ball park to respect the 2 °C limit, then I think we will say rightly that it will be a major achievement.
We are not there yet, but I believe it is possible to reach that agreement.
The next few days will show whether the ambitions we have discussed in this Parliament so often are going to be realised, but I sense already that there is a compelling need for change and that we need to make this success in Copenhagen.
I believe last week's European Council left the European Union ready to meet the challenge.
It also identifies with the latest proposals by the European Council, whether on climate change, the crisis or the creation of a Europe of security, of a Europe that protects.
Honest management, because, at a time when so many of our friends, neighbours and relatives are being hit by the crisis because they have lost their jobs or their jobs are still under threat, Europe has not made false promises to them.
Responsible management, because, on climate change, on security, but also on employment and the economy, Europe is implementing the social market economy model.
Mr Reinfeldt, Mr Barroso, on climate change, too, Europe is showing a sense of responsibility.
To conclude, the PPE Group supports the Council's guidelines on security under the new Stockholm Programme.
You have worked hard over the last six months; it was not easy, as we all know.
I would like to begin with the institutional problems that this treaty has created.
Mr Van Rompuy, the rotating Council Presidency, then the President of the Commission, then Baroness Ashton - if they all speak then at least, for the first time, for the first four speeches we will not have this permanent PPE conference, and we will then have Baroness Ashton and hence a proper socialist, who will stir things up.
However, more power for the European Parliament also means that the other institutions will have to deal with Parliament.
For the President of the European Council, this means that he will have to coordinate decisions that he wishes to prepare in the Council - legislative decisions at least - with Parliament.
He would be wise not to view the President of the European Parliament as a spectator at the Council meetings, but as the representative of an institution that has been given greater power.
The Swedish Presidency has put in a lot of effort.
Mr President, firstly, I will not be talking this morning about institutional matters, as others before me have done.
I believe that we in the European Parliament will nonetheless have a few ideas on this subject to ensure that we make progress with European democracy and that we compensate for the lack of transparency and democracy in the cooptations being proposed.
However, for you, Mr Reinfeldt, the Presidency does not end here of course, since there is still the Copenhagen Summit, where you must gain some ground.
I believe that we must follow a strategy whereby we try to establish three-way cooperation between the United States, China and Europe.
If, in the next two days, these three reach an initial agreement, then we will have a serious basis on which to convince the others - India, Brazil and the other countries - to join in this effort.
I therefore call for a proactive approach.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Reinfeldt, after having spent four days in Copenhagen, I find it extremely difficult to listen to the words 'leading role of the European Union'.
At the same time, we Europeans have opened all the back doors in order to avoid a reduction policy at home.
The inclusion of forests, which you and your government in particular have been promoting, Mr Reinfeldt, is another contribution from Europe to avoiding having an active reduction policy.
It has been assessed by many experts in Copenhagen that what you, yourselves, have so far proposed as being the best we can do would not result in emissions in Europe falling by 2020, but rising.
To make matters worse, a German newspaper, the Financial Times, announced today that you have given up on the 30% target for 2020 and now want to offer this for 2025 instead.
These are people who have been working extremely hard for climate policy for years, some of them for decades.
As has been said, the Swedish Presidency came at a difficult period of transition and turbulence associated with adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon.
That is behind us now, but the presidency also came at a time of economic crisis.
I would like to begin my speech, which is not going to be all complimentary, by thanking you that the Swedish Presidency avoided the temptation of populism, so easy to fall into, in these difficult times of crisis.
The Swedish Presidency has shown that in times of crisis, the European Union is able to look for good and non-populist solutions which can help not only Europe, but the whole world, to get out of this difficult situation.
I think the last six months have been lacking in unequivocal support for our main ally in the Middle East, Israel.
Evidence of this is the outcome of the last European Council concerning the Middle East, which, although it is, in my opinion, better than what was proposed, does not give us a leading role in the Middle East.
The European Union should be leading the peace process, and should be the main force striving for peace in the Middle East.
If we want to play this role, we must overcome our own differences.
The last six months of foreign policy have, unfortunately, not put a stop to this.
I think that rising Russian imperialism is one of the European Union's most serious problems.
Nevertheless, I would like to thank you, Mr Reinfeldt, for your leadership and for the Swedish leadership of the European Union.
The role of Parliament is to draw attention to that which is not always, in our opinion, the best.
Mr President, my colleague, Mrs Svensson, will speak on the subject of the Swedish Presidency.
I would like to highlight two points from the conclusions of the first summit following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Firstly, I regret the fact that the European Council did not communicate any clear messages with regard to the future strategy of the EU.
With the new Commission, the new Parliament and the President of the European Council, however, there would now be a chance to start a totally new debate.
That needs to become the new basic principle of the European Union's strategies and legislation, as only then will the citizens perceive the EU as representing progress in the long term.
In yesterday's debate, we were pleased to hear Mr Barroso promise that the new Commission under his leadership would table the relevant proposals in the near future.
We will continue to bring this subject up and we remain of the opinion that the European Union can and must take the first step in cases of doubt.
This is evidently a problem that concerns all of Europe, but there is one point on which the government of my country expressed a clear request, which was nonetheless disregarded.
It is precisely on this point that we could have done with a much greater degree of clarity, a more clear-cut line of action by the Swedish Presidency.
On the contrary, the European Union should learn from Swiss democracy how to tackle the most sensitive problems, by giving a voice to the people, the people, the people, not the bureaucracies, the lobbies and the banks of this European superpower, which always makes decisions about citizens' lives without consulting them! (SV) Mr President, I am glad that the spineless, cowardly Swedish Presidency is over. (NL) Thankfully, this weak Swedish Presidency has come to an end, as not much good has come out of Sweden.
Sweden has left Israel in the lurch, and its proposal to divide Jerusalem illustrates its naivety about the objectionable, barbarous ideology that is Islam.
Then you go squandering money on climate policy in Copenhagen even though climate change is not a scientific certainty.
Its net contribution per capita is still two to three times that of other rich countries.
I would like to remind you that we from small countries, as newly elected Members, have only one strict minute for 'catch the eye', and this time has been taken away from our opportunity to express our views.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I have two brief remarks to make.
We now have a new European Union based on the Lisbon Treaty, and I could say, being involved in the rotating presidency, that, to make this Europe work for the future, it will be a combination of taking responsibility on the part of Member States, the Commission and this Parliament.
Just a few comments on trying to coordinate 27 Member States.
I know how much time you need to make this coordination, and I think that will be obvious also for Herman Van Rompuy and also the still ongoing rotating presidency.
Also, when it comes to Copenhagen, I think it is very important to remember that we need to keep the 2 °C target.
Of course, it is troublesome that some other countries are going in the other direction, and they are getting criticised for that.
In fact, if there is a field where we can be proud of the leadership role of the European Union, it is precisely on climate change.
The European Union has announced its intentions through legislation which is already binding: legislation which originated from the European Commission, which received the support of the European Council and of this Parliament, and - unilaterally and unconditionally - the European Union has already put the reduction of greenhouse gases at 20% by 2020.
So let us ask others to do something similar to our effort. (Applause) Is this enough to reach the 2 °C?
No, it is not enough.
So let us have a global deal which allows us to reach an agreement compatible with what science tells us.
During these six months, together with Prime Minister Reinfeldt, we spoke with Obama; we spoke with Hu and Wen; we spoke with Singh; we spoke with Medvedev; we spoke with Lola.
But I would like to say to Prime Minster Reinfeldt that he was the 11th in the order of working with the Commission, but certainly he deserves a place on the podium as one of the best presidencies we have had during this period for the European Union.
First of all, of course, the treaty that is now in place is changing the institutional balance of this Union, but it is also making it more capable of achieving our political goals.
I think it is also important to point to the fact that, during this Presidency and while we are standing here, the European Union is, for the first time, a leading global actor in one of the most important international issues mankind is facing.
This is new and it gives great responsibilities for the future because it is obvious that, whatever is achieved in Copenhagen, the European Union has been playing a fundamental and crucial role in setting the agenda for the things that we should achieve.
But we should, in all modesty, also remember that those achievements give us a great responsibility for the future. (SV) Mr President, I want to start by saying that the Presidency has lived up to the high expectations placed on it as an efficient, diplomatic machine.
The concluding rounds relating to the Treaty of Lisbon were also dealt with in a very positive way.
Finally, the Presidency also succeeded in introducing the permanent President of the European Council and the new High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
Unfortunately, its direct political impact on people's everyday lives has been somewhat less substantial.
The fact that Sweden does not have a more significant role at the climate conference currently taking place in Copenhagen, however, is more likely to be due to Prime Minister Reinfeldt himself, for party political reasons, having played down expectations of the conference at an early stage.
More serious than this, however, is the fact that it undermined the opportunity to bring about a good agreement on climate change.
We have great expectations that Mrs Malmström will do her utmost to reinforce these elements further in her new role. (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Reinfeldt, your calm and steady Presidency was a success.
Firstly, you increased the development towards making the European Council into a kind of EU 'supergovernment'.
The second reason is this: the fact that you pushed SWIFT through the Council just hours before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon demonstrates a clear disregard for the European Parliament and hence a lack of respect for the citizens.
Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the last six months. (SV) Mr President, the Swedish Presidency has functioned well in practical and institutional terms.
They are obstructing our work on climate change.
Yet our global trading position, relative economic weight and international competitiveness are in jeopardy.
Part of this economic regeneration will be the greening of our economies, and we all hope that an agreement in Copenhagen this week will draw up a realistic framework to tackle climate change whilst facilitating economic growth and development.
We must therefore balance the need for joint action with respect for the rights of our Member States.
Two areas in particular must come in for criticism.
Firstly, the matter of transparency and openness.
The second area is climate change and, in my opinion, the way that poor countries are being betrayed by our use of aid funds to mitigate the worst of the damage for which the rich world has been, and still is, responsible.
This despite the fact that the climate convention, the Bali Plan and the Kyoto Protocol all state that funding to finance climate measures must be new funding.
If we are already holding a climate summit, then, in my opinion, we also need, at long last, a truer reflection of costs and some honesty in the debate about nuclear reactors.
If we are looking for climate protection solutions, we also need to put a stop to the deception surrounding emissions certificates.
As a result of this and of the Stockholm Programme, citizens are becoming ever easier to manipulate and ever more transparent.
In my view, it is time to stop the accession negotiations and offer Turkey a privileged partnership. (DE) Mr President, first of all, I would like to say thank you.
Sweden is a medium-sized country in the European Union and we should view that as a positive thing in all respects.
I would like to thank you and your entire government, Mr Reinfeldt.
With the climate, the financial market crisis, the Treaty of Lisbon and the new Commission, you have had really difficult tasks and issues to deal with.
I would like to single out two issues.
The first is the financial market crisis.
The fact that, together with the Commission, Sweden remained firm with regard to the consolidation efforts of individual Member States is extremely positive.
The fact that you did not say 'we will now release Greece from its responsibilities within the euro area' is something that I can only wholeheartedly support.
We can pursue climate policy in the style of China or the US by making grand proclamations but not achieving any results.
A treaty is never enough for solving a problem.
Political will is always needed in order to enhance it properly but, in this case, I think that we need even more than will.
Therefore, I hope that, starting with the experience it has accumulated, the Swedish Presidency will still remain involved in supporting the building of the new institution which the Lisbon Treaty has created, namely the permanent - or long-term - President of the European Council and the office of High Representative with the External Action Service.
One of the priorities of the Swedish Presidency was, of course, the management of the economic and financial crisis.
Any ambiguity surrounding the complementary nature of the amount announced by the European Council of 10 and 11 December would undermine the European Union's credibility at the Copenhagen conference, which we have no hesitation in describing as crucial to the future of mankind. (Applause) Mr President, I represent the European Free Alliance part of my group which includes the independence parties of Wales, Flanders, Catalonia and Scotland.
We seek independent status so that our nations can contribute to European Council meetings and to world events such as the Copenhagen conference on climate change.
The government and the parliament of Scotland have adopted the world's most ambitious climate change act, with emission reduction targets of 42% by 2020 and 80% by 2050.
Unfortunately, it was not a presidency of the people, but rather a presidency of the Council and also a large-scale investor presidency in the style of Mrs Wallström rather than that of Mrs Malmström.
Mrs Malmström, I remember you well from the time you were an MEP here.
During this presidency, you have been a rather different person.
Please use your future to return to your roots. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the last two and a half hours of this debate, quite a great deal has been said about Copenhagen and the Copenhagen negotiations.
I must say that, in this respect, the Swedish Presidency has not been entirely successful as there is no common position being presented in Copenhagen for the European Union.
The European Commission criticises this position in an incomprehensible, short-sighted and narrow-minded manner.
Hungary, Poland, Romania and other former socialist countries have fulfilled their Kyoto commitments.
However, the Commission still wants to take this from us.
Firstly, our Parliament, being committed to the introduction of European supervision of the financial markets, welcomed the proposals made by Mr de Larosière's group of wise men as a crucial step.
However, the conclusions of the ECOFIN Council of 2 December are well below this realistic level of ambition.
I wish to mention at this point that Parliament will be sure to restore some balance to the proposals that have been referred to it, in order to make the financial markets more robust.
A number of important proposals have been laboriously pushed through: the Stockholm Programme, future financial supervision and especially the telecoms package.
The climate summit in Copenhagen could also move in the right direction if we in the European Parliament want it to.
The Treaty of Lisbon entered into force on 1 December, and on 30 November, you and your fellow Heads of State or Government rushed through an arrangement giving our bank details to the United States.
This Treaty creates the legal framework for a super state, with the lives of 500 million people being controlled from a central point and the nation states withering away.
The path leading us to this was antidemocratic.
This is why I am confident that history will portray this period as a frustrated attempt to create an empire. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in debates about the Council Presidency, we often talk as if the Presidency was the European Union.
The Council Presidency is not the EU; it is an important manager of a European institution.
The Council Presidency has done a good job over the last six months.
It has helped to open a new chapter in the history of European Union success.
We are working towards a Europe of the citizens and towards greater cooperation between the institutions and the various parts of the European Union.
The institutional debate has been closed, the new posts have been filled and, on a few important points, the Council has moved into a position that will enable us to continue to work.
The Council has more opportunities to influence the European Parliament and the committees of the European Parliament than the European Parliament has to influence the working groups and the Council meetings.
The decision on financial market supervision has still not been finalised.
In the context of the cooperation that is required under the Treaty of Lisbon between the European Commission, Council and Parliament and the national Parliaments of the Member States (Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 295 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), I would like to draw attention to the importance of three points that have been emphasised by the Swedish Presidency.
It is particularly difficult when we need to get 27 Member States and 500 million people across those bridges, making the transition from the old EU to a more open, more transparent and more democratic EU under the new Treaty of Lisbon, with the European Parliament now having a much greater influence.
This autumn, we have had both a climate crisis and a jobs crisis to contend with.
Firstly, immigration: the need to make access to European Union territory more efficient in terms of guaranteeing the safety of its citizens was highlighted.
The second aspect that I consider to be a priority, at this time of economic crisis, when we still cannot see the light at the end of the tunnel, is the relaunch of the Lisbon Strategy.
I still feel that we must do more in this direction: the family, people and intermediate groups must be at the centre of Europe's economic recovery.
I would, however, like to speak a bit longer on three points regarding the subject of finance.
Second, in order to control the financial crisis, the European Union and its Member States have implemented a large number of exceptional measures, which is very positive.
At the same time, we need to consider the payment of bankers' bonuses, an issue which has become a particularly important topic in Estonia.
I support the necessity of renewing economic and social agreements between financial institutions and the society they serve, and to increase the benefits to society in good times and protect it from dangers. (PT) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Swedish Presidency, particularly Prime Minister Reinfeldt, on behalf of both the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Portuguese delegation within the PPE Group.
Firstly, in the institutional area, the Swedish Presidency's contribution to the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, to the highly successful election of the President of the Commission and to everything associated with ratification was extremely professional and at the level that we expect for best practice in the European Union.
Of course, for a country like Portugal, which played a decisive role in the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Swedish Presidency's contribution was invaluable.
Especially with this latest Council, there has been a step forwards that we regard as decisive and which may have a great impact on our emergence from the crisis.
Lastly, I would like to mention an area that is very important to me personally: the Stockholm Programme and, therefore, the area of freedom, security and justice.
I followed both the Tampere process and subsequently, in particular, the Hague process.
I regard the Stockholm Programme as absolutely essential and would like to congratulate the Swedish Presidency and Prime Minister Reinfeldt on it. (EL) Mr President, the results of the Swedish Presidency are truly positive.
The Swedish Presidency is also characterised by the creation of the Stockholm Programme and the decisions taken during the financial crisis, which are truly important, pivotal points in further developments in this endeavour.
At the same time, the election of the President of the European Commission and the appointments made, all of which are hugely important to developments in the endeavour we are making via the Lisbon Treaty, are especially important and interesting to the European Parliament and are positive and essential elements.
The European Parliament is taking on a new role as a legislative body alongside the European Council.
However, certain essential issues have been relegated to secondary status.
Within the European Union in 2008, there were 515 terrorist attacks in 11 Member States.
The European Union must promote the conclusion of repatriation and readmission agreements with countries such as Morocco, Algeria and Libya.
It seems to me that European supervision in this area is insufficient, and that here we must also influence, as a democratically elected institution, the ethical standards followed by those who supervise banks and financial institutions.
This is an extremely important report for the future of the European Union and the battle against climate change.
It is also significant for the Copenhagen conference, but especially for the 2.7 million jobs which may be created in this sector by 2020.
Bearing in mind that the Treaty of Lisbon creates a new basis both for climate change and a common energy policy, I hope, and we also expect it from the European Commission, President Barroso, that you will present to us a programme of work for the next five years, so that the commissioners we listen to can respond to these challenges as well.
I must apologise to Mr Balčytis and Mr Luhan: I cannot comply with their request because we already have numerous other speakers and we do not have enough time to let everyone speak.
However, you may have missed the opportunity during this period to promote a broader European discourse on a socio-economic model different to the one which led us into this crisis.
Furthermore, since you are concluding the Troika between the French Republic, the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden, what is your view on this instrument and what conclusion do you draw from it? (PL) Mr President, We meet here in Parliament every six months to summarise the achievements of another country as it ends its leadership of the European Union.
The Swedish Presidency will go down in history because its term saw the pushing through of the Euro-constitution, for which some had been agitating for nearly 10 years, and which in its current form is known as the Treaty of Lisbon.
We can never underline enough the historic importance of finally having a vision that meets our citizens' concerns for security and, at the same time, for respecting individual rights.
I thank the Swedish Presidency.
Your footprint will remain with us for five years. (HU) The Swedish Presidency has done an excellent job, and I would like to congratulate the prime minister for this.
This situation resulted from the political mistake made during the enlargement process where the European Union did not declare earlier that the 13 discriminatory Beneš Decrees were morally untenable.
The second major event is that the EU managed to establish a united position for the climate change negotiations.
The US and China have still not realised this fact, but the European Union clearly understands that the future belongs to whoever now leads the way in green economic development.
When it comes to the Copenhagen conference, too, we see that the European Union has an ambitious, very elevated, very proactive and common position.
I would like therefore to endorse its positions and its decisions.
Europe has been a driving force behind the proposal, negotiation and conclusion of major agreements concerning this financial crisis, which affects the whole of Europe.
The European Council also gave its verdict, last week, on the new financial supervisory architecture, and negotiations with the European Parliament have been opened since, from now on, the responsibility for monitoring the implementation of the decisions taken in Pittsburgh will also be shared by the European Parliament.
The financial crisis has revealed the weak points in our financial supervision system.
Last night's announcement from the Council that there will be a 9% cut in nephrops in Area 7A is a bitter blow to the fishing industry in Northern Ireland.
I think that the priority for the Spanish in the next term must be the reform of the common fisheries policy and for decisions like this to be taken at regional level by local, accountable people, and not Brussels bureaucrats. (PL) During the Swedish Presidency, a great deal of good has happened in the Union, in what has been, of course, a difficult period of crisis and expectations concerning acceptance of the Treaty of Lisbon.
If, alongside the permanent President of the European Council, we do not also have the leader of the country which currently has the leadership giving reports here, the Union will be incomplete and will lose some of its diversity.
The countries which lead must still creatively inspire new action, and the permanent President of the European Council will have to ensure coordination, continuity and cohesion of the Union's work.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, coming to the end of this debate, we are also coming to the end of the last presidency on the rotating principle, as has been mentioned.
We were able to put a figure on the table - EUR 2.4 billion annually - between 2010 and 2012.
The importance for us was to say that this is directed to these years, earmarked for 2010 to 2012, and it will also be available for support when it comes to climate protection.
I want to point out that the Member States have agreed that we should commit ourselves to disbursing collectively 0.56% of EU GNI by 2010, that is, already next year, and coming up to the UN percentage level of 0.7 in 2015 when it comes to official development assistance.
Sweden is in a very exclusive club, almost alone at 1% of GNI when it comes to development assistance.
That does not even come close to Cecilia Malmström's number of engagements with Parliament, because she has been here 25 times to speak to you.
In all, the Presidency has addressed Parliament in plenary on 43 occasions during our term in office and we have been in committee on 44 different occasions.
For the first time in history, we experienced, over the last few weeks, new relations as a result of the Lisbon Treaty.
For instance, Mr Severin spoke about economic, social and territorial cohesion, and I want to underline the point he made.
In fact, in the first exchange of views which we had in the European Council on the future European Union 2020 Strategy, it was agreed - see point 18 of the conclusions - that every effort should be made to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as gender equality.
Of course, the emphasis is on competitiveness and the need to respond to the global challenges which we are now facing, but we should do that in conjunction with promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the European Union.
Frankly, some time ago, it would have been inconceivable to have all the Member States agreeing on a text on financial supervision at European level.
I hope the European Parliament will reinforce and rebalance the regulations in these areas in the next negotiating phase.
Coming to the issue of Copenhagen, and let me be clear about this: it was very important that the European Council confirmed the previous commitments saying that we are ready to move to a 30% reduction by 2020, compared to 1990 levels, provided that other developed countries commit themselves to comparable emission reductions and that developing countries contribute adequately according to their responsibilities and respected capabilities.
In fact, during the European Council, I had mentioned the possibility of having some modulation in our offer, namely the possibility of constructing some pathways beyond 2020.
This discussion is not just about 2020; it is for after 2020.
So we should have some flexibility on the pathways that we can define after 2020.
It is in this spirit that we go to Copenhagen not only to achieve the most ambitious agreement but also to have a real global agreement.
President Barroso, thank you once again.
I would like to thank Prime Minister Reinfeldt, Minister Malmström, a former Member of the European Parliament, and the whole of the Swedish Government for their very active cooperation with the European Parliament.
I am sure that the treaty will improve continuity and will strengthen the EU's role in the international arena.
We can already find preliminary answers to these questions today in the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region adopted during the Swedish Presidency.
The strategy of the Stockholm Programme is one of the most important priorities achieved by Sweden.
The six months of the Swedish Presidency under Prime Minister Reinfeldt have been a great success and marked by excellence.
The Swedish Presidency played a crucial role in the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty.
It thus ended almost a decade of debate and institutional stalemate, opening the door to new opportunities for the European Union.
The fight against climate change is a topic that has always been at the top of its agenda.
The EU is a leader in this field, as shown by its ambitious proposal to cut emissions by 80% and 95% by 2050.
The Swedish Presidency has faced the economic crisis and financial turmoil with sound, realistic measures.
Faced with the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, the EU swiftly adopted special support measures.
The work of 'preventing' further crises has also been carried out through a new financial supervisory structure.
It is a fact that it was during the Swedish Presidency that significant institutional changes were made, particularly the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, after that whole process of pressurising and blackmailing the Irish people into changing their vote in the second referendum they had to hold.
However, even for someone who really wants an increasingly neoliberal, militaristic and federalist form of European integration, it is unacceptable that he had not a word to say about the terrible social situation that the European Union is experiencing, which can clearly be seen in the rise of over 5 million unemployed in just one year, so that there are now over 23 million people out of work.
Therefore, during the forthcoming Spanish Presidency, there will be a very interesting debate in Parliament concerning the compromise worked out in December this year.
The next Presidency's task is to ensure that the new structures function effectively.
In this context, every effort should be made to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
The Treaty of Lisbon has strengthened Parliament's role in the European decision-making process and, by extension, the legitimacy of this institution in the eyes of Europe's citizens.
The Stockholm Programme, which was drafted during recent months and voted for at the European Council on 10-11 December, outlines the new reference framework in this area for the 2010-2014 period.
I am referring, in particular, to the extension of the Schengen area to all EU countries, which now becomes a priority for the European Union's internal policy, following the amendments we tabled.
I wish to congratulate the Swedish Presidency for the six months of ambitious work it has carried out in the difficult climate of the economic and financial crisis, the preparations for the Copenhagen Summit and the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon, we finally have the clear institutional framework for tackling all the challenges facing the modern world.
The new treaty enables the EU to firmly assume a pioneering role in the battle against climate change, as well as the status of a global player, not only in relation to the United States and the Russian Federation, but in relation to the emerging countries as well.
In addition, the new permanent President of the Council and High Representative will ensure continuity in the EU's foreign policy activities, which marks progress in consolidating the EU's role on the world stage.
As a result of all these institutional changes, the EU will be more efficient and have available a wider range of methods for resolving the major problems facing the international community, such as combating terrorism, adapting to climate change, ensuring energy security and combating the effects of the economic and financial crisis.
I wish to commend this Stockholm Programme, which will boost the ambitious political efforts to enhance this area by 2014.
However, considerable progress remains to be made, and this mainly in the area of asylum.
With the major institutional changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, we can now look forward to the imminent adoption of more ambitious and higher quality legislative instruments under the forthcoming presidencies.
The Swedish Presidency has signified progress through three major actions: - the election of the EU President and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy after the Treaty of Lisbon came into force; - the adoption of the 'Stockholm Multiannual Programme for the 2010-2014 period'; - the preparation and coordination of the COP 15 negotiations on climate change in Copenhagen.
The 2010 Strategy marks out the direction of the Union's operations and its main priorities for the next 10 years.
In connection with the consultations which are currently under way on the future strategy, I would like to draw attention to two aspects: improvement of the education system in Europe and equality of the sexes in the labour market.
The education system in Europe must change.
We should ensure greater financial support for current EU programmes (Erasmus, Erasmus Mundus, Leonardo da Vinci) and establish new initiatives which will help young people to learn and to gain experience abroad, and will also provide the financial and administrative possibilities necessary to use this support at work in their own country.
When planning the new strategy, we should place special emphasis on raising the proportion of women in employment, for research carried out by Eurostat shows that the crisis has affected working women more than men, among other reasons, because they work in jobs which are much less secure.
Discrimination in the labour market remains a serious problem, and the new strategy must face up to it.
They include the energy efficiency package and the telecoms package, the creation of a prudential financial supervisory body, agreement on the 2010 budget, particularly as regards financing the economic recovery plan, the Baltic Sea strategy and alignment for this week's Copenhagen climate conference.
The Spanish Presidency to begin in 2010 will guide the transition from Nice to Lisbon and will continue the strategy of promoting employment by stimulating and promoting European economies, as well as addressing other major challenges such as financial regulation and climate change.
The Greek Communist Party calls on the working class to organise its counterattack, to condemn the parties of the European one-way street and to participate en masse in the unemployment rally on 17 December being organised by the class forces of the All Workers Militant Front.
