President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) The Council welcomes the interest shown by the European Parliament in the strengthening of the strategic partnership between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean.
The European Union and the Latin American and Caribbean countries have agreed that their summit meeting in Lima, under the title 'Addressing our People's Priorities Together', will focus on two key chapters.
At the same time the Slovenian Presidency has been emphasising that greater investment in education, particularly at elementary and vocational level, is of key importance in improving our countries' competitiveness both in the European Union and in the Latin American and Caribbean countries.
And in conclusion to this introduction, I would like to thank you for your attention.
The Summit is taking place in a very stimulating climate.
The Latin America-Caribbean region is changing very fast.
It must not be forgotten that over 200 million people still live in poverty there.
The main objective of the European Union for the Lima Summit is to consolidate the existing strategic partnership and move it forward in two areas, social cohesion and sustainable development, which will be of crucial importance to our relationship with the region in the immediate future.
As regard the environment and climate change, we want to cooperate more with the region in order to meet this global challenge.
We need to seize the opportunity that is open to us to ratify with our partners the existing relationship between sustainable development and climate change, even if many countries in Latin America still devote very little attention to the problems of climate change, in spite of its negative and sometimes disastrous impact on the region.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, distinguished empty Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 and 17 May the heads of state and government of the European Union and the Latin American countries will meet in Lima.
That will be an opportunity for them to achieve an historic breakthrough in the bi-regional dialogue between Europe and Latin America and develop a new dimension in relations between our two continents.
On almost all the important issues that we debate in this House, the Latin American countries' views dovetail with those of the European Union.
Let us remember that bringing about change by fostering closer relations is always a better approach than the isolation championed by George W.
Of course, José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra is right to say that FARC must release the hostages.
Relations between the European Union and Latin America could be the key to cooperation between two major world regions.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, although relations between the European Union and Latin America could be described as dynamic, our potential for cooperation is nowhere near being fully exploited.
For example, beyond the rhetoric, the truth of the matter is that the context of relations between the EU and Latin America, to date at least, has produced little success in terms of regional integration or in reducing poverty levels there.
Firstly, we must bear in mind that not only should association agreements between the EU and Latin America be comprehensive, ambitious and balanced, but it is of paramount importance that they make a contribution to people's human rights and social and economic rights, and to mutual sustainable development and to the reduction of inequalities.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Minister, the Fifth Summit certainly has a specific agenda to discuss social exclusion and poverty.
The new stance of the people of Paraguay in their election of President Fernando Lugo is the clearest indication of this on the ground in opposition to neo-liberal policies that have impoverished the continent.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, Commissioner Barroso was on a sales mission the other day in Ireland.
He regretted that President Bush had met 16 different Council presidents during his eight years and praised the Lisbon Treaty for establishing a joint president.
He - there are no plans for a she - can be accompanied by a Commission president, who is not elected either, and a foreign minister, also hand-picked by a super-qualified majority of 20 of the 27 prime ministers in the Lisbon Treaty Union.
Democracy was born in Europe, 2 500 years ago in Greece.
We, the elected, can vote for or against Commissioner Barroso, if he is reappointed by 20 of the 27 prime ministers.
After 29 years I will leave this place to my successor, Hanne Dahl, and I will not be a Member during the coming asparagus season in May.
I can speak from experience here: I myself am involved in the work of a small NGO in Central America, and what the people suffered there as a result of Hurricane Mitch and Hurricane Stan is just a small foretaste of what we can expect if we do not get climate change under control.
Vice-President Barrot is aware of this and has expressed himself in very critical terms on this subject.
If we want to work together to combat climate change, the Latin American countries must also play a constructive role.
The Lima Summit is a good opportunity for the other 49 countries to call on the Cuban authorities to launch a peaceful process of transition to democracy through dialogue, and it is also a wonderful opportunity to establish a genuine strategic and sustainable alliance.
I believe that the word dynamics is very appropriate - we know what difficulties Mercosur encountered in the beginning and, in fact, still does.
It must also quickly find a solution in order to normalise relations between the European Union and Cuba.
The Lima Summit ought to enhance our bi-regional association with Latin America and the Caribbean in all areas, and encourage agreement to take on global challenges together, from climate change to drug trafficking or terrorism.
We must assist the countries in this regard, and it is my hope that the Lima poverty eradication agenda is an ambitious one, although obviously there is no substitute for the political will of the governments concerned.
The idea of the political prisoner, Mr President, must be totally eliminated in Latin America, and in Cuba, and violence against dissidents must be stamped out. (PL) Mr President, European Union-Latin America and Caribbean summits play a significant role in defining and strengthening the direction of the strategic partnership between our regions.
The forthcoming Lima Summit provides a further opportunity to deepen dialogue on matters of crucial importance to both areas.
I should like to point out that according to estimates by the UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean in 2007, 36.5% of the population of the region is living in poverty, whilst 13.5% is living in extreme poverty.
The European Parliament's involvement will certainly strengthen the strategic partnership between our regions.
Accordingly, I await the results and final declaration of the Fifth European Union-Latin America and Caribbean Summit with great interest. (DE) Mr President, I welcome the fact that the governments will enter into dialogue on key issues at the European Union-Latin America and Caribbean Summit.
In view of these situations and these changes, how have the Council and Commission reacted to take account of these changes and the possibility of influencing these two countries? (PL) Mr President, the countries of Latin America have undertaken far-reaching pension reforms with significant involvement by the World Bank.
However, Mr President, I must point out another aspect, which is that this cooperation and its effectiveness are important not only for the two continents of Latin America and Europe but also, due to the values defended by these two groups throughout the world, for the global context.
I should also like to mention almost 400 bi-regional measures for the implementation of the commitments made in Guadalajara, as well as the new list that has been prepared concerning the implementation of commitments made at the Vienna Summit in 2006.
I should like to say that the Lima Summit will not be the EU-Cuba Summit, neither will it be a summit on Cuba.
The two documents represent the basic guidelines for all the Member States and their attitude to Cuba, and also for their talks on Cuba with third countries.
I should like to say that the Slovenian Presidency is making efforts for a new common platform to be adopted at this session.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Salafranca, I can say that the Commission has put every possible effort into making this Summit a real success.
As Mr Schulz has pointed out, and the Minister has just said, Lima really has to be an opportunity to give a strong impetus to relations between Latin America and Europe.
If we want reforms in the major international institutions, we shall only achieve that through a fairly far-reaching agreement between Latin America and the European Union.
The Commission is, of course, very sensitive to the speeches that have raised this problem.
I should like to say a word about Cuba.
Our Commissioner, Louis Michel, was in Cuba recently.
The point raised by Madame Belohorská, access to water, is very important and the issue has been included in the draft statement for the Lima Summit.
The question of food prices has been raised and it is true that the rise in food prices will certainly affect Latin America, where over a third of the population is already living in poverty.
The Commission is extremely worried about the situation in Latin America, especially in Mexico and Guatemala.
The Summit will enable us to step up the dialogue with the region and coordinate our efforts better on important international deadlines, especially for the environment.
Finally, I should like to welcome the work of EuroLat.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 24 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) It is no accident that the Latin American rain forests are called the lungs of the world.
It is therefore important that environmental protection and a proper climate policy are given heightened emphasis in our cooperation between the European Union and the Latin American countries.
We must therefore motivate our Latin American friends to call an end to these destructive actions.
