Combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0027/2003) by Mr Caudron, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community participation in a research and development programme aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis through a long term partnership between Europe and the developing countries, undertaken by a number of Member States and Norway (COM(2002) 474 - C5-0392/2002 - 2002/0211(COD)) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2001, 14 EU Member States and Norway took the initiative of combining their research and clinical intervention efforts in the fight against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries under the EDCTP programme.
The aim of this research programme is to speed up the development and evaluation of new vaccines and drugs through a partnership between Europe and some fifteen developing countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
It proposes to do this by applying Article 169 of the Treaty, under which the Community may, in implementing the framework programme, participate in research programmes undertaken by several Member States.
The Commission's specific proposal is to provide for a financial contribution of EUR 200 million from EU funds, which is earmarked in the Sixth Framework Research and Development Programme.
I would like to highlight the fact that this is a new departure in institutional terms, as this will be the first time Article 169 of the Treaty has actually been used.
The EDCTP represents a new approach which will bring industry and the public sector together in risk sharing and developing new kinds of partnership which are urgently needed to combat the disastrous effects of these diseases.
To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of European research, we are in a position to adopt an ambitious programme which brings together the Member States' research activities and establishes a genuine partnership between Europe and Africa for clinical trials, a partnership which I hope will receive your support and thus get under way as quickly as possible.
Over 40 million people are now carrying the HIV virus, 36 million of them in developing countries and 28 million in sub-Saharan Africa alone.
Lastly, there are now 8 million cases of tuberculosis, with 2 million deaths a year, 1.9 million of those in countries of the South.
It was with these appalling facts in mind - and in their hearts - that the Commission, Commissioner Busquin, the European Parliament and the Council agreed upon and drew up a programme of EUR 600 million under the Sixth Framework Programme on Research and Development, for which I was appointed general rapporteur.
This involves putting in place a new instrument under Article 169 - and this is a first, as the Commissioner has reminded us - with the financial participation of several Member States, Norway, the Commission, and, we hope, the private sector.
Following those votes, a trialogue meeting was held with the Commission and the Greek Presidency in Strasbourg on 11 February.
At the trialogue meeting on 11 February 2003, we called on the Council to add a reference to other infectious diseases in a new recital.
Every day that passes thousands of men, women and children die of these diseases.
It sets up a new fund for a new project, but it is designed to be tied together with the existing work which is already going on in the participating Member States and Norway as regards research into these diseases.
The statistics are quite horrifying - 90% of the world's HIV virus carriers live in developing countries and 95% of TB sufferers are in developing countries.
The Committee on Budgets - without dissent - approved the proposed EUR 200 million contribution from the EU which, of course, is in addition to the EUR 60 million which the EU has pledged to the global health fund.
It is important that any new work - or the consolidation and coordination of existing work - in the field of research into these diseases must be focused upon the needs and conditions existing in developing countries.
Material and non-material investment in the control of the major communicable diseases in poverty-ridden countries must be increased and, most importantly, new tools to prevent and combat the three diseases are needed here and now.
It is imperative to ensure that the beneficiaries, the end-users of these new tools, are fully involved in their clinical evaluation and application.
It is therefore heartening that the Commission's proposal for a European Developing Countries Clinical Trials programme (EDCTP) addresses the important issue of human capacity development in the societies most affected by the three diseases.
It is, however, very disheartening that the Commission, after two years, has still not provided any substantial information about the Member States' common activity, the very activity which forms the basis for mobilising Article 169.
I very much welcome this initiative, which could be a real step forward in the battle against HIV/Aids, malaria and TB in the developing countries.
As has already been said, it is a rapidly growing problem, usually affecting the poorest and most vulnerable in society who have less access to health care and education - many of whom are women.
Therefore, the role of women as sufferers, main carers, educators and as active members of communities in the developing countries is key to finding the right solutions.
If we look at HIV/Aids, by the year 2000, 9 million women and 4.3 million children had died of Aids, and these figures are going up.
Women face greater danger of HIV infection for biological and social reasons, because of lack of control of their sexual health and lack of access to preventative information.
Moreover, the results can be used to improve the treatment of other diseases and can form the basis of new research activities, thereby contributing to resolving other health issues related to the problems experienced by developing countries.
Secondly, regarding Amendment No 13 - involvement of the private sector - I believe that it is particularly important to involve the private sector in the programme because this will enable additional funds to be leveraged, encouraging businesses to invest more in diseases which affect developing countries.
The third point concerns the protection of intellectual property.
Mr President, the health crisis in developing countries is unprecedented.
Given the huge need for drugs, the lack of attention on the part of the pharmaceutical industry is astounding.
It is an excellent idea to bring all the activities in the Member States and the developing countries together under one umbrella as far as possible.
Article 169 offers the perfect basis for joining forces; indeed, a united effort is exactly what the developing countries need - and also exactly what Europe itself needs.
Europe can make a difference in the world if it pulls together.
There must be a reasonable return on investment for industry, but the emphasis must be on the public interest, the development of affordable drugs.
We all know that a great deal needs to be done in order to combat the health crisis, but it is not necessary to fund malaria nets out of this budget, useful though they are.
Thirdly, AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are a good place to start.
There are, however, other diseases, such as sleeping sickness and river blindness, which have been neglected.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, combating poverty in the developing countries is the priority of the European Union's current policy.
It is high time that the European Union pays special attention to this problem, and so I join the previous speakers in welcoming the Commission's initiative to invoke Article 169 of the Treaty in order that the Sixth Framework Programme for Research can be used to develop new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
The second point to which I should like to draw attention is the synergy with other European programmes.
The Commission's proposal to set up the Erasmus Mundus programme will shortly be given the support of our Parliament.
Mr President, first of all I very much wish to congratulate Gérard Caudron on his report concerning the first application of Article 169 of the Treaty to the Sixth Framework Research and Development Programme.
His work has certainly fostered excellent cooperation between us and has facilitated the success of this excellent proposal.
This is due to the courageous initiative taken by Commissioner Busquin, and involves allocating a total of EUR 600 million to large-scale research with the objective of combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis under the EDCTP programme.
The ethical principles in question are those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and those defined in the World Medical Association's Helsinki Declaration on ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects.
The European and Developing countries Clinical Trials Partnership must apply the good clinical practice defined in Directive 2001/20/EC on the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use in the European Union.
The EDCTP programme should encourage the training of specialists and capacity building in developing countries, step up technology transfer to those countries and mobilise additional resources for the fight against these diseases.
The Community will ensure that these strategic decisions and the implementation of programmes are in line with the objective of placing on the market products that are at the same time effective, accessible at the lowest possible price and easy to use, and adapted to the specific conditions prevailing in developing countries.
Mr President, there are currently over 40 million people in the world who are suffering from AIDS.
Only USD 3 billion a year is being spent globally in trying to halt the spread of AIDS.
This figure must increase to at least USD 10 billion a year if we are to combat the disease effectively.
Mr President, the research programme on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis is necessary because there is relatively little medical research into poverty-related diseases.
Millions of people in developing countries are dying of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis every year.
What is special about the project that we are now discussing is that it has the potential to give an impetus to the development of new technologies and new safe, effective drugs for combating these diseases.
The research taking place in this field in the European Union is very fragmented, and very few networks have been established, which has resulted in organisational and economic obstacles to large-scale research and trials.
It is right, therefore, that this proposal makes use of Article 169 of the Treaty, which indeed enables the participation of the European Union in joint research and development programmes.
A very important criterion for our group was that the countries where these diseases are widespread be involved intensively in the setting up, and participate fully in the implementation, of the programme from the outset, and that a large number of the trials take place on site there.
Another point important to our group was that the programme should make a contribution towards capacity-building in the developing countries and ensuring the availability of good, affordable drugs in those countries.
We have heard that it is the biggest killer, that 5 million people die a year, 95% of them in poor countries.
It is for clinical trials which will lead to the development of new products, in particular a new vaccine for tuberculosis, much better diagnostic tools, and combined medicines for HIV/AIDS which are easier to take and have fewer side effects.
We must strengthen the clinical research capacities in developing countries.
Everything must be anchored in the developing countries with an understanding that, should we find these things, should we find a better vaccine for tuberculosis, better drugs for HIV/AIDS and better diagnostic tests, they will be available to those that need them.
I am very pleased that has been emphasised and I thank Gérard Caudron very much for his work as well as, of course, Commissioner Busquin.
Like other speakers in the debate, I believe however that success depends crucially upon preventive work and efforts made before the disease has broken out.
What we must not forget is that treatment with what are known as retardant medicines is, however, an extremely complicated form of medication that also requires a functioning medical and health care system.
If politics is the art of the possible let us now challenge ourselves to do better, to respond in a more positive and caring way to the helpless pleas of those destined to die of AIDS, disease and hunger.
Let us give meaningful expression to Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights which is the right to life.
Through the research programme, the European Union is contributing financially to the fight against these diseases and we can hope that this will give people suffering from AIDS in the developing countries a chance of getting effective and affordable medicines for their terrible affliction.
It is therefore vital that the initiative we are considering today, which aims to combat these scourges of poverty by injecting considerable sums of money - over EUR 800 million - into the development of new drugs, should be approved at first reading and implemented as soon as possible, because the situation is urgent.
We have every right to be proud of this important initiative, because it is a model research programme to be jointly undertaken by the European Union, the Member States and associated countries, and we have the right to hope that it will inspire other actions so that similar attention is focussed on other diseases that are taking a heavy toll on the poorest people on our planet.
This initiative is, however, also a model for the new philosophy needed for North-South relations - relations which do not involve exploitation, domination or paternalistic aid, but rather relations based on partnerships with a view to promoting the technological independence and development of the countries concerned, and their active participation in the implementation and coordination of the programme.
It is terrifying because it presents a tragic view of the health situation in countries where the three major scourges of this century which we are discussing are concentrated: AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis claim more than five million victims every year.
It is encouraging because of the figures on the new effort being made by all the Member States, which have appropriated EUR 600 million for research in addition to the 100 million stipulated by the Fifth Framework Programme.
AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are diseases connected with poverty, and in fact, as has here been said, five million people a year die of them, especially in sub-Saharan Africa.
It is a vicious circle.
A new kind of cooperation is needed.
A lack of cooperation and a lack of clinical trial facilities and trained staff in the developing countries have been a barrier to investment up till now.
AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria betray the presence of a crisis in society, as they are responsible for the deaths of so many.
Many of the Members have stressed how this research, which proposes to help combat diseases by increasing knowledge in order to produce new drugs and to improve existing ones, combines with other policies which we, as Europe, must press ahead with in the education and employment sectors, because education, employment and health are the only factors which can contribute to the achievement of democracy in those countries which see Europe as an increasingly firm point of reference.
I believe that this report is the result of his excellent work carried out as rapporteur on the Sixth Framework Programme for research and technological development, to which, moreover, I contributed as draftsman for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs at its initial stage.
The partnership which we are establishing by applying Article 169, is an innovation, apparently without precedent, and we therefore warmly welcome it: it is a genuine, tangible contribution to the fight against poverty diseases, a fight in which the European Union has shouldered its responsibilities by taking up its position on the front line, as the leading world donor.
The allocated budget - EUR 600 million - is in addition to the series of initiatives implemented since Durban which aim to strengthen and make more effective the fight against these diseases which chiefly affect developing countries: I will mention only the Global Fund, set up at the Genoa G8 summit, and the European Community action programme.
This coordinated cooperation between the Member States, the European Union and the private sector, which is using a new, coordinated approach for a long-term Community strategy in the fight against these three diseases, has the considerable merit of actively involving the developing countries themselves, enabling real improvements to be made.
That is why the will of Parliament, the Council and the Commission to work together in an attempt to coordinate their efforts as swiftly as possible is, as I see it, key for the success of this action, which although it will not of course solve all the problems, will nevertheless make Europe's efforts in the field of research and development more effective.
So it is now up to the Member States to demonstrate the same determination and will, which is always a problem when we try something new.
In dealing with AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis we are of course entering the sphere of research, but development, trade and other areas are also involved here.
So it is now up to us to put that right, in conjunction with the Member States.
What is more, we require a legal basis to apply Article 169 of the Treaty.
Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain have already mounted operations with three clinical sites in Africa.
A second very concrete example is that of the health school in Vienna, which trains African researchers in the methodology of clinical trials.
I therefore wish to thank the Danish and Greek Presidencies.
Lastly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have all gained a sense of the scale of the tragedy that these diseases represent for developing countries, and particularly for Africa.
I believe that this first example will enable us to demonstrate that by virtue of initiatives carried out under Article 169, we now have an additional instrument that will allow us to carry out even more effective actions at European level.
Mr President, in December 2001 the Commission adopted its Green Paper on the criminal-law protection of the financial interests of the Community and the establishment of a European Prosecutor.
The European Parliament, too, got involved in the debate.
Even before the Green Paper appeared, it called in several resolutions for better protection for EU finances through the establishment of a European prosecutor for financial matters, who would deal with the growing number of cases of cross-border crime affecting the EU budget.
The Community budget will continue to grow, administration of European money will become even more complex.
The territorial fragmentation of criminal law systems and the difficulties in judicial cooperation between Member States are the reason why criminals are seldom caught and even more seldom convicted.
The Council has recognised the danger in so far as it anchored the protection of financial interests in the first pillar of the Treaty of Maastricht and enshrined cooperation with the Commission in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
With today's report from the Committee on Budgetary Control, Parliament joins the 72 opinions that the Commission has so far received from various quarters and considered concerning the Green Paper.
We want links with the existing structures of OLAF, Eurojust and Europol.
Our main concern is that an appropriate legal basis for the creation of this Public Prosecutor's Office should be laid down in the Treaty and that the Council should appoint this new organ with the assent of Parliament.
We all want an area of freedom, security and justice, where a stop is put to fraud and corruption at the expense of the EU budget and therefore of the European taxpayer.
The issue of the creation of a European Public Prosecutor to combat fraud is an example of the problems, sluggishness and inadequacy of European Union integration.
The gravity of the situation was condemned by the European Parliament more than 12 years ago.
The time for delays has passed: we must implement initiatives which ensure a uniform level of protection of citizens' fundamental rights in criminal-law proceedings and minimum rules for the admissibility of evidence, and the Convention on the Future of Europe must propose a suitable legal basis in the European Constitution which is sufficiently flexible to allow the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor to combat fraud, capable, in the future, of evolving within the context of Eurojust with wider objectives relating to the fight against cross-border crime.
As we know, this fraud and crime are a long-standing concern of the European Parliament, and Article 280 of the Treaty of Amsterdam gave the Community power to take effective and equivalent measures in all the Member States.
I also endorse the incorporation of a new Article 280a in the future constitutional treaty, an idea which was in fact rejected by the last intergovernmental conference, despite the support this House gave to the idea in 2000.
The Theato report now makes quite clear that such a Public Prosecutor will only exist in connection with Eurojust, only as a position at Eurojust.
We will shortly have 25 national legal codes, 25 codes of criminal procedure, 25 legal systems and 21 languages in this enlarged European Union.
We must therefore say a clear no to a general European Public Prosecutor for all serious cross-border crime, such as the Presidium of the Convention is currently proposing, because there is nothing to be gained by it.
In other areas, trials fail not out of lack of interest on the part of national public prosecutors, as is the case with the financial protection of the European Union, but mostly as a result of language barriers and legal problems.
That is why I would like to send a clear signal to the Convention again here: a Public Prosecutor to protect the financial interests of the European Union - Yes; a general European Public Prosecutor to fight crime - No.
The first issue has to do with the jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor.
Of course, we all agree that the starting point was to combat fraud, which something needs to be done about immediately.
However, the committee pointed out that transnational relations and the collective structures to which Member States take recourse mean that an evolutionary approach must be taken to the jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor, so that, if necessary, powers to combat other crimes can be added at a later date; unfortunately, as we all know, the current international system is always thinking up new crimes.
The second point made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerns the role of the European Parliament in relation to the European Prosecutor.
Thirdly, the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor goes hand in hand with the development of European criminal law, which is an inevitable development, and finally, it is, I think, important to point out, within the structure of relations between the European Union and its Member States, how the European Prosecutor will stand in relation to national public prosecutors.
It was in December 2001 that the Commission presented the Green Paper on the criminal-law protection of financial interests and the establishment of a European Prosecutor, which is being discussed today and is the subject of the report.
Mrs Theato, everyone here knows that we really would not have made the progress that we have with the project for a European Prosecutor without your active support and your commitment.
Most people who took part in the debate and in the consultation process have a basically positive attitude towards a European Public Prosecutor.
Over all, however, openness to the project of a European Public Prosecutor has grown appreciably as the year has gone by.
Last week the Convention Presidium proposed including an Article 20 about the European Public Prosecutor's office in the 'Justice and Internal Affairs' Title, and the Plenum of the Convention will give its opinion on that next week.
In this crucial phase it really is essential that Parliament and the Commission should be pulling in the same direction and sending the Convention a clear message.
It is already a cause for some satisfaction that our common concern has nevertheless come far enough for the European Public Prosecutor's office to have been given an article of its own in the draft treaty.
What is proposed is a clause empowering the Council to create the office of European Public Prosecutor unanimously at some time in the future.
I am glad that Parliament and the Commission are in full and complete agreement on this eminently important and highly political question.
I hope that a large number of amendments will be tabled for the Convention's plenary session on 3 and 4 April with the aim of creating a European Public Prosecutor in the Treaty itself.
We are, for example, still debating whether there is a need for a Preliminary Chamber, whether national court control of the Public Prosecutor's decisions is sufficient or not and whether it can be transferred.
The Commission also agrees with the report that some questions connected with the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's office still need further discussion.
The Commission will comply with the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control and look at these questions in detail in the course of this year.
In so doing it will be guided by the proposals made by the Convention and in particular also by the work in the field of justice and internal affairs.
The important thing now, however, is that a European criminal prosecution authority should be anchored in the Constitutional Treaty itself with a basis in law for developing the secondary law that will then be necessary.
At the heart of this issue lies the concern to protect the financial interests of European taxpayers.
For some time the European Parliament has been calling for the creation of a European Prosecutor with competences relating to the Union's interests.
It is important to point out the existing differences between the Member States, which result in a lack of efficiency.
I believe it is no accident that the Committee on Budgetary Control repeatedly comes forward with such initiatives since we are finding from experience that it is impossible to protect a budget that has now grown to EUR 100 000 million with the funds of 50 years ago, that is with national funds.
But it will be a very important step towards protecting Europe's taxpayers.
Parliament voted on it again two weeks ago in Strasbourg and I hope that here, too, Parliament will back the rapporteur's third paragraph, which deals with this.
Luxembourg is not responding, and we must stress from this place once again how important a European Public Prosecutor would be to perhaps give a bit of a kick to Member States that do not take European taxpayers' interests quite so seriously.
Again warm congratulations and I think this House will take a good and important decision today with this report!
If we were to implement this model here and now, I would anticipate major conflicts of authority between the common European Prosecutor and the national authorities, as well as some overlap in relation to other Community initiatives such as Eurojust, OLAF and Europol, initiatives that, in view of the short period of time they have been up and running, should at all events be given more time to produce results in areas including that of fraud involving EU funds.
I just do not think that the time is ripe for such a drastic harmonisation of fundamental areas of legal policy, as proposed by Mrs Theato.
In general, it is these considerations that form the basis of the amendments to the report tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the establishment of OLAF, the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office would be the next logical step in fighting financial fraud in the EU in the interests of the European taxpayer.
The establishment of OLAF as a European fraud office without judicial accompaniment creates a legal vacuum at European level.
I believe we urgently need such a broad majority in order to demonstrate to the Convention Plenum in particular that we are against such unanimity and that we believe that the European Public Prosecutor's Office must have a really important place in the new treaty, that the establishment of this Public Prosecutor's Office must be decided by qualified majority and that here, too, Parliament must be given rights of codetermination.
We must ensure that throughout all of those public prosecutors' offices there is the necessary understanding of what the European Union's financial interests are.
In the British legal system, which is the common law system, the rules of evidence were established over 322 years - and yet we are going to bring in common rules of evidence willy nilly?
It is important that we remember that the people in the European Union are entitled to have proper representation in relation to their concerns.
It is noticeable, for example, that the Netherlands reports four times as many fraud cases as, for example, Spain or Greece.
If Member States fail to get to grips with their fraud cases, they must also face the threat of having their subsidies cut off or they must be made to pay for the losses to the EU resulting from their authorities' lax controls.
As a member of the European Convention, I think our job is to look for ways in which we do not add to institutional bureaucracy, but we try to simplify things so that the citizens of Europe are both protected and more in touch with those who represent them.
I do not think it is acceptable to establish a European Prosecutor who looks after our financial interests but who ignores, for example, crimes involving the trafficking of human beings, particularly of children.
I call on those who truly believe in European integration to be consistent and to support the plan for a stronger European Union, that is, which can avail itself of all the necessary means in order to exert real influence on the scourge of fraud prejudicial to the Union's financial interests, since until now, these interests have not been adequately protected by the Member States with their laws.
The mere decision in principle is, however, not sufficient: if we really are in favour of establishing a European Public Prosecutor, we must be consistent in also providing him with the effective means to operate.
Mr President, the discussion on the criminal-law protection of the EC's financial interests has been dragging on for quite some time now.
If the resolution were really aimed at an effective criminal prosecution of fraud and criminal activity detrimental to the interests of the Community, it would have received our support.
This has proved impossible, however, now that this report has overreached itself and is aspiring after the European Union as a political entity.
A proposal - for a European Public Prosecutor - which, as luck would have it, has been put forward again by the Praesidium of the Convention: Article 20 proclaims a European law creating a European Public Prosecutor's office, whose structure should be decided by a majority vote.
What we need is a clear legal basis that clearly defines the task to be performed.
This first step must be taken now with the revision of the treaties and eastwards enlargement.
Mr President, today we have an open market within the European Union, but that means that the market is also open to fraudsters.
The Commission has estimated that EUR 90 billion has been lost to the EU budget from cigarette smuggling alone.
It is essential that the European Public Prosecutor's powers are restricted to the financial interests of the EU budget.
Mr President, the first point I would like to make with regard to combating fraud is that there is one problem that requires urgent attention.
In discussing this matter, we should not create the feeling - which some people have done and have been trying to do - that, in some way or another, the European Union's treasury is a more leaky vessel than those of the Member States or similar treasuries throughout the world.
Mr President, I stated recently that the use of financial resources available to the European Union is probably the most complex, but at the same time, the most attractive task undertaken by the Community institutions.
Improving effectiveness and transparency in the use of human resources is therefore welcome, noteworthy and justifiable.
The quality of European citizenship, in other words the feeling of belonging to a supranational area of solidarity, is also reinforced by the way in which the Union's financial pillar is used.
We can therefore only praise the Commission's efforts intended to improve the criminal-law protection of the Community's financial interests and particularly to create a European Prosecutor.
Rushing headlong in this way can only make the structure that we are trying to give Europe even more justicialist and export a certain model of Italian justice with which we are all familiar and which has caused a great deal of harm in our country.
These are the reasons why we will be voting against the Theato report, having already voted against in committee, not because the idea per se is without foundation, but because it lacks all the attributes to make it effectively fair, as justice also at European level should be.
I would like to place the report within its context and point out that we are talking about establishing the European Parliament's position in relation to the Commission's Green Paper on the European financial prosecutor.
The Green Paper, however, can be summed up in the idea, the intellectual hypothesis, that the defence of Community, and therefore cross-border, financial interests can perhaps be better defended by a figure also at Community level in this same field.
Mr President, the Theato report on the Commission's Green Paper on the protection of Community financial interests and on the creation of a European Public Prosecutor has had a lot of preparation and a long debate.
In the absence of such conditions, the creation of an independent European Public Prosecutor without any controls would damage, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the already fragile interinstitutional balance between the Union and the States in an area as sensitive as justice: it would therefore be illogical and unjustified.
It is in the context of Eurojust - this certainly does have a subsidiarity problem and a major problem with coordinating the European States - and in this context alone that we can truly achieve a significant, uniform result which respects the States and at the same time provides the guarantees which the European Union must have.
This is how we are going to vote, and we will table these amendments to the Convention, which obviously cannot incorporate a European Prosecutor, an unrestricted super-prosecutor, which would run counter to all the guarantees which nevertheless exist in Europe.
The vote will take place shortly.
I believe that until now, Mr President, only our colleagues in the Basque Country have been accustomed to this, to seeing their names on the targets painted in the street, and for some of them, Mr President, we have observed a minute's silence here in this House.
The amendments which cannot be accepted by the Commission - there is not a very long list - are Amendments Nos 16, 22, 23, 24, 37, 39, 53, 55 and 63.
I consequently hope that representations will eventually have the effect of resolving this important employment issue by breaking the interinstitutional deadlock in a positive way.
I was thinking precisely of them when I voted for the introduction in the Accession Treaty of a financial framework, because my personal aim and the aim of the Pensioners' Party is to have safe pensions, which enable elderly people to live in dignity, also in the candidate countries.
In fact, as we know, 'marketing' implies greater responsibility for ensuring that the product in question will fulfil the purposes for which it is intended without compromising public health and safety (of persons and goods).
This trust must therefore be matched both by the provision for and listing of these products or substances - a measure proposed by the Commission, which I welcome - bearing in mind that the new EU strategy on chemical products will involve the registration of around 30 000 substances - and by a preliminary evaluation of the risks inherent in each substance.
This first amendment to the Directive concerns nonylphenol (NP) and nonylphenol ethoxylate (NPE), used in the production of some materials.
This leaves no room for doubt that, since NP and NPE tend to accumulate dangerously in living organisms, framework directive 2000/60/EC, on water, classifies NPs as 'priority hazardous substances' and since enormous quantities of NP and NPE are marketed and used, their release into the environment must be strictly limited.
My reservations centred on the second amendment to the Directive, on the use of hexavalent chromium (or chromium VI) in cement and in cement preparations.
We have long argued for the development of research in clinical methods in the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries.
I particularly welcome the fact that up to EUR 600 million will be made available for the fight against these diseases, of which the EU will contribute up to EUR 200 million.
Mr President, I see that my previous explanations of vote have been heeded in the drawing up of this provision.
These three pandemics have reminded us that the planet is like another Space Shuttle Columbia.
This shows that health is a global public good.
In other words, the partnership between Europe and the developing countries is clearly a positive but insufficient initiative.
The challenge is to examine the solutions to these problems on a global level in order to prevent them from destroying those who are too short-sighted to think beyond their own country. . (PT) Our commitment to combating transmissible diseases, with particular focus on poverty-related diseases, such as AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, and on improving vaccination and healthcare levels by the more developed countries funding health programmes, by removing barriers of access (licences and patents) to pharmaceutical products faced by developing countries and the barriers faced by international partnerships in developing new generations of products is crucial.
I must once again point out that 70% of those infected with AIDS live in sub-Saharan Africa and that AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria account for 5 million deaths per year.
I therefore welcome the EU's proposal to participate in research programmes for new clinical interventions for combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
This participation cannot, however, replace the EU's financial commitments to combating these diseases.
I also support the report because it refers to a Commission proposal in which financial contributions converge from sources as diverse as the EU, national research programmes within the various participating States and from the private sector, involving the affected countries themselves in the programme.
Millions of people are dying every year in the poorest countries.
I feel sure that Commissioner Wallström will feel let down by DG Fisheries.
Perhaps Commissioner Fischler should put him in charge of inspecting abattoirs.
The report presented by Elspeth Attwooll (ELDR, UK), on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, welcoming the Commission's proposal for a regulation intended to prohibit this practice therefore warrants my full support.
The abolition of services and greater favouritism and dependence are being promoted within a framework of cutbacks in the role of public services and a more vigorous, peculiar sort of patronage which will serve the interests of lobbies, large companies and strong political families.
We voted against Amendment No 64, even though it seeks to create a 'less unequal' system for the employees of the Parliament.
Voting in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market took place so late that only one day remained for the tabling of amendments before the plenary session.
Mr President, I have to admit that I had a little nap during the votes, and, while I was asleep, I saw the 15 Heads of State, meeting in Brussels for this European Council, having an animated discussion.
The efforts of all Member States and the EU must therefore focus on four priority objectives.
Although we are going through a period of economic stagnation and of policy uncertainties, we cannot allow these priorities to be overlooked. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (FR) The Brussels Council removed from its agenda the speech by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, President of the Convention, on the basis that the subject of Iraq required more urgent attention.
The first, of course, concerns the Iraq crisis, which shows that a unified foreign policy is impossible and which will probably lead to the formation of at least two Europes, with either a vertical or horizontal split.
Many of these targets have been debated on various occasions at European summits but have ultimately fallen by the wayside.
Mr President, on this, the eighth day of the action in Iraq, I would like to convey my sadness at the suffering of the civilians affected by this conflict.
At the same time, however, I believe it is necessary to point out that Saddam Hussein's regime has led directly to this end result because of the massacres he has carried out, in particular using weapons of mass destruction, and his endless time-wasting tactics in response to requests to disarm and change his behaviour.
Today, however, we must express our solidarity towards our allies, whose troops are fighting on the ground and - I would say this in particular here - towards our British fellow Members.
I also believe that we must use the current crisis in foreign and security policy to unite Europe in foreign and security policy, not against the USA but as a self-assured partner; sadly we are still not that today, and it is our own fault.
This sign of impotence can only be a cause of pain to all those who have always hoped and continue to hope that Europe will be to the world a shining example of balance, progress, peace and guaranteeing respect for the rights of peoples and international law.
Despite the fact that no resolution has been adopted, there were significant votes, the most important of which would appear to be that in which Parliament opted by a large majority for a common foreign and security policy with areas of enhanced cooperation.
They have managed to achieve the impossible in the current circumstances, by drafting a resolution that does not contain a single recital condemning US-UK military belligerence or a single article demanding that it should cease.
Now that war has begun, this should be a time for unity, whether or not one agrees with the war.
When one of the Member States, the United Kingdom, is at war, our duty is to stand shoulder to shoulder with it.
The European Union must not shy away from what is happening; it must call for this illegal war to stop, in accordance with Article 11 of the Treaties requiring its foreign policy to be in conformity with the principles of the United Nations Charter, and it must condemn the British Government.
Tony Blair, of course, is preparing to come to Athens in a few days' time, for the signing of the Treaty by the 10 new Member States on 16 April.
In an unprecedented distortion of the truth, the majority of members even voted against amendments which simply stated the obvious, that this war is being waged without the backing of the UN, is opposed by most members of the Security Council and has incited millions of people to take to the streets in daily protest.
The only opponent able to put an end to the war and overturn the powers supporting it is the anti-imperialist, grass-roots movement. . (FR) I voted against the compromise resolution on Iraq because it goes back on the position taken up by Parliament on 30 January last.
I wish to record my absolute abhorrence of the war against Iraq, which is in breach of international law and natural justice.
I am deeply disappointed at some Member States and applicant countries who give military support to the conflict.
Iraqi and Kurdish authorities should provide the monitors with full access and cooperation to protect the Iraqi population, including the Kurdish population of northern Iraq, now potentially at risk of attack from Turkey. . (FR) A swift end to hostilities in Iraq is highly desirable, as is the need to reduce collateral damage as much as possible.
Consequently, so little remained that it would be preferable to maintain the position adopted on 30 January, in which the majority of Members of the European Parliament affirmed their commitment to the United Nations' remaining at the centre of the world order and roundly condemned a unilateral war.
I had hoped the European Parliament would do its job to bridge differences between our countries at this time of international crisis, and like every rational member in this Chamber I believe everything possible must be done to avoid war whenever possible.
The tens of millions of people who have demonstrated all over the world in the past few weeks and who will take to the streets again on Saturday 29 March are showing the way to stop this war - (NL) For a year and a half we have known that President Bush of the United States wanted war.
The focus of attention has shifted to the redevelopment of a common foreign policy in the EU and common military action.
That is why this war must be stopped before it is too late.
The European Parliament's inability to adopt any position at all on the Iraqi crisis either, specifically in the current context, reveals the complexity of the real difficulties that exist - and these can only be overcome when there is mutual respect for the existence of these differences and for the significance of these differences, leaving behind the regrettable irresponsibility of the left, the daydreams of the pacifists and the dangerous new impulses of a certain centre- European approach.
Whatever is said about a so-called 'American empire', it is quite clear that Europe will never achieve a common position on international matters and issues as sensitive as this by transferring intra-European imperial bad habits or by knee-jerk reactions that betray the lingering presence of this old memory. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) In a debate yesterday on the situation in Iraq, a deeply respected French colleague said that it was hardly the time to lay blame when men, women and children were dying in this tragic war.
Mr Simitis said to us yesterday that the Brussels European Council had carefully avoided getting to the crux of the matter.
The inability to establish a position on Iraq clearly shows that, although the European Parliament can act as a useful forum for discussion and debate, it cannot become a relevant setting for policy-making.
Mr President, I welcome a tough policy to restrict the use of pesticides.
This can only be achieved by creating a framework for taxes and other levies on pesticides and I support the plan to stop Member States from reducing VAT on pesticides.
It is essential to point out that this involves, first and foremost, a health problem.
As far as possible, recourse to alternative crop-protection solutions should be encouraged.
The basic aim of the strategy is to reduce the impacts of pesticides on human health and the environment.
Pesticides play an important role in these elements demanded by European consumers.
The suggestion to reduce pesticide use by 50% is not predicated upon any scientific data.
Education and training programmes also play an important role in introducing alternative cultivation practices.
Any future strategy must remain compatible with the existing framework. . (PT) Agriculture in the European Union is increasingly dependent on pesticides (327 000 tonnes in 1999).
Although it is believed that there can be no profitable agriculture without the intensive use of pesticides, this is only true if the environmental cost of all products is included in their final price.
It is worth recalling that, according to the WHO, every year pesticides cause disease in 3 million people and the deaths of 220 000 throughout the world.
As I think you must be aware, Mr President, I am here because I have been elected by the pensioners to represent the Italian Pensioners' Party.
I have to say that, although this is not one of the subjects on which I usually speak to pensioners, I and the Pensioners' Party are in favour of the creation of a European Public Prosecutor, but only once we have a European penal code and a European code of criminal procedure.
It is important that there be a supranational prosecutor able to protect the EU's financial interests.
A European Prosecutor is therefore needed who can be effective in combating fraud directed against the EU's financial interests.
It is still too early to express an opinion on the precise rules that should apply to this prosecutor, but we are encouraged by the fact that the debate has begun.
The governments then chose the far more sensible option of Eurojust, in other words, the option of improved cooperation between national legal systems, with no supranational aspect.
The Presidium took it up on its own initiative and automatically included it in its draft European Constitution.
Behind this determination, once again, lies a simple power struggle.
The role of the European Public Prosecutor should be restricted strictly to that of protecting EU finances.
The role of the European Public Prosecutor should be to coordinate the prosecution, but the prosecution itself should be passed on to the Member States, who should have an obligation to prosecute.
For this reason, while we support the spirit of part of the proposal, namely the need for a Community instrument, we do not accept the instrument identified, and so we will abstain. . (DE) Fraud in the EU results in losses in the region of EUR 1 000 million a year.
Agreeing in principle with the need to address this form of crime does not mean that we can show contempt for the various national criminal-law solutions of the Member States, arising from their own legal systems and traditions and much less allows us to discredit their abilities to dispense justice, in cooperation wherever necessary (Art 31 TEU).
The express idea of creating a European system of criminal and procedural law that far exceeds the strict bounds of this report (and the provisions of the Treaties) is clear proof of this, since there has been no broad and thorough debate, or any serious discussion of all the implications arising from this. - (SV) I voted in favour of the report.
The wording would make it possible for a future European Prosecutor's mandate to be extended to include new areas of responsibility, over and above financial crimes against the EU.
It is also possible further to deepen intergovernmental cooperation in this area.
