Transfers of defence-related products (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Rühle, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on simplifying terms and conditions of transfers of defence-related products within the Community - C6-0468/2007 -.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, unfortunately, this is yet another agreement at first reading - but I expect Mrs Weiler will talk about that later.
Simplification in a field as sensitive as this absolutely must take account of the fact that there are repeated contraventions in the EU against the restrictions on exports to third countries.
With this directive, we have strengthened the Member States' responsibilities.
Nevertheless, it must be noted that the directive is based on internal market legislation, on Article 95 of the EC Treaty - in other words, on the first pillar of the treaty, which has unfortunately made it impossible to directly include foreign-policy agreements under the second pillar, such as the European Code of Conduct on arms exports.
The directive will therefore increase the pressure on Member States that have so far authorised and managed arms exports with no visibility.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a big step towards an internal market for defence-related products.
Lastly, I am also expecting that we will all gain in terms of security.
I would reiterate what Mr Rühle just said regarding current practice, and I entirely agree with her that more checks are needed in this connection.
In that sense, I think this is a very good report, and we are really taking an important step towards an internal market for defence-related products.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I am really delighted with the adoption of this draft directive, since, for the first time, a Community instrument is going to simplify transfers between Member States in an extremely sensitive area, that of defence-related products.
Indeed, we have struck a balance that enables us to guarantee that the Member States' security interests will be preserved, since continuing reference is made to Articles 30 and 296 of the Treaty, and that the Member States will be able to pursue the intergovernmental, letter-of-intent-type cooperation that is under way.
In the same way, this text is part of a revival of the European Security and Defence Policy, which the European Council just decided on on Friday, and, for example, we shall succeed in achieving this famous objective, 60 000 men in 60 days.
These are not normal goods - they are not sweets or leisure goods - but objects that need to be carefully controlled.
There are, of course, restrictions in the Treaty itself, in Articles 30 and 296, which give the Member States significant responsibilities in this area.
I should like to thank Mrs Rühle for all her hard work in developing it.
This is - and even the European Parliament's press release says so - clearly about strengthening the European arms industry against external competition.
If one looks at recital 24 of the directive, even the Code of Conduct, which has now happily become legally binding, is left to the discretion of the Member States.
The justifications given for the Commission's proposal for a new system for transfers of defence-related products are efficiency and security of supply, and the rapporteur, Mrs Rühle, supports the Commission in the main.
According to its statistic, which you heard earlier, around 11 000 licences are currently issued annually, and not one has been refused since 2003.
This is a very worthwhile proposal, and I am sure the House will support it tomorrow. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Rühle.
The common market in defence-related products and the promotion of competitiveness are not, in my view, an end in themselves.
We want greater transparency, and that is what we are getting.
A vote in favour of this proposal for a directive may mark a significant step for Member States in terms of defence-related aspects.
It would be extraordinary for the Commission to spend so much time on such a project if it were merely intended to simplify rules and procedures.
I should like to highlight that neither the European Parliament of which we are Members, nor the European Union itself are insensitive to the general situation in the world and in its individual regions.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two brief comments.
Issues surrounding the control of arms exports in countries outside the European Union, disarmament, and arms control in general, cannot be dealt with in an internal market directive.
As long as we in the Member States of the European Union consider armed forces to be necessary, and as long as we believe that we can only guarantee our security by maintaining - or perhaps we should say by also maintaining - armed forces, European taxpayers will have a right to expect to get as efficient a service as possible for their money.
Simply by doing away with the licences we currently still have, we will be able to save EUR 450 million a year, just from that one action.
We must draw attention to the improved performance of the European market in defence-related products, in other words to the improved efficiency of our defence and security - because that is what it comes down to in reality - and to the reduction in our dependence on arms from countries outside Europe.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I, too, would like to reiterate that this is an internal-market directive and not a foreign-policy directive: I think that is a very important point.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 16 December 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) I should like to express my support for the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on simplifying terms and conditions for the transfer of defence-related products within the Community (COM (2007) 0765).
