Since all European Union Member States, both those seeking the waiving of visas and those already in the programme, are concerned by this and are being approached by the United States, Coreper - the ambassadors of the European Union Member States - adopted on 5 March a common baseline: a set of common parameters that will guide the discussions the Member States will have individually with the United States.
It is simply not possible to abandon, to renounce, not only our European legislation but also our common criteria, on the basis of which we have been negotiating.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Madam President, the common visa policy is a matter of Community competence.
The Council says the American visa waiver programme should finally create the same rights for all EU citizens.
The Commission declares that joining the Schengen area at the end of last year was a great success for the citizens of the new Member States.
Those countries that already participate in the visa waiver programme must stop treating this as a problem only for those who are still waiting to be included.
Fourthly, can you assure us, Commissioner, that you will not propose or agree to any change in the current PNR agreement, the common European visa policy, or other European policies?
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, the business of data exchanges between the United States and the European Union has been fraught with major problems from day one.
I therefore find it downright grotesque that individual Member States are now going even further than the agreement requires and are letting themselves be drawn into a kind of horse-trading in which visa waivers are being bartered for the transfer of even more data.
Citizens of these Member States would certainly be given the right to enter the United States without a visa, as other EU citizens already can, but at what cost for all of us?
I call upon the Council to reach a consensus on freezing these undesirable bilateral agreements as a matter of urgency, and call upon Commissioner Frattini and the European Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, to bring all the instruments at their disposal to bear. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people have already said this, but I must say it again: I believe that this is a particularly serious matter.
It is serious firstly because our American allies have deliberately - it must be borne in mind that they have done it deliberately - chosen to deal separately with European Union Member States on matters which they know very well are part of the competences of the European Union, taking advantage of that to make unreasonable security demands.
It is a sad sight to see the Member States lining up separately in order to be able to offer their citizens the prospect of a trip to the United States without a visa, in exchange for security measures that the Americans could not negotiate with the Union as such.
The Commissioner should tell that to his successor, whether temporary or permanent. (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as we heard earlier, the situation is untenable.
It is certainly true that the US is willing to negotiate on including countries in the visa waiver programme only on a bilateral basis since it is obliged to do so by its domestic legislation.
In my opinion, the Czech Republic and other countries should and can continue bilateral negotiations with the United States.
I would just like to warn against any outside pressure at EU level on some individual Member States that might involve political risks and discredit the image of the European Union, especially now when ratification of the new Reform Treaty is taking place in the individual states. (NL) The Americans' 2008 tactic of divide and rule sets the pattern in transatlantic relations.
Like Ms Hennis-Plasschaert, I note that they are not here to answer that charge tonight. (SK) Slovakia, as well as Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and some other EU Member States have long been struggling, just like the Czech Republic, to get on the list of countries that will not need a visa to travel to the United States.
I am in favour of adopting a compromise between a single EU approach and rules according to which the Member States could also engage in bilateral negotiations with the US. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that, with the exception of Slovenia, all citizens of the new accession countries travelling to America must obtain a visa.
Let us remember that this step is fully in accordance with EU law and no one should dispute it. (DE) Madam President, we also discussed this issue in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, and there is no one on that committee who does not sympathise with the situation in which the new Member States find themselves, particularly with regard to visa policy and bilateral dealings with the United States.
In this case it is not legitimate, because it undermines a united approach on the part of the European Union and thereby obstructs the conclusion of an agreement that would apply to the whole territory of the European Union.
The next step is to consider how we can obtain a general arrangement on the visa issue.
It was said many times that we, meaning the European Union, must pursue a single and common approach when dealing with the United States.
It is only since that date that the United States has said that it is willing to extend the visa waiver programme.
It is not therefore possible to speak of four years, leaving aside the fact that negotiations with the United States date back even further, but of less than 12 months of negotiations on the basis of a new law.
In my view, we must work with the United States to bring all European citizens within a regime where they do not need personal visas, without some Member States thinking that they can achieve such a result before the others.
Because that would give the upper hand in negotiations to our interlocutor, in this case our American friends, who may well be our friends and allies, but are nevertheless conducting negotiations, and will press on with those negotiations if they find any weaknesses in Europe's house.
I should now like to say that those who supported the European PNR were right, because one of the key points of the mandate that we are requesting is that there can be no exchanges of data and information over and above what is provided for in that agreement, and if such requests were to be made, the European Union would reject them.
As a result, however, of that agreement which some criticised and others supported, we can now tell our American friends very clearly that it is not possible to go beyond the European PNR agreement.
The Commissioner said that some Members opposed the agreement and others endorsed it.
