I remind you that Greece, as well as Germany and France, are countries that belong to the Schengen area.
The Danish people have a right to know in advance of the referendum on 28 September where the "no" campaign funds have come from.
I would like to commend the European Commission on what is an extremely well argued and well presented report, drawn up in record time considering the relative lack of resources of the departments concerned and the demands laid down at the European Council in Tampere last year.
The Commission has come forward with an excellent draft directive which will permit third-country nationals legally resident in a Member State of the Union to reside in another Member State as is required if a true area of freedom, security and justice is to be established.
The Commission has said, quite rightly in my view, that the goal of zero immigration mentioned in past Community discussion was never realistic and sought instead to put forward realistic proposals for the protection of the rights of third-country nationals in accordance with the many international treaties that have been signed by Member States, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international covenants of 1966 on civil and political rights and on economic and social rights.
The importance of the family as a unit is also recognised and the importance of making a success of the integration of third-country nationals residing lawfully in EU Member States is the whole basis of these proposals.
The Commission proposal quite clearly recognises the difference of legal treatment between descending and ascending relatives.
It is evident that, in the context of the international legal framework, mention must be made of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
There is no similar convention dealing with ascending relatives, but it is clearly the case that if we wish to live up to our humanitarian ideals we must provide the opportunity for third-country nationals to bring dependent relatives in the ascending line into their family units.
This has been a matter of some debate within the committee.
I am pleased to see that a number of amendments to the final report have been put forward; in particular Amendments Nos 18 to 23, which propose a compromise on this matter.
Amendment No 6 recognises the very real problems that the administrations of the Member States currently have with the workload created by the demands of family reunification.
Amendment No 9 allows each Member State to introduce more favourable provisions than those set down in the directives, and insists that these new rules will not lower current standards of protection.
Amendment No 11 deals with the grounds on which a Member State may deny the right of entry to a relative, namely on grounds of public policy, domestic security and public health.
Parliament had relatively little time to look at it and inevitably not all of the compromises which were necessary to reach a favourable outcome were achieved in committee.
Mr President, my task as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was a relatively easy one compared with that of the honourable members in the committee responsible, and I would like to congratulate them all on the outcome, even if we do have to discuss a few compromise amendments in plenary today.
I would also like to say how impressed I am with the logistical quality of the draft directive, which certainly cannot be said of all the Commission' s draft directives.
Pursuant to the new Article 63 of the EU Treaty, it is now the Community' s task to settle the matter of family reunification, and the Community must take these measures in accordance with the provisions of international law, in particular the European Convention of Human Rights and the other instruments of international law already mentioned by our committee chairman.
The right to respect for family life is a universal human right.
This particularly applies to the right of EU citizens themselves to live together in their home land with family members originating from a third country and not to be in the position where the only way they can live with them as a family is to avail themselves of freedom of movement and settle in another Member States.
The Commission has put forward the first draft of a legislative initiative in this field, which concerns the right to family reunification.
The Commission lumps economically motivated immigration and asylum together.
Another problem with the present draft directive concerns the widening of the definition of family.
It is not right to bring people to a foreign country without making the necessary provisions for foreign nationals and local people to live together in peace and friendship.
We must clarify today in this Parliament whether we want the immigrants and refugees who live amongst us to do so legally with their families, giving them the opportunity to live a normal life and to integrate fully into our society, or whether we are going to continue to feed the myth that they are provisional co-citizens whose final destiny is to return to the hypothetical homes they came from.
This issue is so important that we must make an effort to reach a consensus.
I would like us today to send a message to the people who live amongst us that they can do so with their right to live as a family recognised.
We have also applied these rules we are debating to people who are under alternative protection.
Mr President, the ELDR Group is backing this report as one of the essential building blocks in constructing the area of freedom, security and justice and in following up the Tampere Summit, which rightly made it a priority to establish rights of free movement for legally resident third-country nationals.
To take up some specific points in the report, first of all on the inclusion of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection.
The ELDR Group would regret that because we think that, like refugees, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection should be in.
On ascending relatives, we consider that Amendment No 20 is superfluous because there is a general right in Article 9 of the proposal to apply a non-discriminatory means test to all entrants.
The proposal will not force Member States to give legal recognition to unmarried partnerships, but if they do they must treat unmarried partners like spouses.
Mr President, we are going to vote on a report today that has caused a political stir in certain EU States.
The Commission and Commissioner Vitorino have done some sterling work here, and I would like, on behalf of my group, to take the opportunity to thank them for it.
Sadly there were, and still are, reservations against including refugees benefiting from temporary protection in this directive, and against recognising same-sex relationships as the basis for family reunification.
This debate demonstrates once again that, unfortunately, integration and migration policy is still a controversial issue in the European Union.
I regret this decision, and the fact that Ministers for Home Affairs appear to carry more weight in this Parliament than the honourable members, who are expected to act according to their consciences.
In dealing in depth with the issue of the right to live as a family, and in defining the precise conditions for its application, the text enables us to hold a real debate.
Far from casting suspicion a priori, as is often the case, on those who wish to live with their spouses and children, the text recognises the legitimacy of such a right even if, in fact, this right must now apply equally to homosexual couples and to all other categories, as the honourable Member has just said, especially in the case of asylum seekers.
The text also takes into account that nowadays there are several types of families in our society, especially certain forms of cohabitation, and that we cannot therefore discriminate against immigrants who live in the same way.
We must also recognise that the waves of immigrants towards the countries of the European Union have been more or less constant for a couple of decades.
In other words, by implementing restrictive laws, Member States have not succeeded in reducing the overall number of entrants; they have simply reduced the number of legal immigrants while increasing the numbers of illegal immigrants by declaring them illegal.
By underpinning these values, this draft directive will not only have positive consequences for immigrants and their families, but it will also be a symbol for refuge and integration.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text that has been presented to us, and in fact the entire immigration policy that is being pursued by European institutions, exhibits a worrying trend.
What were initially nothing more than a temporary work contracts are tending to turn into permanent residence.
The only solution worthy of the name is to organise family reunification but to organise it in the country of origin with the support of the policy of cooperation to which end these methods should be employed.
I am sorry that the committee has behaved in this way, because I believe a sledgehammer approach does the cause more harm than good, particularly in an area as sensitive as this.
We have no intention of voting for this document unless it includes our amendments and follows our political line. (Applause from the right) Mr President, after the recent events in Dover, when 29 illegal Chinese immigrants suffocated to death, the tragedy of illegal immigration and the methods of responding to it have become a considerable problem, which the European Union must definitely tackle.
What is more, this right has long existed in the form of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, according to which all persons have the right to family life.
As has already been said, this directive is the first example of this type of structure resulting from the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere European Council, which is why it is so important.
The directive proposed by the Commission enables us to take a major step forward, under conditions that are entirely satisfactory, but with all the necessary guarantees.
Let us remember that this is the first text in the process of integrating the 'justice and internal affairs' pillar into community policy in the wake of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere European Council last November.
Mr President, I am of the firm opinion that this draft directive is a major step forward.
The laws in force provide for the right of residence to be revoked if there is a break-up in the matrimonial household, effectively outlawing divorce, and, as has just been said, homosexual couples are still not recognised.
No one would dispute the fact that families have the right to live together.
That is the crucial problem we face with this directive.
Mr President, I would like to begin by warmly congratulating the European Commission and especially Commissioner Vitorino, on its extremely constructive legislative proposal on the issue of family reunification.
At last, Europe is on the move, after decades of zero immigration and, more especially, after so many years of refusal by Europeans to grant third-country nationals residing lawfully in the European Union their fundamental human rights.
Recognising the right to family life is one of the basic conditions for the integration of refugees and migrants in the social life of the country in which they reside.
Yet I would like to say that I understand the qualms of many governments, including my own, concerning this draft directive.
Indeed, countries such as Germany, where millions of refugees and migrants have sought refuge, are shouldering an enormous burden.
But at the same time I would like to point out and to highlight the enormous contribution that refugees and migrants make to the economic development of our countries, through their work and through taxation.
Commissioner Vitorino, although I hold you in high regard - and have said as much on many occasions in this House - the Commission document itself is shot through with negligent ignorance as to the situation in the very Member States that have been generous enough to accord large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers the right to protection and hospitality over the past few years.
You ask too much of our society, and in so doing, run the risk of creating a breeding ground for something that we have always fought against in this House.
The liberal and social democrat delegates from the large Member States - because so far today, I have only heard speakers of this political persuasion from the small Member States - must ask themselves whether they are remotely in touch with the electorate, whether they are aware of the consequences, and whether they have grasped that more authority for Parliament in these matters would also bring increased responsibility.
It gives free rein to all kinds of interpretations.
There is only one thing we can do here, and that is reject this proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time since the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force that the European Parliament has been consulted on a Commission proposal for a Council directive on the matter of the lawful immigration of persons originating from third countries.
The Commission has decided that a proposal on family reunification should start us off on this journey, this considerable effort to construct a common European immigration policy.
I believe family reunification is a concept that is thoroughly coherent with the commitments that all the Member States undertook several decades ago in the sphere of international law.
From the reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to the international convenants made under the United Nations in 1966, to the European Convention on Human Rights itself - in all these instruments of international law family protection is upheld as an essential factor for ensuring social peace.
I do not believe anybody can deny that family reunification is also an important instrument for the integration of immigrants from third countries into their host societies.
It must also be recognised that family reunification is significant in numerical terms because it is today one of the main causes of immigration into the countries of Europe.
Those who refuse to see that this directive aims at setting up legal rules to respond to a situation that already exists on the ground and try to blame the Commission for inventing a new flow of migrants are therefore being unfair in their analysis of the actual situation that we are addressing.
This is that family reunification is a factor which promotes the personal stability of the immigrant, since family life is always an important instrument for integration into the host country.
The Heads of State and Government at Tampere in fact unanimously stressed the need to ensure equitable treatment for third-country nationals who are lawfully resident in the Member States of the Union.
Instead it is a right subject to conditions, whether procedural in nature or material conditions regarding the definition of the status of the family members in the country to which they have been admitted and regarding the rights that they enjoy.
For our part, we are also willing to introduce an amended proposal as quickly as possible so that we can achieve a positive outcome during the French Presidency.
I should like to thank all the Members who have taken part in the debate.
It is therefore natural that it should be a lively, even passionate debate, and one in which there are divergent views.
I should like to explain to you all what the Commission' s position is on the more difficult political issues in this directive.
I accept, however, that it is necessary to exclude the beneficiaries of temporary protection or subsidiary protection.
I am convinced that a certain kind of beneficiary of temporary or subsidiary protection should also have the right to family reunification.
I do recognise, however, that the lack of harmonisation of this concept at European level and especially the Commission' s intention to submit a directive on temporary and subsidiary protection to Parliament and the Council next year will allow us to deal with the right to family reunification in that directive very soon.
We therefore accept an amendment to the proposal excluding beneficiaries of temporary or subsidiary protection.
Where issues relating to the concept of the family are concerned, I should like to make it very clear that in this proposal the Commission is not interfering in the matter of defining the concept of the family.
This proposal does not say that all the Member States will be obliged to recognise unmarried partnerships and accept unmarried partners under all circumstances.
We are simply saying that in those countries where unmarried partnerships are placed on an equal footing with marriage in domestic law for their own nationals, these unmarried partnerships must also be recognised for the purpose of family reunification for third-country nationals.
I should therefore like to state clearly that there is nothing in this proposal favouring family reunification for polygamous marriages.
But how could you explain treating the children of a second polygamous marriage differently from the children of a first marriage or the children of an unmarried partnership?
Finally, Mr President, the Commission is willing to accept a number of other amendments and other modifications regarding the rights of family members, the conditions and clarification of the conditions for family reunification, the situation in which the person being reunited may acquire independent status, and concerning procedural rules.
I should like the final opinion of Parliament to have as broad a support-base as possible.
The debate is closed.
This is in my view the crux of the problem described in my report and will determine the way we vote.
Today, for the majority of us who live in Europe, European citizenship is still a concept that is devoid of meaning.
If we want Europe to be more than a vast free trade area, we must take action to ensure that European citizenship goes beyond the status of a concept and takes root in the everyday life of the citizens of Europe.
The directives that have been examined concern Community nationals, but they must be modified in favour of third-county nationals.
Although Member States have made great progress in ensuring the free movement of goods, services and capital, it is clear that we are no nearer to achieving the same for people.
In June 1990, the Council adopted three Commission draft directives to extend this right to all Member State nationals, even if they were not economically active.
The transposition of these directives was doubly problematic.
Because the acceptance procedures are long and difficult, it is often necessary to take out a second health insurance in the host country.
Finally, administrative procedures are too long - more than six months - and become very costly when frequent renewal is necessary, as the period of validity is normally two years rather than five.
I will now present the main measures advocated with a view to overcoming these problems.
It will still be possible at a later date to implement a whole raft of specific measures to help citizens depending on their particular situation.
This reworking of the existing directives must dissociate the fundamental right of movement and residence from any economic considerations.
Until these mechanisms can be put in place, a transitional measure may be to introduce a one-year residence permit for all applicants.
Third-country citizens living and working legally in a Member State must benefit from the same rights as European citizens.
Furthermore, it is a pity that the Council has not followed up this proposal of citizenship and residence.
The Treaty statement that every citizen should have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of Member States and the reality are still far apart.
They received a standard letter from our local social security office asking them to attend for a two-hour interview and to bring with them as many items as possible on a non-exhaustive list of about twenty documents such as a passport, bank statements, or household bills to "establish their identity".
The Committee on Petitions was asked to submit an opinion because it is a special committee that is directly concerned with the problems facing the general public.
We are constantly hearing of cases where EU citizens are unable to reside in another Member State.
Therefore, let us urge the EU Member States to implement the existing Community law provisions without delay, before we consider extending these rights to third-country nationals at any rate.
For example, section 20 of the resolution extends family reunification to non-Community families and their relatives in ascending and descending lines, who are not dependent on the resident, which would increase admission without restrictions.
Furthermore, I believe that all the false logic which is used when referring to migrant workers has no place in this debate, not so much because of the subject matter but rather because it is not appropriate for the study of these directives.
In order to facilitate their mobility, we should free them of unnecessary costs and make their residence compatible with their periods of study or apprenticeship.
Finally, I would also like to point out that it makes no sense to link public order, as section 6 of the resolution does, with the Schengen area in a proposal aimed at the citizens of the European Union, who are not governed by the Schengen legislation but by Community directives, in particular those relating to public order.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking the European Commission for its sustained efforts in keeping the right of residence - within the context of the free movement of persons in Europe - high on the agenda; this is once again borne out by these two communications on the right of residence.
Secondly, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
She has opted for a broad approach, Mr Hernandez Mollar, and her report covers right of residence for all citizens, including the economically active and those from third countries, topics which are, in fact, covered by proposals already submitted.
My group supports this approach because, despite all initiatives from the Commission, despite the Veil report, despite the action programme and despite the legislative initiatives, the proposals remain on the Council table with very little happening to them.
Firstly, it has become apparent recently that the European labour market is relying increasingly on mobility; an ever dwindling number of companies manage to fill their vacancies.
Whether they choose to live together, and whether they are single, gay or lesbian, they should also be able to claim right of residence in those countries where these types of relationship are recognised; if not, we would be denying thousands of people the right to live in families.
We therefore give this report by Mrs Boumediene-Thiery our unconditional support.
Mr President, there has thankfully been a change in European Community law over the last 30 years from freedom of movement of persons being seen as purely an economic issue - functional mobility - to it being seen as a personal right.
But the real bottom line for Liberals is whether the Member States believe in and respect the notion of European citizenship, not only allowing the citizens of a Member State and their families to move around but also conferring such rights, to the greatest extent possible, on legally resident third-country nationals and their families - which unfortunately were not covered by the Commission report.
This banishment violates the principle of equality before the law that is enshrined in Article 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Finally, it is important to facilitate the granting and renewal of permanent residence permits, as a residence permit of very brief duration leads to employment of very brief duration, discrimination and exploitation.
Finally, the time has come to promote a European citizenship that is based on residence.
The right to vote must be extended to non-Community nationals if we want to get rid of xenophobia and racism in Europe.
Mr President, as the rapporteurs who have just spoken said, although the right to free movement is deemed to be one of the most important aspects of the fundamental right of European citizenship, it is a right which is all too often subject to restrictions, and the large number of petitions to the European Parliament on precisely this subject are testimony to this.
I would first of all like to focus on a point strongly emphasised in the report: the need to fight against all abusive and excessively restrictive interpretations of the concept of public policy by some Member States.
For example, someone who has lived in a country since childhood or, at any rate, for a large number of years, and therefore has cultural, social and family ties in that country, should not be deported unless he or she is convicted of a crime which is deemed to be, in effect, a serious offence, under the criminal law of the country of residence.
Sadly, this is very often not the case.
It is therefore all the more extraordinary that 50 years after the signing of the Convention of Human Rights, which ironically was signed in Rome, and one year after the Treaty of Amsterdam upholding such rights, that one European family, which for a thousand years has been involved with the continent's history, is being denied the fundamental rights my colleague has mentioned.
The Watson report demands such rights for family reunion and the Boumediene-Thiery report for freedom of movement and residence, even for third-country nationals and even for convicted criminals.
This issue goes far beyond individual families and goes right to the heart of the Union's respect for its own laws and treaties.
Firstly the Commission has failed to deal with the issue of the 12 to 14 million third-country nationals living legally in the Union who currently suffer discrimination and, outside the Union's island States can move freely de facto but cannot do so legally, which of course creates situations in which they are exploited and used in illegal ways.
With all due respect for the rapporteur, I have to say that we also have a problem with a number of areas that she has not dealt with, one of which is the issue of football hooliganism.
I am generally in favour of free movement but I think it needs to be limited.
Europol should be used to prevent the free movement of people who have been convicted of football-related crimes to ensure that they do not cause the same kind of trouble as at previous World Cup and European championship tournaments.
I hope that the Danish Government will use the provisions in this instance.
I naturally hope that the free movement of people who have the misfortune to be HIV-positive is not restricted in any way on grounds of public health.
We might say that this right contributes towards a practical and concrete expression of the concept of European citizenship, in that the great challenge facing us at the moment is to turn this legally recognised right into a practical reality that is implemented in citizens' everyday lives.
I also agree with those who have pointed out that the transposition of these directives has taken place too slowly, or even incorrectly in some cases.
In addition, we must also face up to the difficulties arising out of implementation of the directive on special measures concerning the movement and residence of citizens of the Union which are justified on grounds of public policy, public security or public health, in that there should be guidelines not only for the Member States, which have so far interpreted the provisions of the directive in quite a variety of ways, but also for the citizens regarding the rights conferred on them.
The Member States may impose restrictions on the right to free movement of Community citizens, particularly in matters of entry to and expulsion from their territory as well as the issuing or renewal of residence permits, where this is justified on grounds of public policy, public security or public health.
Member States cannot, however, abuse such prerogatives in a European Union based on the rule of law, respect for human rights and particularly respect for the European Convention on Human Rights as well as, soon, a Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Personally, in tabling Amendment No 15, I support the pensioners, for although the measure facilitates the movement of non-EU citizens, it does not remove the difficulties facing its own citizens, particularly its disabled citizens, who wish to travel within Europe.
Therefore, our goal must be to bring about the free movement of pensioners and disabled citizens in Europe.
Indeed, I think that, for the Commission, the establishment of European citizenship has created a new legal and political environment and, for our part, we intend to draw all the practical lessons we can both in the legislative field and in the field of day-to-day public administration.
With regard to the motion for a resolution that you have just presented, I would simply like to address two or three comments directed at the Commission.
The three directives on the right of residence of the non-economically active have, I am sure, enabled thousands of European Union citizens to benefit from this right without encountering any particular problems.
The action of the Commission also applies to the laws of Member States.
One could, in my view, cite several cases where this intervention has brought about modification of the legislation of Member States and sometimes even the examination, by the Court of Justice, of issues to which it has provided positive solutions.
Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this morning we debated the directive on family reunification and that the Tampere Conclusions require the Commission to present a proposal on the recognition of entry, admission and residence conditions and on the legal status of third-country nationals within the European Union legally.
For all these reasons, the Commission shares the opinion expressed by several Members of this House on the need for a global reworking of existing texts within the context of a single legal instrument, which will organise and guarantee the unimpeded exercise of the freedom of movement and residence.
The unique status of a European Union citizen necessarily creates the need for a unique general system of movement and residence in response to the demand to enrich the content of European citizenship in accordance with the political aspirations of the Union.
This draft directive concerns strategic environmental assessments which, in brief, involve a systematic process for identifying, analysing and assessing the influence and likely effects of plans and programmes upon the environment.
Parliament tabled 29 amendments, of which 15 are more or less to be found in the common position.
Nor can we accept that financial plans and the whole of the defence sector are exempt from strategic environmental assessments.
Amendments 11 and 31 also worry me a little.
Mr President, this is a small but significant measure to extend the duties of Member States to carry out strategic environmental assessments on the planning framework as well as on the actual plans where the implementation would or could have a significant impact on the environment.
All Member States voted for the common position, but some made it clear that they would go very little further than that.
We will however be rejecting some of her amendments, notably those that seek to extend the system to all financial plans, to defence and civil defence, to consultation beyond what is reasonable and to the general policies she has just mentioned, which become more of a wish-list than firm proposals.
However, we agree that it makes no sense to exclude projects financed wholly or partially by the European Union, especially structural funds, and we certainly agree that it makes sense to talk to neighbouring states outside the European Union.
We also of course have to consider Amendment No 26, in the name of some of our German colleagues, which rejects the common position.
We believe that to be a good thing and my PPE-DE Group will therefore not be supporting Amendment No 26 and will vote for the common position.
We shall then vote for the amendments we supported in committee and for one further clarifying amendment which has been submitted since, but we shall oppose the amendments which we believe are a step too far in terms of what is desirable, practical and acceptable.
Mr President, the directive we are about to vote on represents a major step forwards.
The amendments approved by the Committee on the Environment substantially improve the Council's common position.
In this context, I feel that plans and projects financed from the Structural Funds must without exception be governed by the directive, seeing that, in practice, they represent all the programmes implemented, particularly in regions whose development is lagging behind.
It is unreasonable to do what is at present done with EU funds and to support such activities within these sectors as are opposed from an environmental point of view in other contexts.
We are basically in favour of the proposal of the Environment Committee and its rapporteur.
There is a directive on the right to information, No 313, which has been repeatedly ignored by the Member States and by local and regional authorities.
Likewise, we must include the quality of the studies and the issue of health amongst the significant sectors affected.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate and in so doing acknowledge the positive role of Parliament in setting the agenda for the highest standards of environmental protection.
There is of course a cost factor in environmental management, but equally an economic return, which not easily quantified but exists none the less.
The proposed directive, which requires an environmental assessment before the adoption of a regional or county plan, makes good environmental and economic sense.
Finally, I would appeal to professional planners to use their common sense by taking account of the views of public representatives and community groups.
Mr President, strategic environmental impact assessment is an instrument which allows governments to assess whether policy proposals, plans and programmes are compatible with the concept of sustainable development.
In that case, a public administration may decide to scrap a plan, programme or proposal, call these off in good time or replace them by environmentally-friendly alternatives.
Mr President, the best way to integrate environmental issues with all areas of policy is to get the environmental perspective in the picture at the earliest possible stage.
In this connection I have to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a new instrument and it accords with Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which concerns the integration of environmental policies into other areas.
Accordingly, Guido Sacconi' s Amendment No 31 has my unequivocal support.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for her constructive approach and for being open to dialogue with all the interested parties - including the Commission - which I hope will finally enable us all to achieve a positive result in relation to this directive.
The joint position clearly distinguishes the plans for which the strategic environmental assessment is obligatory from those for which it is necessary to make a selection, a screening.
Firstly, there must be a balance between the plans for which the strategic environmental assessment is obligatory and those for which we have to make a selection.
Secondly, the scope of the directive must, in any event, be sufficiently broad and systematically include those plans which have a significant impact on the environment.
Nevertheless, we believe that some amendments go too far and propose the strategic environmental assessment for plans which will not probably have a significant impact on the environment.
Certain amendments would reduce the scope, such as Amendment No 3, which limits the scope to the plans financed by the EU, or Amendments Nos 11 and 31, which allow States to choose the level or levels of planning with which these strategic environmental assessments will be carried out.
Now, if Parliament were to adopt these amendments together with those which broaden the scope to plans with no significant impact, it seems to me that we would end up with a text which is inconsistent with itself.
In my view, this fear is not sufficiently justified.
The carrying out of assessments at various levels of planning is not a duplication of the assessment, especially given the safeguards contained in Articles 4, 5 and 10 of the joint position which are intended to prevent just the kind of duplication which Mr Lange, for example, referred to.
We therefore believe that, by incorporating the provisions on the screening and the definition of the scope into their national legislation, Member States would be liable to exceed the requirements of the directive and, for that reason, we will not accept these amendments.
I do not believe it is necessary to point out that this directive on the strategic environmental assessment is a key instrument for integrating the environment into policies and for promoting sustainable development in the European Union.
Mr President, having carefully examined all the amendments, I can tell you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 5 (sections 2 and 5), 6, 12, 28 (section 1) and 29.
Amendments Nos 9 (the part which refers to the requirement to justify that the strategic environmental assessment is not necessary), 10 (sections 1 and 2), 15, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24 and 25 are acceptable in principle, providing that there is some rewording of its content.
The Commission cannot, however, under any circumstances, accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5 (sections 1, 3 and 4), 7, 8, 9 (in the part on the requirement to justify the need for a strategic environmental assessment), 10 (section 3), 11, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21, 22, 26, 27, 28 (section 2), 30 and 31.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
A recent study by KIMO Coast Watch has shown, for example, that there is still a growing volume of waste on beaches, that the sea is still being polluted and that state-of-the-art technology is being used to discharge sludge into the sea.
This was the reason why the Commission was right to come up with a directive which was the subject of conciliation not so long ago.
Small ports will need to make a considerable effort to accommodate this directive in the foreseeable future.
The significance of the directive resides first and foremost in the fact that all Member States will be obliged to ensure that port reception facilities are set up, within the next two years, in all ports subject to this requirement.
Secondly, as my honourable friend has already said, we have scored two other victories for marine protection and the citizens of the European Union.
Mr President, and I would have been very surprised if you had not been the one to chair this sitting again.
After all, it is a good day for Europe' s seas, as it for you personally, Mr President, because I know you are a keen diver.
We would all be delighted if you had even cleaner waters to dive in in Europe.
Nevertheless, the 30% introduces and establishes the principle of a 'no special fee system' .
Thirdly, all Member States must carry out checks on at least 25% of shipping.
So it is a good day for Europe' s seas and also a good day for you, Mr President.
The conditions for the delivery of waste by ships at Community ports have been the topic of many a discussion.
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, this is perhaps the first time I have addressed the European Parliament without having to express any worries or concerns about the subject of the debate.
It is a step forward.
I hope that this tradition will change under the French Presidency.
In any event, we are all in favour of better cooperation and the speedier progress of the work of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
Mr President, as a new Member of the European Parliament and as a permanent member of the Conciliation Committee for the first time, I have to say that I was satisfied with this procedure, which saw representatives of the main institutions of the European Union making every effort to achieve a happy medium, that is to say, between the possible and the feasible, bearing in mind existing conditions and possibilities, which are of course not the same for all Europe' s ports.
Let us not forget that the European ports in the Mediterranean face competition from the ports of North Africa, whereas the Baltic or North Sea ports do not face any competition.
The essential thing is that, by approving the joint text under debate, we will have a directive that will protect our seas and coastlines from pollution caused by ships, and we will also have enhanced the image of the European Union as a standard-bearer for environmental policy and as an example for the rest of the world to follow.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bouwman, for his efforts over quite a long period of time in negotiating this very satisfactory proposal which will - as all colleagues have said so far - significantly reduce the amount of pollution dumped illegally into the seas around Europe.
I particularly welcome the three-year review, because my only concern is that Member States should implement this legislation that they have now signed up to.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Bouwman on the publication of this text, which had been uncertain for a long time.
The principle of polluter pays is not working in the case in point, because the polluter cannot be identified.
If we want to settle this issue, we must move towards a universal fee system, which will be mandatory and not linked to the act of waste treatment.
I am among those who, in their capacity as French Members of Parliament, have made every effort to ensure that this text is published, even acting against the sympathies of their government towards this text or against its reservations.
It is clear that this text currently favours large ports and puts small ports, which are not equipped, at a disadvantage.
I therefore call on the Council to help Member States equip small ports, possibly in the framework of the Structural Funds, or in the form of some kind of loan, because small ports are also important elements of national and regional development and of regional and local economies.
And I believe that, if we provide small ports with waste treatment plants, we will secure the success of this directive.
In Finland, we have had such a system for waste oil since 1 June.
Mr President, the report by Mr Bouwman, which is the outcome of a long process, has in the interim become even more topical in France because of the shipwreck of the tanker, the Erika, on the occasion of which the Minister for the Environment did not see fit to interrupt his holiday.
We will, however, vote for this report, because it seems to be moving towards better prevention of pollution and because, wishing to remain at a general level, it leaves Member States a certain latitude in their choice of implementation tools.
During this time he has combined steadfastness with flexibility and intelligence to achieve a result which is acceptable to all the institutions and which will serve to make our seas cleaner.
I must tell you, for example, that this summer, one of the items in the news in the country I know best, Spain, involved the southern coastlines being affected by the pollution resulting from oil tankers cleaning our their holds in international waters.
I believe we have made a great deal of progress which will noticeably improve the marine environment in the face of the deliberate contamination by certain ships - because not all of them do this sort of thing - of our coastlines.
The current version of this directive has the support of everybody.
It has the support of the shipowners because it provides them with waste facilities, which already exist in some European ports but unfortunately not in all of them, particularly not in the smaller ports, where the Member States will have to make significant investments.
This version of the directive has the support of the ports, because it means that their investments in this type of facility will not put them at a competitive disadvantage, which has unfortunately been the case at times, since some ports have made considerable efforts and others have not.
It has the support of those sectors which are most sensitive to the problem of residues and the fight for sustainable development.
I believe that the whole of this House and also the representatives of the Council and the Commission are included in this group, not only the ecologists, but all those who are concerned about this type of problem.
This directive, of course, enjoys the support of the three institutions, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, because we know that it will mean something positive for our citizens.
I would like to thank the Council for its flexibility and its constructive will, and Parliament also, especially the rapporteur, for the work carried out over this period and during the conciliation procedure.
If over the next three years we see that the Member States' actions are not sufficient and the desired results are not obtained, the Commission reserves the right to present a new directive clearly establishing a minimum percentage which must be covered by the general fees or by an obligatory cleaning fee in the various European ports.
It is also the Commission' s responsibility to verify that that control of 25%, another key element of this directive, is carried out by the Member States.
I would like once again to thank Parliament for standing firm on the need for a strengthened mechanism for reviewing the fees system, which will undoubtedly allow us to move forward and make a detailed study of the current system which we have implemented and the consequences for the environment.
Mr President, it has already been said in the debates that we have suffered from the impact of the Erika tragedy, but the cleaning out of holds is equivalent to more than one Erika each year on Europe' s coastlines.
This does not mean that we are not going to move forward on issues relating to oil tankers and safety in the transport of polluting materials, such as oil and its derivatives, issues which we hope will not only make progress in this House and the Council, but which will also be supplemented by means of additional initiatives which, as the Commission has stated, will be presented shortly.
Thank you very much, Mrs de Palacio.
They had 607 nuclear explosions in the atmosphere between 1949 and 1990.
I understand that some Members are against the directive we are going to vote on, but the vote in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms was in favour of this directive by a clear majority.
This morning we held a very fruitful debate with the Commissioner and I believe that, almost a year after the Tampere Summit, not to approve the first proposed directive on harmonisation in justice and internal affairs in the field of immigration, presented to us by the Commission, would be inexplicable and there is no justification for it.
I understand that there are Members who are totally against the right of immigrants to live as families, but that is not the majority position of this House, as was reflected in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms.
I therefore ask that we go ahead with the vote on this Commission proposal.
Thank you, Mrs Terrón i Cusí.
I owe you an apology, Madam President, because I suspect you do not have in front of you the view of the rapporteur on all of the different amendments.
If that is the case I would very happily, before the vote, explain to the House my position on the amendments put forward by the committee.
But as for the amendments put forward for plenary, because they have been the subject of last minute debate, I will leave all of those to the wisdom of the House.
Thank you, Mr Watson.
You said this morning that you would endorse Amendment No 19 at today 's vote.
Madam President, I have to say that the vote was conducted at such a speed that I was hard pressed to keep up with your capacity to reach a decision.
On the amendments that have been adopted, the Commission has its doubts about Amendment No 9, and I believe we should reconsider our position.
As far as Amendment No 19 is concerned, which has been adopted, and which seeks to keep refugees within the scope of the draft directive, but to exclude from this directive on the right to family reunification people who benefit from temporary protection or subsidiary protection, I maintain the position that I expressed before this House during the debate.
We must accept that all the groups have the right to express themselves in the House, but the text, in principle, belongs to the groups which negotiated it.
If anybody wants to attach themselves to it, they must have the agreement of all the groups which have produced the text.
Madam President, the compromise procedure is an ad hoc procedure that is not covered by the rules of our Parliament.
Mr Barón Crespo, as you know, there is no Rule of Procedure that specifies this detail, but it is customary that those who have presented the text agree to sign it.
We cannot vote on a resolution when the groups say that neither the Council nor the Commission approves of the idea of creating a monitoring centre for industrial change.
Yes, Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, you have the floor.
Parliament was divided between supporters of two different solutions.
Eventually, a majority was achieved for one of the solutions, a majority which also encompassed the Group of the European United Left.
In normal administrative relations, this decision by Parliament would be final; not so in the European Union.
This procedure between the Council and Parliament resulted in a compromise which is rather noncommittal as long as it is not accompanied by a Commission statement.
This statement explains how the Commission interprets the word "substantial" in Article 8 (1).
Without the European Union, it would have been easier to reach an agreement between groups of separate countries for each sea.
I hope a review will take place within the next couple of years so that the original intentions of the Bouwman report can be brought to bear.
The people of Europe are deeply concerned about the pollution of the seas and the coastlines of the Member States.
The European Parliament echoed these legitimate concerns and amended the directive proposed by the European Commission on the management of waste discharged by ships in such a way as to make Member States aware of their responsibilities.
Those negotiating on behalf of Parliament and the Council reached the following agreement: all ships calling at a port of a Member State shall contribute significantly (a statement from the Commission annexed to the text considers that this means at least 30% of the costs), irrespective of actual use of the facilities.
I am satisfied with the compromise we have reached.
Morillon recommendation (A5-0206/2000) Madam President, I voted for the recommendation.
Madam President, I voted against the recommendation because I feel that the provision of aid was not made sufficiently conditional upon a genuine renewal of the Turkish State, genuine safeguarding of human rights and genuine protection of minors.
I believe however that the European Parliament should not have changed its stance on the amendments of the first reading: Article 5 (criteria for Turkey' s accession), Article 15 (suspension of cooperation with Turkey if there are obstacles to the issues of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, the protection or minorities), Article 35 (annual report on the protection of democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, compliance with international law).
The European Parliament could at least take advantage of the parallel desire of the Turkish Government to enter the European Union to demand such basic measures as the abolition of the death penalty, democratic freedoms and the cessation of the repression of the Kurdish people.
And, whilst the rapporteur of the European Parliament struggles to find a way of highlighting human rights without upsetting the soldiers who trample them underfoot, a Franco-German-Belgian consortium, as was recently reported in the press, is preparing to supply Turkey with a munitions factory.
In the space of 24 hours, you are going to approve a financial package of tens of millions of euros for Turkey and condemn this self-same country for bombing the Kurdish populations of northern Iraq, in violation of another country' s airspace.
And when I say condemn, I greatly exaggerate the import not only of the text but also of your intentions.
What has happened to the respect for human rights, which must condition who the European Union helps or cooperates with, and which you adapt to suit your own ends?
We rejected this amendment because companies need a clear framework within which to act.
In this case, under the guise of concern for the environment, the rapporteur wants to take charge of all the policies of the Member States.
The creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Free Trade Area has no other purpose than to make it easier for European industrial products to infiltrate the markets of these countries and to simultaneously place the riches of these countries under their predatory regimes.
The Communist Party of Greece is a strong advocate of cooperation between peoples based on equal conditions and without interference by one country in the domestic affairs of another.
It especially emphasises the responsibility of developed, capitalist countries for creating the current situation in underdeveloped countries, which is a result of its continuous pillaging of these countries.
This is written in Agenda 2000.
Not wanting any roll back and unable to achieve containment, European leaders are logically seeking to prevent these nomads from leaving their home countries.
Sketched out at the European Summit in Cannes in June 1995, established by the Barcelona Conference of November 1995 in the form of a Euro-Mediterranean partnership, and implemented by the MEDA Regulation of 23 July 1996, this Mediterranean policy of the European Union is based on a few regional and national investment projects.
It is a meagre amount: EUR 3.3 billion from 1995 to 1999, from Morocco to Gaza and the West Bank, even if, by adding to it the EUR 3.6 million in loans from the European Investment Bank, the financial contribution is greater than the EUR 4.4 billion given by the World Bank.
It is a meagre amount, not only because, in reality, these EUR 3.6 billion in commitment loans are in fact reduced to a collective payment of just EUR 648 million, but also because this step is not commensurate with the size of the problem.
Admittedly, for 2000-2006, MEDA II will increase loans of less than 47.1% to arrive at a financial package of EUR 8.5 billion.
However, the report on the reform of the MEDA programme does not set the right tone on a number of counts.
The European Union is fixated with the idea of concluding free trade agreements with the southern Mediterranean countries, although, paradoxically, they only have a one-sided liberalising effect.
The aim of the EU-Mediterranean partnership must be to redress the balance between the northern and southern regions of the Mediterranean area, improve people' s quality of life and promote understanding between the inhabitants of the various regions.
The countries of the southern Mediterranean region have been declared as the forecourts to fortress Europe.
This report safeguards, once again, the free movement of goods, services and capital.
As Member for a town that looks on to the Mediterranean, I hope that the Euro-Mediterranean partnership is given comparable resources for the period 2000-2006 to those given to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Aid to Mediterranean countries must be provided quickly and efficiently, in line with the European Union' s political priorities.
Increasing the European Parliament' s participation in MEDA' s decision-making process is another point that I believe to be crucial.
I also deplore the fact that, on an issue as important as changing the MEDA regulation, Parliament only has the right to state its opinion by means of the consultation procedure.
With the amendments that we are proposing in this report, the MEDA programme will have simplified, decentralised and transparent implementation procedures.
The European Commission has committed itself to increasing MEDA' s staffing levels, with a view to reaching similar levels of human resources enjoyed by other major programmes such as PHARE and TACIS.
Amending the MEDA regulation with a view to improving the decision-making process and simplifying the procedure for implementing projects is an important stage in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
I shall do my best to ensure that the vote on the MEDA budget is another stage confirming the importance we attach to the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
Varela Suanzes-Carpegna reports (A5-0194 and A5-0188/2000) Madam President, I voted for Mr Varela' s report on the Republic of Guinea fisheries agreement, even if prawns and tuna will not look very favourably on this report which regulates catching them.
Watson report (A5-0201/2000) Madam President, I would like to explain the votes on behalf of the ELDR Group.
Our overriding objective was to get this very important report through as the first report communitarising European Community immigration laws and as a matter of justice to third-country nationals.
We would have preferred beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to stay in as a matter of principle, because they are long-term legal residents, but we decided to assist the passage of the report.
Madam President, I voted against the Watson report, as did the whole of the Group of the European People' s Party, not just because the amendments tabled by the group - of which I have the pleasure of being a member - were not adopted, but also because the pensioners are tired of seeing European Union territory increasingly filling up with third-country nationals who do not have the means to live.
This document lays down that relatives of immigrants who live in certain European Union Member States may come and join their relatives - which is excellent and I agree with this - if the latter have an income equal to the minimum social security pension.
Although the Watson report on the proposal for a directive on family reunification is excessively liberal, it has just been adopted by the European Parliament, with a large majority of 323 votes to 212.
This vote also confirms what we have always said about communitising immigration policy by means of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is being applied here to the particular case of family reunification by means of Article 63(3) of the Treaty on European Union: the transfer of decision-making powers from national level to European level is being used not to strengthen nations, as some have claimed in order to deceive voters, but instead to demolish their defences more completely.
The proposal for a directive on family reunification, as approved by the Watson report, proclaims a Community-level law on family reunification which, in legal terms, does not yet exist at this level and which, in our opinion, should not be made law.
This is a decision taken by the immigrant himself, and if he is received into that State, it is not his place to claim the right to bring in other people.
It appears then that recognition of the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society is useful when it serves to justify family reunification, but is no longer useful when it could serve to support European families.
The proposal for a directive approved by the Watson report is not content to proclaim this non-existent law.
It gives the title 'applicant' not only to legal immigrants but also to people who have refugee status.
Moreover, the beneficiaries of family reunification are not just the applicant's spouse and children under 18, but also the unmarried partner who is in a stable relationship with the applicant, which will include homosexual couples when the Member State' s legislation treats them in the same way as married couples for legal purposes.
The directive also includes children of full age who cannot reasonably look after themselves, as well as the relatives in the ascending line of the applicant, their spouse, or even of their unmarried partner.
The draft Directive' s proposal concerning the right to family reunification after one year would not be any problem if, in common with other countries, Denmark were to make such demands, as expressly laid down in the draft directive.
As matters stand, the one-year rule cannot, however, be practised in Denmark without significant problems.
This right is currently only recognised by international legal instruments, specifically the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950.
Family reunification enables the family unit to be protected and makes the integration of third-country nationals into Member States easier.
They have produced a text that is close to the European Commission' s basic proposal which, in my opinion, is on the whole quite satisfactory.
Those entitled to claim family reunification are: the spouse or non-married partner of the applicant (including same-sex partners); although it should be noted that the provision covering non-married partners only applies in Member States where the position of non-married couples is comparable to that of married couples; the children of the couple, whether they are married or not, and whether they are born within marriage, out of wedlock or are from a previous marriage; the children of one of the spouses or partners are covered, on condition that the latter have actual custody and responsibility; relatives in the ascending line, when these people are in the applicant' s care as well as children of full age who are also dependants.
I speak on behalf of myself and my 28 colleagues from the British Labour Party.
We have been pleased to vote and to support this report even though, for a variety of reasons, the United Kingdom Government has exercised its right to opt out of this initiative.
There are, however, various practical points and issues regarding sovereignty which the UK takes very seriously and which means it is not appropriate or possible for the United Kingdom to be included at this time.
However, for some time now, the proportion of immigrants from third countries has been increasing more rapidly than that of EU citizens from the 14 other Member States.
Our labour market depends on the presence of immigrants, although the most severe bottlenecks in our labour market are offset by cross-border commuters from France, Belgium and Germany.
These figures illustrate the interest my country has in a sound immigration policy, and, needless to say, in the important aspect of family reconciliation.
It is, of course, one of the Commission 's tasks, particularly following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, to propose measures on the entry into, and residence, in the European Union, of third-country nationals, primarily with the undeniably admirable aim of bringing about an approximation of the legal provisions of individual Member States on the conditions governing the admission and residence of third-country nationals.
The Commission is right to comment, in its proposal for a directive on the right to reunification, that the presence of family members facilitates normal family life, thereby creating greater stability and enabling the individuals concerned to put roots down in the host country more successfully.
Against this background, and notwithstanding the fact that some international agreements do not make provision for the right to family reunification, in principle, I still welcome the Commission proposal for a Community legal instrument in respect of family reunification.
Above all, we must ensure that these provisions take the absorption capacity of each Member State into account.
The rapporteur was entirely justified in withdrawing her name from the report, which was adopted in committee by 25 votes to 13.
A directive of the kind proposed by the majority of the committee responsible is simply unworkable, dangerous and counterproductive.
My main objective in drafting this statement was to warn against carrying matters to excess, and the unforeseeable consequences thereof, but without wishing to compromise the principle of family unity.
The family is our society' s most important building block, and we must therefore stand up for the right to a family life.
Above all, children' s right to be reunited with their parents must be protected, but the right to family reunification ought in certain cases (for example, when there are serious health reasons) to apply also to relatives in the ascending line, as well as to children who have come of age.
However, particularly from a German perspective, it represents an improvement in the situation of those refugees who are in a position to facilitate the legal entry of others, under the 'family members' heading.
We are forced to hang around for half an hour after the votes to say that we are submitting our explanation of vote in writing.
I have been sitting here for almost half an hour waiting for my name to be called because I was informed by the services that I had to be present in order for my explanation of vote to be taken as written.
I personally feel that the best approach is to check that Members are present for the vote so that they can leave if they are submitting their explanation in writing, and so that the explanations of vote in writing by Members who have not taken part in the vote are not counted.
Such a centre would serve to create a more proactive approach to medium and longer-term industrial change which would benefit all those concerned - Commission, European Parliament, social partners, government and local authorities.
Such a centre could be incorporated into an established body or foundation through the enlargement of existing competences, as proposed in the PSE resolution.
The huge industrial changes of recent years that have resulted from the increase in globalisation, new technologies and social transformations have given rise not only to economic growth and new production sectors but also to a growing number of company mergers, closures and relocations, which have resulted in the loss of local markets, unemployment, the degradation of social and labour protection systems, greater social exclusion and enormous human suffering.
It is equally urgent, however, that the Commission should hasten the review of Directive 94/45/EC on the setting up of a European Works Council and Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89, so as to ensure greater participation by workers' organisations prior to decisions on the concentration and transfer of undertakings and a greater guarantee of protection and defence of workers' rights.
It is clear that this policy goes hand in hand with the recent decisions taken by the Council to prohibit all access to documents concerning defence and security policies.
The New Order is placing new demands on people and on the less developed countries in order consolidate its supremacy.
Veltroni report (A5-209/2000) Madam President, I voted for the Veltroni report also and above all because, as representative of the Pensioners' Party to the European Parliament, I am aware that pensioners and elderly people spend a lot of time watching television.
Madam President, I voted against the motion because this policy still contains worrying elements of statalism and welfarism.
The important aspects of the intervention of the European Union are: 1) The global competitiveness of European industry, especially in relation to the USA, must be combined with a guarantee of pluralism and cultural diversity. 2) The increased effectiveness of the measures contained in Directive 89/552/ÅEC on 'Television without Frontiers' , concerning the promotion of European works. 3) The promotion of linguistic diversity. 4) The protection of minors using new programme control methods. 5) The creation of a European forum on cooperation in matters of transparency and the development of strategies to address market concentrations. 6) The support of the public audiovisual sector with the option of broadcasting on a global scale. 7) The promotion of an internal market for the cinema with the issue of a new directive.
the possibility of targeting intervention to provide strategic support for services of general interest: the public must be guaranteed access to audiovisual services on the basis of criteria such as universality, affordable costs and non-discrimination.
Heaton-Harris report (A5-0199/2000) Madam President, I voted for the Heaton-Harris report, which deals with the movement of university students within the European Union.
The Socrates programme entered its second phase with the decision of 24 January 2000.
It must be admitted, however, that the participation rate is still low, given that this programme involves 18 Member States.
This is what the Commission inquiry has shown: only 1% of students took part in Erasmus mobility programmes in 1998.
The survey does provide us with some answers.
We see that more than 57% of Erasmus students encounter financial difficulties.
Many problems remain in the field of the recognition of qualifications.
As Member for a border area, I regularly meet graduates who are distraught because the courses they have studied in another Member State are not recognised.
We now hope that the Commission and the Member States will take the necessary steps to make the Erasmus programme more accessible to students from economically less well-off groups, particularly by optimising coordination between national financial support for higher education and Erasmus grants, with a view to promoting social equality in access to the programme and the widest possible take-up.
We cannot continue to accept that the overall participation rate in the programme is barely above 50%, and that even so, some 57% of Erasmus students have been affected by worrying financial problems.
Hence the need for measures to help achieve its initial objective of enabling 10% of all Community students to spend part of their degree course in another Member State, and not just 1% as happened in 1997/1998, making it accessible to students from economically less well-off groups.
Boumediene-Thiery report (A5-0207/2000) Madam President, 'in cauda venenum' as the Romans used to say: 'the sting is in the tail'.
Despite the report' s limitations in this respect and although we do not agree with the entire text, we did vote for the report because the measures it recommends represent progress in relation to the current deplorable situation of immigrant workers and migrant workers who are European Union nationals.
I would add that the extreme right' s fiercely racist opposition to this report confirms our views in this direction.
Since 1957, the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community has contained provisions designed to guarantee the free movement of workers within Community territory.
In 1990, two directives (90/364/EEC and 90/365/EEC) have extended the right of residence by defining general principles and rules for workers who have stopped work.
A third directive (93/96/EC), adopted in 1993, contains specific provisions for students.
Since 1993 and the Treaty of Maastricht, any Member State national has the right to move and reside freely in the European Union (Article 14 of the EC Treaty), and this right forms part of European citizenship (Article 18).
The report we are discussing today seeks to provide an overview of the implementation of the directives on the right of residence of students, pensioners and other non-economically-active members of society as well as to study the special measures concerning European Union citizens' moving and settling for reasons of public order, security and health (Directive 64/221/EEC).
With regard to the first section, we must admit that although the directives in question have been transposed, in some cases painstakingly, into national legislation, many obstacles remain, which must be overcome by adopting a raft of specifically-targeted measures.
To mention one problem with which I am very familiar, that of students, I think it is crucial that we provide them with better information on their rights if they wish to study in another Member State.
With regard to the second section, there are many problems in the way Directive 64/221/EEC has been implemented.
The Treaty allows Member States to impose limits on the free movement of persons for reasons of public order, public security or public health.
In any event, these concepts must comply with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
An overall redrafting of the existing texts will make this possible and will have the advantage of putting an end to the current inequalities of treatment in the various Member States.
The approval of the report that the rapporteur has presented to Parliament is heartening, but I cannot say the same for most of the proposals for amendments that have been raised in the House.
The principle of the free movement of persons, included in the Treaty of Rome fifty years ago, still encounters many difficulties in its practical implementation.
As mentioned in the report, the implementation of the directives on the right of residence of students and retired people (90/364, 90/365 and 93/96) is clearly unsatisfactory, and the same is true for the directive on migrant workers.
In addition, as the rapporteur points out, there are at present millions of third-country nationals residing lawfully in the European Union who often find themselves deprived of the right to free movement and residence.
Hence it is essential that the Member States and the Commission take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of migrant workers are upheld and to improve their situation.
However, I am unable to support this report in principle, because it takes advantage of the situation, with a view to demanding freedom of movement and establishment for all third-country nationals who have the right of residence in a Member State.
There are millions of third-country nationals who fit this description, and it is completely unacceptable to saddle other Member States with the consequences of giving freedom of movement to millions of people, without taking the individual Member States' absorption capacity into account.
Many people have doubts about admitting Malta to the European Union.
If the demands made in the Boumediene-Thiery report in respect of freedom of movement for third-country nationals were to be met, this would have a far more serious impact than if we were to grant the citizens of the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe freedom of movement and establishment, without a transitional period, which is something no one in their right mind would consider.
If we really want to fan the flames of xenophobia within the Community, then I can think of no better way than to support the excessive and unreasonable proposals contained in the Boumediene-Thiery report, which thank God, was adopted in committee by only 23 votes in favour to 15 votes against.
It is asking too much of the other Member States as it is, for the German Government to allow several million third-country nationals resident on its territory to hold German citizenship in addition to their own.
But you are entitled to correct your words.
Mr President, colleagues were shouting and so it was very difficult to hear what I was saying.
Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, the plenary does not adopt the verbatim report of proceedings.
The liberalisation of the Community telecommunications market reached a climax in 1998 with the full liberalisation of services and infrastructures in the majority of European Union countries.
The expansion of the telecommunications and Internet sectors is creating large numbers of new jobs both within those sectors and in other sectors, and bringing an increase in efficiency.
Over 500 000 jobs have been created in the mobile telephony sector alone over the last five years.
In July 2000, the Commission proposed a new package on electronic communications, which particularly stresses the need to facilitate high-speed Internet access - while keeping costs down - and to develop a legislative framework which is not too burdensome for operators in the sector.
The possibilities for Commission intervention in the field of competition policy are clearly defined by Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty and by the merger regulation.
At the moment, there appears to be a shift on the European market from consolidation operations to convergence operations, and this is borne out by the alliances recently examined by the Commission, such as the Vodaphone-Vivendi deal, and those which are currently under examination, such as the merger between America On Line and Time Warner. .
The merger was subsequently abandoned by the parties in question but the conditions imposed by the Commission nevertheless served as evidence of its intention to protect the liberalisation of national markets from concentrations of dominating carriers.
On 28 June last, the Commission refused to allow the merger between two US companies, Worldcom and Sprint.
Combining the extensive Internet networks and the vast client bases of Worldcom and Sprint would have produced such a large company that the new company would have been in a position to dictate the conditions of access to its Internet networks and its clients, which would have been to the detriment of the client and created barriers to innovation.
Another example of action taken to avert the risk of an operator gaining control of innovation is that of the Vodaphone/Mannesmann decisions and, subsequently, the Vodaphone/Vivendi/Canal Plus decisions.
The Commission had to assess the implications of the mergers on the emerging markets and authorised the parties to go ahead in both cases during the initial stages, once they had proposed to abide by a limited number of commitments.
The Vodaphone/Mannesmann operation caused problems on the emerging pan-European market of seamless mobile telephony services for multinationals.
In order to eliminate these competition problems, Vodaphone proposed to allow non-discriminatory access to its integrated network and allow competitors to provide similar services during the period in which they were developing their own networks.
Shortly afterwards, the Commission had to examine the case of Vis-à-vis, the joint venture made up of Vodaphone and Attach, Vivendi and Canal Plus, to develop an Internet access portal.
Vis-à-vis was going to produce a multiple-access Internet portal for the whole of Europe, providing the clients of the companies involved with the choice of a range of Web services accessible through the clients' PCs, mobile phones or set top boxes.
The Commission's study revealed that the joint venture would have caused problems for the emerging national TV Internet access markets and the emerging national and pan-European mobile phone Internet access markets.
Mr President, as the examples of the cases of which I have just given a brief outline show, Community competition law plays a crucial role in ensuring that the benefits of liberalisation and innovation do, in effect, filter down to the European citizens.
The role of Community rules on merger control is to prevent the creation or consolidation of dominant positions, which would hold back technological and economic progress, and to ensure that the European Union consumers are able to benefit from this progress.
As we have learned from the experience of these initial years of liberalisation and careful control to preserve competition, workers are also among those who benefit, as shown by the figure I gave just now as an example.
In the telecom field, it is clear that market share can change hands much more quickly than in some of the major industries that have been regulated in the past.
We understand from the Peers Group report that you are going to be awarded an extra 92 posts.
Mr President, could I start my contribution by offering my congratulations to Commissioner Monti and his officials for the scrupulous and professional way in which they dealt with the proposed MCI Worldcom - Sprint merger.
This really is a dilemma for Parliament and for the Commission.
I would like to take up the subject just touched upon by the previous speaker, namely the transatlantic aspects of telecoms liberalisation and particularly paragraph 6 and 7 of the draft resolution, which refers to the unfortunate initiative by Senator Hollings to restrict the transfer of licences to telecoms companies which are more than 25% state-owned.
This seems an ironic lurch towards a protectionist position at the very time when here in Europe and in this Parliament we are about to embark upon a debate on the latest raft of measures which, in my view, would make the European Union telecoms market the most liberalised and the most open market in the world going way beyond many if not all of the commitments into which we entered in GATT and the WTO.
Whilst I have some philosophical sympathy with Senator Hollings and his colleagues who consider that state-owned companies have some hidden and sometimes explicit advantages over their privately-owned competitors, the way in which Congress in the United States is trying to address this issue is contrary to both the spirit and the letter of US multilateral commitments.
Mr President, Commissioner, I remember how, around the middle of last year, when the merger of the American companies Time Warner and America Online was announced, there were people who described that event as an early beginning of the third millennium as far as its cultural and technological aspects were concerned.
In the United States, 40% of homes had access to that network of all networks known as the Internet, whilst in the European Union, that figure hardly reached 20%, and that percentage was only surpassed in a few of the Union' s Member States, which were more advanced in terms of technological development.
We must provide all citizens with access to this new information society.
In Europe, we must ensure that there is security, because that is a human right.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that the Commission and the US Department of Justice have blocked the proposed MCI Worldcom - Sprint merger, and were also delighted to hear that the US Government is not inclined to approve the AOL - Time Warner deal.
However, mergers also have an impact on employment and social cohesion.
Mr President, at the outset I would like to say that I welcome the Commission's publication of the new telecom directives and regulations on 12 July.
This is part of the ongoing framework programme to improve the quality of telecommunications services in Europe.
EU leaders pointed to the need to improve our overall telecommunications services.
Certainly, the auctioning of these licences in Germany and Britain has secured large amounts of money for the respective national exchequers, but who ultimately is going to pay for these phones?
In addition, it involves, as we know very well from the Echelon case and others, the possibility of monitoring, and thus the possibility of the monitoring of people, which has also become a very important business.
Quite the opposite, as through them these companies can create a dependency, as that part of this business happens in people' s brains.
As Mr Clegg said, there are obviously problems too between the European Union and the United States, such as the restriction on mergers in the case of Deutsche Telecom, which obviously has to be looked into.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Clegg has already expressed his broad support, on behalf of the Liberal Group, for the Commission' s proposals, and his concern about certain specific aspects relating to the United States, as has just been mentioned.
I would like to highlight the concern about an aspect which appears in the Liberal Group' s original motion for a resolution, whose first section refers to the need to reject any political interference in the Commission' s competition policy.
If we apply this to the issue in question, the telecommunications sector, it is a well-founded concern given the cases which arose in Spain, a few months ago, involving the merger of Telefónica with a Dutch company, in Portugal and in other sectors in France.
Mr President, the records for company mergers have now been broken in the telecommunications sector, with mega-mergers in Europe and on the other side of the Atlantic.
The Commission banned the merger between MC Worldcom and Sprint solely because it might threaten free competition.
At a time, however, when the European Union is making employment a priority, mergers should also be seen in light of their consequences for employment and land-use planning.
May I welcome the Commissioner to Parliament today on behalf of all of us.
It is perhaps the most important task of the Commission to maintain free competition and make the market work across the European Union.
In the telecoms context it is vital to ensure that consumers get all the benefits the free market can offer them, particularly the low-cost Internet access.
In future we shall want to give the competition mergers department, more work, because the market should play an even bigger role in telecoms than it does at the moment.
I hope you will apply competition law and merger law toughly, but always ensure that you look at each merger on its own merits.
However, market opening in the telecommunications sector itself, demonstrates that market opening can bring benefits for consumers in the form of falling prices and access to new services.
Above all, though, the Commission must use its efforts to modernise competition law, particularly in respect of the regulation on merger control, as an opportunity to adopt an extremely rigorous approach to its reform undertakings too.
Politicians and trust busters, such as Mr Monti, must not interfere in this current development in the market other than when the Commission has proper grounds to believe that a particular merger may cause distortions to the competition situation, so harming the interests of consumers.
Mr Rapkay, you may be sure that nobody in this Chamber wants monopolies or oligopolies in the market.
On the other hand, the Commission must actively monitor whether free access to markets is being realised in all sectors, as stated in point 3 of Parliament' s joint motion for a resolution.
Global competition must be examined, and there have been problems recently, at least with regard to the Deutsche Telekom - Voice Stream deal.
Mr Harbour, you identified one crucial point, namely preventing market trends from disrupting innovation.
That is why we insist so much on rigorous enforcement of competition policy in the light of the market situation in Europe, irrespective of the nationality of companies.
We would have done the same in another case in which one company was European (Pechiney) and the other North American-Canadian (Alcan), but the merger was withdrawn.
In addition, we took similar action in the recent MCI WorldCom-Sprint case, where both companies were American.
Moreover, the bill is, in our view, clearly incompatible with the USA's WTO obligations and other basic telecommunications agreements and the Commission through my colleague Pascal Lamy has certainly made this very clear to our American counterparts.
The Commission also resolutely opposes any such legislation in our Member States.
The deadline for the Commission's decision is 24 October.
The hearing on this merger is taking place today and tomorrow in Brussels.
We expressed our concerns on 22 August when we issued our statement of objections to the parties.
There is nothing else I can add at this stage.
The auctions will increase the number of mobile telephone operators in the Union.
It has been pointed out that the sums paid to EU governments to obtain licences are too high and that making it necessary for the operators to recoup their initial investment would lead to higher prices for consumers and perhaps limit the development of new advanced mobile telephone services.
But this is not a competition law issue as such, whereas trying to introduce restrictions on competition in order to make it easier to recoup the cost would be sanctioned by competition law.
So even though Member States are free to choose either a beauty contest, an auction system or a mixture of both, they must still comply with competition law and the sector-specific telecommunications legislation on licensing and with the state aid rules.
In this context I could mention that the competition DG is currently looking into a complaint against the Netherlands, jointly with the information society DG.
We have to examine situations case by case.
Size can sometimes create problems.
Even smaller operators can create competition problems and then we have to intervene.
I must be very brief at this stage.
However the Commission welcomes the involvement of workers' representatives in the merger control process.
Representatives have a right to be heard at all stages of the procedure.
I am increasingly convinced that rigorous competition is a key component of a social market economy, be it in the traditional sectors or in the new sectors and - I stress both adjectives - social and market economies.
Thank you very much, Mr Monti, for your detailed reply.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday.
Human cloning The next item is the Commission statement on human cloning.
It is becoming increasingly important to anticipate these ethical questions so that they can then be integrated into a broader dialogue between science and society.
Therapeutic cloning, or to be more precise, the use for therapeutic purposes of embryo stem cells obtained by cloning techniques is one example of the ethical questions raised by the rapid scientific advances that have been made in the life sciences.
The report by a group of British experts, published on 16 August, recognises the considerable importance of research into human embryo stem cells and their therapeutic application.
As President Prodi announced recently in a press statement, the Commission, far from remaining silent, hopes that an enlightened debate will ensue, in close cooperation with the European Parliament.
Legislation and gaps in legislation vary greatly, which reflects the range of very different sensibilities in the countries of the European Union.
Community action in the field of biotechnological research is nevertheless increasingly based on the most rigorous fundamental ethical principles, out of respect for national sensibilities.
This legislation does not allow for the patenting of reproductive human cloning and the sale of embryos or parts of the human body.
I should like to emphasise that the ethical aspects are, as a matter of course, taken into account when proposals are assessed and that a thorough ethical review is undertaken for proposals involving more sensitive ethical issues.
The Commission looks forward to hearing the opinion of the European Group on Ethics this November on the use of adult stem cells.
In more general terms, the high level group of experts on life sciences, recently established at my behest, must help us to construct a genuine dialogue on the life sciences between the world of research and society at large.
The symposium, which is being held by this group on 6 and 7 November in Brussels and to which, of course, I invite all Members of this Parliament who may be interested, represents an important stage in establishing this dialogue.
Comments by Mr Verheugen concerning enlargement The next item is the communication on Mr Verheugen' s statement on enlargement.
There is a pressing need for this new page in the history of the Union to be completed, in accordance with the objectives set by the European Council and the Commission itself and frequently presented before this House.
The Union' s first act of generosity, and I must stress that once again, must be to be ready to open its doors to new Members by January 2003.
In order to put our house in order, therefore, the Union' s main concern must be to agree in Nice, at the end of the year, upon a high-quality institutional reform which will prevent our system from being watered down.
For my part, I fear that the public is not yet sufficiently convinced.
In particular, the national procedures for ratifying enlargement are purely national issues.
I have always found Parliament, before which I sit today, to be fully committed to doing just this: explaining to our fellow citizens, over and over again, that enlargement is not a threat but a historic opportunity in all respects, and, above all, a historic step towards establishing peace in our continent.
In this particular case, I am entirely confident that Günter Verheugen fully supports the Commission' s policy, which this House has approved on many occasions.
I cited the Treaty of Maastricht as an example of this, and not enlargement.
Finally, I also said that the German constitution makes no provision for this.
Since the Prodi Commission took office, the outcome of the enlargement negotiations has been positive.
I might point out that it will only be possible to make this kind of headway in close cooperation with the Member States and the European Parliament.
I also warmly commend the European Parliament and its Members for their positive role in the efforts being made to raise awareness of this historic project amongst the people of Europe.
We need to have a wide-ranging , democratic debate on this historic project.
And as President Prodi has already said, it makes perfect sense for the accession treaties to be ratified in the individual Member States in accordance with their respective legal systems.
But I am extremely grateful to President Prodi for the fact that he deemed the occurrence so important as to address us in person today.
You would not be in office if we had not given you our blessing.
We are on the Commission' s side and would ask you to take note of this and not accuse us of opposing the Commission in principle, and only finding ourselves unanimous in one respect.
I simply refuse to accept this. (Applause) I refuse to accept this because I want people to understand that the work we do is in support of the Commission.
In so doing you have made it clear, once and for all - as the President of the Commission said - that you are no longer advocating that a referendum of the kind you have in your country, should form the basis for enlargement of the European Union.
I am delighted that we have been able to reach a consensus on this issue and discuss it, because the issue of enlargement concerns the future of the European continent in the twenty-first century.
Mr Verheugen, I would urge you to take this to heart.
In principle, we are on the Commission' s side when it comes to the future development of Europe, the unity of our continent, and enlargement, because the people of Central Europe want to be part of the community of values that is the European Union.
Naturally, each Member State will decide on the accession of new States according to its own constitutional law, and the same applies to Germany.
But precisely because the German constitution makes no provision for a referendum of this kind, your comments were interpreted as a call for a referendum to be introduced, and as such, as an attempt to postpone the eastward enlargement of the European Union.
We reject any attempt to put new obstacles in the way of accession.
The only way to achieve this aim is to impress on the people that the size of the task is commensurate with the size of the opportunity presented to us all in Europe.
Our generation of politicians, ladies and gentlemen, yours and mine, now has the opportunity, for the first time in a thousand years, to bring all the people of Europe together in one Community, based on free will, peace and democracy.
However, as the Commissioner responsible for enlargement, he does not now have the luxury of speaking in a personal capacity.
The fundamental problem when we give mixed messages or perhaps poorly expressed or ill-judged messages is that we risk conveying the wrong message.
The Commissioner's relationship with our Parliament and its committees has always been constructive and positive and it should remain so.
The Council has been incapable of proposing a concrete enlargement plan and in this it really has to rally its forces.
It is certainly not quite the right time to contemplate this, as we will really have to have the courage to tell people that eight years have passed already since the present applicant countries were invited to join the European Union.
Eight years have passed, but hopefully we will be bold enough to tell the people that this process is now far advanced and is irreversible.
In other words, people' s direct rights are vitally necessary in general, but in this case I do not think we can start to vote on enlargement now.
Madam President, opinion differs in my group as to the proposed enlargement of the European Union.
Personally, I see it as an historic necessity and opportunity, which must not be put at risk either by rashness, undemocratic procedures, and bureaucratic or national small-mindedness, or politicians ' lack of consideration for the social dimension.
In July, you dropped some very vague hints about the difficulties.
But a German referendum must never be allowed to determine the weal and woe of enlargement.
There has been precious little sign of this so far, either in the debate on a Charter of Fundamental Rights, in EU reform undertakings, or in the accession negotiations.
Then you will have us all on your side.
Madam President, President Prodi said 'Public opinion is not sufficiently convinced' and other Members have said the same thing.
Therefore, if we want enlargement to work to the ultimate benefit of present and future Member citizens, we will have to start involving the citizens in political and institutional processes, not unconditionally as you said in your speech, President Prodi, for there is one condition and that is that enlargement becomes a genuine benefit both for those citizens who are currently Members of our European Union and for those who, we hope, will join us as soon as possible.
It was, of course, a mistake, which has caused problems for the Commission and for all of us as the European Union, in the face of the legitimate hopes of the peoples of Eastern Europe who, after 50 years of Communist dictatorship, which we did nothing to combat, now, I believe, have the right to be part of the European Union.
Then we want to achieve enlargement without spending a penny more than our current budget, which is already less than sufficient for the 15.
This process was concluded as early as the end of 1993.
If there are no further interventions, this debate is closed and we shall continue the debate on human cloning.
I wish to thank Commissioner Verheugen once more and to welcome back Commissioner Busquin.
Human cloning (continuation) Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that every person who is motivated by faith in man, right from the very first moment of his existence, must be guaranteed the unconditional respect which is morally due to the human person in its entirety.
It is immoral to use human embryos for research, for those very operations to which the President of the United States, Bill Clinton, has allocated public funding, those operations which have been approved by Tony Blair' s British Government.
Lastly, we propose that a temporary committee be set up to study these issues.
Mr President, Article 1 of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights states that the dignity of the person must be respected and protected.
The speed at which scientific research progresses is sometimes difficult for average humans, and even for politicians, to comprehend.
Certain political groups in this Parliament are proposing a vote on a supposedly 'urgent' motion for a resolution.
This morning' s discussions on the monitoring centre for industrial change showed that this Parliament is capable of voting on everything and its opposite in the space of a few minutes.
This raft of issues concerns various standing committees in this Parliament.
We are prepared to withdraw our motion for a resolution if the other groups do the same and to try to work constructively together.
We do not want a quick, ill-conceived reaction to events that have taken place in my country and the announcement made by the British Government.
It is only a proposal, not a decision, and it follows a very careful and considered report by the chief medical officer's expert group on cloning.
The British Government has recognised that in its proposal because it will be the subject of a free vote, possibly later this year.
I believe, although it is not my party's government, that the British Government has been measured and considered in its response.
The second view considers that the right of those suffering from serious and hitherto incurable illnesses to be able to benefit from the potential of medical research takes precedence over any other consideration.
The idea behind this decision is that therapeutic cloning, that is, the cloning of embryonic cells that are undifferentiated from human embryos available for research and production is a promising way forward.
I feel that it is extremely important to make two observations at this point.
It is probably fair to criticise this convention for its vagueness on a number of points, but in Article 18, it states quite clearly that the production of human embryos for research purposes is prohibited.
Upholding the ban on human cloning, rather than establishing it in the first place - I am talking about upholding the ban - is crucial in this respect.
Mr President, to return to the matter in hand, we are aware that, in the face of new ideas - even new ideas which seem promising in terms of treatments for illnesses affecting millions and millions of people - the normal, conventional reaction always kicks in: to ban, to crusade, to shout 'Barbarians!' without even stopping to ask whether the ban can work, whether it would work or whether we are in a position to ensure that it is observed or to monitor it.
We want to try and reduce the gap between science and politics, to endeavour to govern new phenomena secularly together with the pragmatism of experimentation and successive approximations, without immediately launching into prohibitionist campaigns which we already know to be ineffective.
I believe that it is our responsibility to set the limits, or take on board the risk of setting the limits, of successive approximations without trying to impose any ethical principles - in the case of those who have any - or principles of civilisation.
Having stated these general positions of principle, the debate is only beginning on the attitude we should adopt towards biotechnological research, both in order to fully weigh up its ethical implications, but without running the risk of slowing down work which is likely to bring about improvements in human health.
As if this would explain and justify everything.
I would urgently call on the British Government to reconsider its far-reaching decision and would ask the British Parliament not to back this proposal.
Hitherto, all those in positions of responsibility within the European Union were agreed that the cloning of human beings should be rejected out of hand.
Commissioner, over the past few days, a number of articles in the press, as well as your speech, have given rise to some confusion regarding the fifth research framework programme, and especially concerning the Patenting Directive.
We must appoint the best experts to advise the Council and ensure that there is consistency in the legislation across the Member States.
The ethical issues and the need to protect human dignity, in particular, are so important that we cannot afford to leave them at the mercy of fragmented, possibly even contradictory pieces of legislation introduced by individual Member States.
We must get to grips with all the ethical issues raised by medicine, technology and science, as a matter of urgency.
The appropriate parliamentary committee must therefore get down to work as quickly as possible.
Our vote will set this in train.
Putting an end to cloning techniques in Europe will only shift research elsewhere, for example to the United States or, in the worst case, to countries whose ethical standards are worse than those in the European Union.
Mr President, we have the awful situation where one EU Member State permits therapeutic cloning, which we have always been critical of.
The people of the European Union are expecting the European Parliament to take a stance on this.
The arbitrary distinction between reproductive and non-reproductive cloning is semantic sleight of hand.
That is why Parliament must use its power to act.
This is why the European Union' s action in this field must be guided by major fundamental principles alone.
Indeed, it is no coincidence that the 1998-2002 fifth research and technological development framework programme excludes the financing of projects which involve the cloning of embryos for reproductive purposes and does not provide for funding research into cloning for therapeutic purposes.
In respect for the differences of opinion on the matter, we feel that it is vital to lay down ethical standards based on respect for human dignity in the biotechnology sector.
It would have been interesting to hear their arguments too, because I am quite sure that they must have had a few thoughts on the matter .
It would be entirely appropriate to discuss this kind of issue during this debate, because we have the privilege of being in the company of delegates from the four corners of the European Union.
But I also want my opinion to be respected.
The next stage will be commercial exploitation, which our own bio-patenting directive allows for.
Fact: human reproductive cloning is banned in the UK.
There is no intention to change this and the UK industry has no intention of carrying out human reproductive cloning now or in the future.
The research use of embryonic stem cells is a short-term response to a scientific need to discover ways of reprogramming adult cells.
Fact: stem cell research is tightly regulated under a stringent act of Parliament by the highly respected and rigorous Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority.
It would perhaps be a good idea if other Member States were to have something similar.
Fact: there have recently been interesting advances in adult stem cell research, but there still remain significant disadvantages compared with the unique characteristics of embryonic stem cells.
Rightly or wrongly, the UK and the US legislation have permitted this type of research for ten years and many benefits have resulted.
And after consulting world-wide for many months the Donaldson report recommends extending such research for therapeutic purposes.
It should also be pointed out that national legislation on this issue varies enormously, which can lead to uncontrolled practices, but these practices, as Mrs Grossetête said just now, may make us question the value some countries place on the reality of the principle of respect for human life from the embryonic stage, stated in Article 18 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which forbids the production of embryos for human purposes.
Secondly, I think that in order to hold this debate, Parliament should create an ad hoc Parliamentary committee which, could, in the first instance, quickly take the initiative of hearing experts from all disciplines, both from Europe and from across the Atlantic.
This debate must also, however, be held in the public domain.
I simply wanted to clarify this point, Mr Liese, since you asked the question.
With regard to the debate, on the other hand, as I said in my introductory speech, the Commission would like to enter into a debate with Parliament on these issues which are, as we have seen, very complex and very interesting.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0535/2000).
Firstly, it is clear that there has been a human resources problem in the Public Health Directorate in Luxembourg, which deals with this work.
This situation was aggravated last summer when a decision was taken in the light of the report of the Committee of Independent Experts to end the contract with the technical assistance office which helped in the implementation of this programme.
Secondly, a large number of small projects are implemented under the anti-drugs programme, placing additional strain on the already limited human resources at our disposal.
During the last five years, the average size of projects in terms of co-financing granted by the Commission has been EUR 180,000.
The Commission's proposal for a new public health framework and strategy highlights the need for clearer objectives and more efficient management with a greater impact on key priorities.
As the budgetary authority repeatedly stresses, we must match resources and priorities more realistically in the future.
The inexperience of contractors regarding financial control requirements will continue to necessitate significant advice and other inputs from already limited staff resources.
The Public Health Directorate intends to carry out an information campaign to help contractors to understand the Commission's procedures and requirements more clearly.
On the issue of red tape, the departments concerned are currently reviewing their documentary requirements with the aim of simplifying and speeding up payment procedures without neglecting the necessary financial control measures.
I have encountered problems of this kind before, not just in the drugs sphere, but with many other partners that work with the Commission and seek co-financing.
With regard to the size of projects, since 1996 a total of 149 projects have been selected for over EUR 25 million, with an average amount of EUR 180 000 per project.
It does not always follow that smaller projects are better than bigger projects, but if human resources are applied efficiently it will be for the betterment of the projects concerned.
What I say now is no reflection at all on the Commissioner himself, but I hope that he would accept with me that science must inform our decisions on risk and how to manage it.
That principle only holds good if the decisions are scientifically irreproachable.
That information was passed on to the Commission, since it is one of the EU institutions responsible for risk management.
The Commission made a clear assessment of this issue.
My colleague, Commissioner Liikanen, has adopted a more long-term approach to the whole issue of phthalates and placticisers in toys and so on.
As the author is not present, Question No 43 lapses.
Question No 44 by (H-0688/00): Subject: Water needs in the Middle East The constantly increasing demand for water in the Middle East is set to play a significant part in relation to the outlook for cooperation and understanding among the peoples of the region.
Water is indeed one of the main issues of the Middle East peace process, not only in the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians but also between Israel and Syria.
As a concrete contribution we have committed another EUR 4 million in 1999 for the completion of the regional water data banks.
The Commission's policy aims at helping the region to achieve a sustainable management of the scarce water resources in combination with assistance to explore new resources.
Estimates suggest that in the overall Mediterranean region agriculture absorbs over two thirds of total national water consumption, while accounting for only one third of GNP and labour.
Indeed the Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers Conference in Stuttgart in 1999 decided to make water a priority for the partnership.
As a first result the EUR 40 million action plan adopted by the Euro-Mediterranean ministerial conference on local water management in Turin in October 1999 would provide a further opportunity for cooperation in this sector.
Commissioner, what initiatives are you going to take to formulate rules of international law in the management of water resources so as to eliminate any hotbeds of local and regional political antagonism, seeds of crises and a peculiar type of imperialism?
The most recent example is Community support of EUR 5 million in grants for the project management of the Greater Amman water sector improvement programme, plus a substantial loan from the European Investment Bank.
The European Commission contributed EUR 1.2 million towards its implementation.
The Euro-Mediterranean conference on water management in Marseilles on 25 and 26 of November 1996 was organised on the initiative of the European Commission and the French Government, with the support of the city of Marseilles.
Second part I agree that it is a matter for concern that rules on the transport of animals are not being sufficiently enforced in certain areas.
While Member States are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of Community legislation, the Food and Veterinary Office of my Directorate-General undertakes specific control and inspection missions to check that Member States apply Community legislation in an effective and a uniform manner.
I will shortly present a report to the Council and the European Parliament on the implementation in the Member States of the Community legislation on the protection of animals during the last quarter of this year.
The report will show that Member States currently have difficulties in fully implementing Community legislation.
I would like to highlight this and ask what sort of timetable is now in place for real action, taking into account the fact that we have to put our own house in order before new Member States join the EU?
The Commission believes that the most effective way to achieve a widespread improvement in animal welfare standards is to work towards an international consensus.
The long-distance transport of horses has been discussed with heads of veterinary services in the central and east European countries currently negotiating accession to the Union.
So I can give an assurance that this issue is high on the list of priorities in my service and we will be monitoring it closely and pursuing it actively.
Given the pets' passport project at European level and a right for pets now to move freely within the European Union as a result, does the Commission have any legal competence to intervene and protect animal welfare and, in particular, these domestic pets in Germany, of which there will be a needless slaughter potentially and possibly even extinction of a fine breed of British dogs?
Mr Tannock, you may express your opinion in writing on a bilateral basis or you may do it in public in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the Commissioner will reply.
Thank you very much, Mr Byrne, for your cooperation with Parliament this afternoon.
However, the President also sought to situate the Commission's action in these areas, as in others, in the context of the Treaties' revision.
He acknowledged that competence for action concerning children remains primarily with the Member States given the lack of a clear legal basis in the Treaty for the Community to safeguard children's rights in terms that go beyond the existing framework.
In the current framework the European Commission has already undertaken a considerable number of initiatives to protect children's rights as in the Daphne and Stop programmes which fall under my competence.
The Commission is also pursuing action in the social and educational field with a view to improving the situation of children.
The draft article concerning the protection of children incorporates the main principles of the New York Convention as the right to such protection and care as is necessary for their well-being and consideration.
Although all the Member States have ratified the Convention, its implementation varies widely and the views of the Member States on how to best protect children's rights diverge to a considerable extent.
It is my conviction that such an evaluation might represent a useful contribution for the participation of the Union in the special session of the United Nations general assembly in September 2001.
The Commission believes that its ongoing actions in favour of children, its active advocacy for an appropriate inclusion in the charter of fundamental rights and its support for this idea of having an evaluation as described represents evidence of its commitment to this important subject.
As you know, I am a great admirer of yours and I am sure that you were as uncomfortable repeating your answer today as I was hearing it.
Having listened to the extent of plans that the Commission has in relation to animal welfare, I can only wish that they had similar plans in relation to the welfare of children.
Since we are talking about that my approach is that we should have a study to evaluate how the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights has been implemented in our Member States.
This study should be completed in time to be used as basis for the Union's participation in the United Nations Special General Assembly next year.
As you know, the responsibility for protecting the dignity of children falls, above all, within the competence of the Member States.
Question No 47 by (H-0606/00): Subject: Absence of passport controls in the Schengen area In the Commission's view, how has the absence of passport controls under the Schengen Agreement worked during the European football championship in the light of the mass arrests made in Brussels and Charleroi?
It should also be borne in mind that for the duration of Euro 2000, the Belgian and Dutch Governments made use of a safeguard clause in Article 2(2) of the Schengen Agreement, which lays down that, when public order or national security are threatened - and in my view, the fear generated by these cases of 'hooliganism' certainly meets these criteria - a Member State may decide that, for a limited period, national border controls, adapted specially for the situation, can be implemented, even at internal borders within the Schengen area.
These were targeted checks, specifically based on information supplied by the Member States in the framework of police cooperation, concerning supporters likely to pose a threat to public order.
Establishing controls at the external borders and, temporarily, at the internal borders of the Schengen area is not the same as closing a border or systematically turning away people who wish to enter the territory in order to attend a football match.
This is why an assessment of the measures for cooperation between the authorities of the Member States concerned is already underway and why this joint exercise aims to learn the lessons of Euro 2000, in order to see how police and judicial cooperation can in the future be improved in terms of combating hooliganism.
I supported Portugal as well as I could there at King Baudouin' s Stadium in Brussels, but France won in the end in a match in which it has to be said that France had the better team.
As the Commissioner surely knows, the Nordic countries are to become signatories of the Schengen Agreement in March of next year.
I cannot give you a fixed timetable, that is, I cannot guarantee that these documents will be adopted before the expected date for the integration of the Nordic Passport Union into the Schengen free movement area.
Question No 48 will be replied to in writing.
The Portuguese Presidency submitted a draft Council regulation at the end of June 2000.
This would make it possible to meet the deadline of having the European police college in place by 2001, as mentioned in the Commission's scoreboard on justice and home affairs.
It will function in this form for three years.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his precise answer and substantial input in this matter.
But we intend to promote our own initiative in the area just to make sure that we will have all the necessary information to take a further step ahead as soon as possible.
Question No 50 will be replied to in writing.
Common social policy objectives must be defined and attained in order to ensure that the process of increasing integration and the forthcoming enlargement is supported by the European public.
But our objectives can be achieved using methods such as social dialogue, the Structural Funds, especially the European Social Fund, which has a large budget, mainstreaming, political analysis, research and, finally, legislation.
The first is to combat social exclusion and the second concerns future cooperation on issues of social protection and pension systems.
Commissioner, thank you very much for providing these clarifications.
Allow me to express the wish that is dearest to my heart in the form of an additional question: what special measures will the Commission endeavour to take in the future, with a view to working towards the harmonisation of the social security systems, professional qualifications and the social dimension in all areas?
However, I believe we must convince the people of the European Union that freedom of establishment is not a hollow expression which ultimately applies in full to tourists, rather, they must understand that for people who work, or have worked - firstly in terms of the insurance system and then in terms of the pensions system - freedom of establishment is a reality, and not a hollow expression.
Mr President, Commissioner, the harmonisation of social security systems would require harmonisation of the financing of social security, or, in practice, the harmonisation of taxation, not just with regard to its technical framework, but also its levels of taxation.
For that reason I believe that a policy like this of taking small steps at a time is quite in order in this matter, and I would also ask how one aspect of this one-step-at-a-time policy is going, in other words the directive on a single market for additional pensions.
Within the framework of this dialogue, on 30 March 2000 I met members of the platform of European NGOs and a dialogue took place, which focused on two categories of issues.
But I have one specific question: why are only eight or nine NGOs, as far as my information is concerned, funded through these two lines?
My information is that they are being pushed into project funding and 18 environmental NGOs, for instance, are receiving from the Commission funding towards their running costs.
We know that in this social field there is a huge number of NGOs and it is very difficult for the Commission DG to know with which of them they can cooperate.
This is why we must solve the problem of the issue of representativeness, and the issue of the network to be established at European level.
The action plan for employment for 2000 contains these undertakings.
As the author is not present, Question No 54 lapses.
Questions Nos 55, 56 and 57 will be replied to in writing.
The file, accompanied by a request for a `certificate of specific character´, was submitted by the whole virgin honey association and forwarded to the Commission by the Italian Ministry for the Environment on 8 September 1995.
I am very grateful for your precision, Commissioner but I have to say that I am not satisfied.
I am aware that, since then, the common position on the directive has been redefined and that Parliament is expecting to hold a debate on the subject.
It will then no longer be a problem for us to grant the protection sought by the Italian Government, or the region concerned.
Question No 59 by (H-0609/00): Subject: EU funding to Coillte According to a European Court of Justice ruling of August 1999, Coillte has illegitimately received EU loss of income forestry grants under forestry funding Regulation 2080/92 amounting to £6.5 million from 1993 to 1999.
I would like to point out that there has been no judgement from the Court of Justice on this specific issue.
The Commission will therefore refuse to co-finance grants paid out, backdated to 1 August 1996.
What is interesting as well as that the chairman, Ray MacSharry is a former European Commissioner for Agriculture and he is still refusing to acknowledge the fact that Coillte is a public entity and that it is not entitled to such payments.
However, the findings are not binding on the Commission, as we have already mentioned on more than one occasion here in Parliament.
As the author is not present, Question No 60 lapses.
The Commission' s reform proposals will ultimately serve to implement the European agricultural model in these sectors.
We want to bring the economic, social and environmental goals in these sectors into line with each other.
After all, it is precisely this issue that the enlargement negotiations are focussing on.
Question No 62 by (H-0633/00): Subject: Subsidies for growing tobacco Tobacco growing in the European Union is subsidised to the tune of millions of euros per year while at the same time over half a million EU citizens die each year of diseases caused by tobacco.
I would remind the House that the Commission presented Parliament and the Council with a report on the common market organisation of tobacco as early as 1996.
However, this was also because there was evidence to show that subsidising tobacco cultivation has practically no effect on tobacco consumption, and thus on the risk to EU citizens ' health.
This led to radical reform of the tobacco sector in 1998.
The provisions laid down in the tobacco market organisation can also be supplemented within the framework of the support measures for rural development.
On a final note, I would just like to say that the Commission will of course assess the reform measures taken.
We will provide the European Parliament with a report on the functioning of the amended market organisation by 1 April 2002.
In so doing, we are giving some families the opportunity to draw an income from this type of cultivation.
There will be no decline in tobacco consumption until we have succeeded in driving this message home to consumers.
In economic terms, the only way to achieve this is to alter patterns in demand.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler, for your replies.
In the long term, our fellow European citizens must enjoy high quality water everywhere, whether surface or groundwater.
You are aware that this House wanted our directive to be compatible with the commitments given under international conventions, in particular OSPAR, as stated in the directive.
The arrangements introduced will clear the way for a list of priority substances to be gradually drawn up every 4 years, that is, priority substances which must be reduced in quantity, and priority hazardous substances, which must purely and simply be eliminated.
We were faced with the problem of producing a rigorous definition of what we called good groundwater status.
In order for this good status to be specified, it was decided that a 'daughter' directive should be drawn up, that is, a directive that will implement the framework directive.
Parliament was rather afraid that the new directive would provide an opportunity to delay requirements to combat pollution and immediate measures to prevent the pollution of groundwater.
So you see, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in this way we have come up with a system that enables us to make significant progress, and not just in terms of the main principles, but also in the overall effectiveness of the decisions that have been made.
The second major task for this House will be the substance of the framework directive on groundwater.
In any event, this is the intention of our directive and I have no doubt that the Commission and the Member States will ensure that it is implemented.
In June 1995, and at our group' s insistence, the European Parliament' s Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy held a hearing of experts on the European Union' s water policy.
By working together closely in this way, Parliament and the European Commission gradually moved towards a consensus, a process also helped by the intensive discussions during the first and second readings in the European Parliament and the conciliation procedure.
I should like once again to make explicitly clear in this connection the particular importance we attach to reconciling Community law and international conventions, albeit in such a way that the substance of international conventions does not automatically become legally binding in Community law.
In certain respects the directive forms a framework whose contents are still unclear.
All in all, the foundations have been laid for a coherent water policy and for long-term improvements in water quality.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I am making this speech on behalf of Mrs García Orcoyen, who was unable to attend this sitting.
Tomorrow's approval of this framework directive will represent a great step forward on the road to the cohesion and harmonisation of the legislation of the Member States with regard to the quantity and quality of their water.
In this last stage of the long parliamentary process undergone by this directive, in particular during conciliation, the European Parliament has been able to present a united front in defending its arguments before the Council.
The rapporteur's superb coordination and the will to reach an understanding shown by all the political groups have made this final text possible, and it has been improved in basic aspects such as the legally binding nature of the objectives without omitting to take account of the various problems in the Member States.
I must also congratulate the Council on its flexibility in the face of the criticisms put forward by Parliament, and the Commission for its effective mediation.
Tomorrow, a new and equally important stage in the directive' s development will begin, in which the European Parliament must continue to participate extremely actively in monitoring and controlling the fulfilment of objectives and deadlines and the drawing-up of reports or legislative acts derived from the directive.
One of the weakest points to have become apparent during the drawing-up stage must be strengthened: the incontestable need for more and better means of technical advice for subjects which, like this, require highly specific knowledge, and in which the social and economic cost of a small calculation error can be great.
Finally, I would like to emphasise what makes this directive a real tool for sustainable development: the balance achieved in the consideration of water as an extremely valuable economic resource and as an essential element in the conservation of European ecosystems.
The development of this directive may provide an important meeting point in the much-reviled relationship between economy and ecology.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Water Framework Directive contains many positive initiatives in favour of comprehensive and integrated water protection.
We cannot wait 30 years for the European Court of Justice to decide whether or not the environmental objectives are in fact legally binding.
The Member States have been called upon to improve the quality of our water quickly in order to achieve the objectives in 15 years' time.
Mr President, the forthcoming Water Framework Directive is based on the justified principle that citizens of the European Community are entitled to use drinking water on a daily basis.
The tasks are therefore broadly defined.
Mr President, Commissioner, it was a very turbulent night sitting in which Parliament, the Council and the Commission agreed upon a common water policy for all Member States.
I would like to make two points to emphasise the importance of integrated water management: firstly, I would like studies to be carried out on the establishment of a federal "water and environment" management system in the various countries at European Union level, second, we must ensure that the proposals of the directive are implemented and encourage them, not only at European Union level, but also in the aid that we give to third countries in the form of "water" projects, the impact of which lies in a hydrographic ecosystem affecting the countries of the European Union, but also those that are part of the MEDA agreements, for example, which must be taken account of in the MAP projects and even in others, like the Upper Nile basin or Switzerland.
Mr President, the commitment that has been obtained on the text of the new Water Framework Directive is generally positive, even though it contains certain controversial aspects, worthy of criticism, which can nevertheless be ironed out when the various studies, action plans and draft regulations provided for in the text we have just approved are drafted.
The new paragraph 4 of Article 9 will allow for the continuation of the established practice in Ireland of not applying water charges to the domestic water sector.
Many have to pay to sink their own pump in Ireland and pay the electricity charges.
Many are on group water schemes which are not part of the public water supply and have to pay dearly each year for the privilege of rather questionable quality water being distributed to their houses.
We are coming to the end of a long road on which there has been a long battle, long discussions, but in the end, some positive agreements and constructive positions on the part of the three institutions, the Council, Parliament and the Commission, which have made this agreement possible.
As with any agreement, some will think it too little, others too much, but there is a middle point, a balance that is acceptable for the diverging points of view of those who have worked all this time.
In some countries, vast expanses have under 400 millimetres per year, that is, semi-arid zones, while in others the average far exceeds 2 500 or 3 000 millimetres.
The focal point of this directive, in which water is considered as a whole, a total flow, with no distinction between surface and groundwater, which is the mistake that was made for a long time, is the right focal point and implies a step forward.
The effort to keep our aquifers in the European Union as clean as possible, or as unpolluted as possible, is a key effort if we want to guarantee balanced development, sustainable development and a habitable Europe for future generations.
Mr President, I should like to ask the Commission what is happening with the 1991 Directive on ecological water quality which has so far not officially been withdrawn by the European Commission.
It is a problem which the translators could not solve because the text is so specialised.
Mr President, with regard to the directive on ecological water quality, to which I believe Mrs Schleicher is referring, this framework directive incorporates all the essential elements of the proposal on the ecological quality of water and I understand that the latter has already been withdrawn.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We began with cars and oil and are now faced with the question of what to do with the nine million cars which end up on the scrap heap every year.
This Parliament ought also, however, to have had the courage to make a really bold decision in favour of a really new type of car for the future, one which will not weigh 1 500 kg but perhaps only 1 000 kg and which, with its lifetime 'mileage' of 300 000 km, may be seen to have genuine advantages in terms of environmental policy.
One general point - and also a disputed one in this House - was the question of costs.
We have made exceptions which will be reviewed by the Commission in three years' time for, together with the scientific advisory board, the Commission has overall responsibility for making the relevant decisions in this area in three years' time.
Mr President, the compromise that has been reached is a great success for environmental and consumer protection.
It is the first time that manufacturers' liability for waste has been up for debate at all, and the fact that manufacturers' liability is soon to become a reality is to be welcomed.
The compromise reached on heavy metals is also a giant step towards an environmentally friendly strategy for dealing with the flow of materials.
What is worth noting, as far as the conciliation process is concerned, is the fact that Parliament has unfortunately slowed down this development towards manufacturer' s liability instead of speeding it up.
Lastly, it is important to highlight another point too, which is of a more specific political-institutional nature.
Let us be honest, we are all aware that we started the conciliation procedure from very opposed positions - there was even a certain amount of interinstitutional tension between Parliament and the Council - with many national differences in terms of both experience and interests.
Mr President, Commissioner, with regard to end-of-life vehicles, we have reached a sound compromise.
For the first time, European legislation defines manufacturer' s liability in no uncertain terms.
We are now dealing with manufacturer' s liability in the case of end-of-life vehicles.
Unfortunately, the text stipulates that the manufacturer will be wholly or mainly responsible.
We need to move towards individual manufacturer' s liability.
Mr President, it is true that the legislative procedure has been long and difficult, and I have said so.
It should be noted that the Commission's initial proposal was presented in July 1997.
During this prolonged procedure and in spite of the complexity of the legislation, it has been possible to solve a series of problems thanks to the colegislators and, once again, to the three institutions' will to come to an agreement.
I am therefore pleased with the agreement on a joint text, reached on 23 May this year at the Conciliation Committee.
I am sure that the joint text represents a good balance between the need to guarantee a high level of environmental protection and the legitimate concerns of the various participants.
I would, however, like to emphasise three statements that the Commission will make when it adopts the directive.
Firstly, the provision laid down in Article 5(1) does not oblige the Member States to establish separate collection systems with special funding requirements, but allows them to use the existing waste collection systems.
Second, with regard to Article 5(3), it is the responsibility of the Member States to decide which producers, concessionaries and collectors must be registered in accordance with the framework directive on waste or in a new register created specifically.
Generally speaking, this text constitutes a significant step towards sustainable production and consumption, a model for future Community initiatives in the field of specific waste management such as, for example, the directive on electrical and electronic waste, to which reference has been made.
Many thanks, Mr President.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Before coming to the proposals contained in my report, it would be helpful to remind ourselves of some of the key issues in this debate.
Essentially, the problem can be expressed very simply: aviation is growing at an unsustainable rate.
In terms of aviation growth, air traffic is forecast to almost double in the next 15 years.
To take a case that I know well in the UK, the government's own air traffic forecasts which were published in June this year show total passenger numbers at UK airports rising from 160 million in 1998 to 400 million in just over 20 years' time.
That increase of 240 million is equivalent to four new airports the size of London Heathrow or eight new airports the size of London Gatwick.
On the contrary, global aviation policies are actually encouraging the unrestrained growth of this sector.
To mention some of the key points of my report very briefly: on noise, current noise standards for new aircraft have actually been in existence since 1977 and there is therefore an urgent need for more stringent standards.
The airlines have been getting away with not paying their way for over 50 years.
The aviation sector is responsible for some jobs but it should not be forgotten that making aviation pay its way in terms of taxation will create thousands of jobs in other sectors.
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that all Members of this House care deeply about the environment despite the fact that the rapporteur and members of the Greens would have you believe otherwise.
Environmental concerns must, however, be balanced against the needs of the aviation industry to ensure its success in the future.
I would like to assist honourable Members by pointing out the following information: air transport is responsible for generating 25 million direct jobs world-wide.
If multiplied by the number of countries in the European Union one can see and understand just how important this industry is to our economies.
In terms of environmental impact, aviation uses less than 8% of the land required for rail and less than 1% required for road use.
Over the past 15 years CO2 emissions have declined by 70% and unburned hydrocarbons by 85%.
They should also tackle land planning around existing airports and take responsibility for their decisions in the past.
To suggest that either a tax on kerosene, which is internationally exempt from tax for the aviation industry, or VAT on tickets or aircraft purchases is the answer is incorrect.
I would hope in future the proposals from the Commission are thought through more carefully.
The Commission statement on aviation and the environment is a first step towards better European legislation.
As stated in the report, we would like international consultation and further research.
Since the outcome of this research is uncertain, we support the fall-back position, as formulated in Paragraph 20 of the report, in the form of a European environmental levy.
In the final analysis, what matters is for us to follow the Kyoto agreements, and aviation should contribute substantially in this respect.
There are specific reasons for this, but something must be done about the matter.
A regional approach is premature at the moment, and I am pleased that the rapporteur has amended a number of her points in the original text to this effect.
It must not serve as a pretext for other objectives in the field of tax or for extending the competence of the Commission.
This first step towards a European tax will only affect passengers, once again, without achieving any of this report' s objectives.
Our citizens are already squeezed hard by taxes and, at a time when the Member States are trying to reduce taxation, a European tax could put our businesses in a difficult position in relation to their competitors, in particular American businesses or others, with numerous disastrous consequences for employment.
Furthermore, we demand that tax subsidiarity in favour of the Member States be observed.
The political dependency of the Member States depends in large part on their freedom in terms of tax.
On the other hand, air travel has an obvious detrimental effect upon the environment due to exhaust emissions and noise pollution.
The Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats in any case calls for a significant reduction in permitted levels of noise pollution - which, in view of the international character of air travel, ought more sensibly to be regulated within the framework of the ICAO - and for noisier aircraft to be excluded from using European airports following brief transitionary periods.
We hope, and are campaigning for, a situation in which the Member States of the European Commission will provide a clear mandate.
We have to protect our citizens from unnecessary noise.
Mr President, we know that traffic emissions are one of the greatest environmental problems we have and they have also proved to be one of the hardest to get rid of.
In this sense the problems of air traffic are still greater because we have to find global solutions for them.
Mr President, I would like to emphasise the importance of the aim to use efficient, alternative transport, in place of short flights, which was mentioned in this report.
This report sets the right tone for this, especially for the benefit of the Commission.
Despite our positive attitude to this report, there are a number of elements which, in my opinion, do not belong in a report such as this one.
But we need to focus all our efforts on how we can minimise the effects of the rapid growth within this sector on the environment.
In my opinion, the European Union should support the ICAO process.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think we are all convinced that we have an obligation and a duty to protect the environment and contribute to sustainable development with an environmental policy that has seen its importance increased subsequent to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I agree with the Commission on drawing up more stringent standards on noise and also on establishing transitional provisions to satisfy the needs of the regions that are confronted with noise pollution problems.
It would also be important to ask the Commission to present proposals for the introduction of economic incentives aimed at achieving a reduction of the negative effects on the environment.
Naturally, what we do not agree on is the unilateral establishment of tax on kerosene, as a unilateral decision without the backing of the ICAO would have a minimal impact on the environment, would create legal problems, would damage competition among European airlines and would consequently affect users, who would see their tariffs rise.
It would also be essential that, before taking any measures with regard to the adoption of taxes on the aviation industry, a study should be carried out on the costs and benefits that these measures would imply.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the importance of efficient management in the aviation industry in reducing pollutants, placing the emphasis on improving airport management and clearly supporting the creation of a single European sky, by means of which we would also undoubtedly contribute to reducing environmental pollution.
Drafting radically new regulations on aircraft noise has to happen globally and under the auspices of ICAO, and careful, long-term community and town planning consequently has a key role in this.
As we are all aware, the environmental consequences of air transport have recently attracted a great deal of interest.
Many citizens living in these areas believe that much more could be done to improve their situation and that is what they are demanding.
Furthermore, the long-term impact of gases from air transport on climate change is undoubtedly a cause of concern in the world today, as is the impact of other types of emissions.
The air transport system must therefore be handled globally and coherently, from an environmental point of view, that is, we must also take account of aspects relating to the activity of air transport.
We must try to reconcile interests that are not always easy to reconcile as air transport undoubtedly involves economic interests that are characterised by high investment costs which require a long life span before they are paid off.
But there is no doubt that the public, not only people in the surrounding area who suffer most directly from certain types of pollution such as noise or even emissions, but the public in general, who want sustainable development and quality of life, has a right to demand action from us to guarantee this type of growth that should be the European model.
In its communication on air transport and the environment, the Commission maintains that the aviation industry needs to increase its efforts to improve the environmental quality of new aircraft being built.
I know this message is not well received in many parts of the sector but, without a doubt, in the medium and long term there is no solution but to look for an alternative unless we want air transport to become a victim of its own success.
The Commission, however, is aware that the air transport sector is correct in saying that before carrying out environmental measures, a serious in-depth study must be done on the economic and social repercussions that these measures will have.
I have the impression that today, those most concerned by the environment are accepting, little by little, but more and more, the fact that in order to develop a definite environmental policy, account must be taken of the balance between the cost and effectiveness of the measures proposed.
The report we have before us considers these fundamental issues and takes account of both the need to reinforce environmental protection beyond routine efforts and the profitability analysis factor.
For example, what she says on kerosene seems to me to be a reasonable way of presenting this problem, which undoubtedly cannot be solved at European level, but at world-wide level and by the ICAO.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for the support she gives the Commission in the report, and say that we find ourselves at a difficult stage of the debate on new noise standards and on legislation which gradually eliminates the noisiest aircraft, within the framework of the ICAO.
On many occasions, we have indicated our preference for an international solution to these problems, and the Commission has noted with satisfaction the positive development of the United States' stance in relation to the standardisation process that is taking place in the ICAO.
I have to say that the legislation on the so-called "hushkits" , with regard to the noisiest aircraft, adopted in its day by Parliament, the Council and the Commission, was based precisely on the fact that the United States had adopted unilateral measures outside the ICAO.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Noise is an environmental and health problem which is underestimated.
Vans and lorries produce more noise than ordinary cars.
This is why it is important to make the necessary changes here too, and I hope that a number of the Christian-Democrat MEPs will be able to vote in favour of this.
The tyre industry has been given until October 2005 to meet stricter noise limits.
The noise level from 'fluisterasfalt' [silent asphalt], as it is termed by our Flemish friends, or 'ZOAB, zeer open asfaltbeton' [very open asphalt concrete], as we like to refer to it in the Netherlands, is probably 20 decibels lower than that from cobblestone roads.
Our motorways are no longer paved with cobblestones, but a reduction of 3 to 5 decibels is possible by introducing this type of asphalt everywhere.
This means that the noise level can be cut by more than half without reducing the volume of traffic.
More than 10 years ago, the European Parliament introduced the first generation of catalytic converters and, two years ago, the second generation of catalytic converters appeared in the Langen/Hautala report on the motor oil programme.
As a result, air pollution caused by cars and lorries will drop by 70% to 90% in 2005 and 2007.
There are now two major environmental issues left to tackle at European level.
With regard to CO2, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has suggested that the European Commission submit a legislative proposal to reduce the rolling resistance of tyres by 5%.
Just in the last three days, the car and tyre industries have indicated in this Chamber that their options may well be open when it comes specifically to car tyres.
It is possible, as we shall see in one or two years' time, that the industry will be able to achieve these objectives of ours by the year 2005.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is a well-known fact that you are not entirely averse to cars yourselves and also enjoy driving.
There are already tyres whose specifications are well below the values proposed in the common position when it comes both to tyre noise and to the rolling resistance which is responsible for petrol consumption and CO2 emissions.
I am therefore wondering why this Parliament cannot summon up the courage to say that whatever is now already state of the art technology is what we demand by 2005 for all tyres, particularly those fitted to private cars.
Some of our colleagues are seeking to sabotage this careful work by demanding arbitrary and ill-considered decibel reductions.
In some cases their figures are achievable, in others not.
Since the first publication of this directive back in 1997 the manufacturers have moved to meet the Commission standards.
Firstly, tyre standards are not the only problem.
In many cases a better solution is to change the road surface and not the tyre standards.
Secondly - and in my opinion of paramount importance - is the need to balance the problem of tyre noise and tyre safety.
Our failure to agree tyre safety standards creates an unacceptable level of uncertainty with regard to this vital question.
For that reason I am particularly concerned about the potential effects of Amendments Nos 3 and 4 and their impact upon tyre safety, especially for vehicles such as buses and trucks.
The situation will become untenable, however, if there is an attempt to bring in changes too fast, as would seem to be the case on this occasion.
In preparing the proposal, the Commission consulted several bodies independent from the manufacturers, who worked with experts from the Member States for a long time in order to find the appropriate level of strictness on decibels for the various categories of tyres for cars, vans and lorries.
As a result of this extensive prior consultation of experts, the Member States have unanimously approved the level of strictness chosen in the proposal as a common position.
First of all, it should be noted that the quality of the road surface is, to a great extent, up to 6 decibels, responsible for the noise generated by tyre contact.
Now, at the second reading, 4 amendments have been tabled.
Amendment Nos 2, 3 and 4 propose the reduction of noise thresholds by 2 decibels.
Until grip requirements are applied, these three amendments are therefore unacceptable.
This correlation between noise and rolling, tyre grip and fuel consumption is rightly at the centre of the concern expressed in Amendment No 1.
This matter is also the subject of discussion in the Transatlantic Business Dialogue to promote the emergence of a Global Type Standard GTS 2000.
The European Commission is following this work with the intention of transposing the results into Directive 92/23/EEC in order to determine the correct balance between safety, noise and resistance.
It is for these reasons that Article 3, as worded in the common position, stipulates that the requirements on grip and on rolling resistance shall be integrated with the noise requirements in the extended timetable of 24 and 36 months respectively, following the entry into force of this directive.
Amendment No 1, which proposes to legislate again on two occasions within a period of one year after the entry into force of this directive, is not acceptable.
The Commission will then be able to amend this directive in order to include grip on dry and wet surfaces and rolling resistance for all categories of tyre.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive which we are debating today is designed to restrict the marketing and use of azocolourants used in fabric dyes and leather goods.
The annex to the directive contains a list of fabric and leather products in which the use of these suspect substances is banned.
Several countries have already introduced similar bans in their legislation and most companies established in the European Union fall into precisely this category.
However, we need a directive in order to harmonise the internal market and prevent such unilateral regulations.
Finally, as is only to be expected, the directive also contains an analytical method for detecting banned azocolourants.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy accepts the principle on which this directive is based.
The Committee on the Environment takes the view that the list of products in which the use of azocolourants is banned, as contained in the annex to the directive, should not be open.
That is the purpose of Amendment No 3.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is a small and modest report, an amendment to a directive that I, however, believe is an important and significant example of the great success of the awareness and information policies and of the fact that the regulation often comes after society has sorted itself out.
Furthermore, as far as I know, people do not normally tend to eat carpets, and therefore this level of risk could be avoided.
I repeat, I believe it is positive for us to work towards progress, for society to be one step ahead of us and that all we have to do is ratify what has already been recognised.
By means of the voluntary stamp of quality and the interim deadline of 1 January 2006, we have also succeeded in taking account of the special problems presented by the oriental carpets industry and, in spite of these problems, in also including hand-made oriental carpets in the directive in the medium term.
Following an opinion of the Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Ecotoxicity and the Environment confirming such risks, the Commission proposed in December of last year a directive restricting marketing and use of certain azocolourants which could pose a risk of cancer if they come into close contact with the skin.
The Commission proposal for a directive would introduce a ban on the use of certain azocolourants in textile and leather articles that come into close contact with the skin.
The colourants concerned are xylidines which may release any of the 21 cancer-causing amines listed in the proposed directive.
The proposal provides not only for the protection of consumers' and workers' health.
I would stress that the proposal is based on the results of independent studies on the risks of azocolourants and of the costs, benefits and trade effects of the proposed restrictions.
The Commission is unable to accept those Parliament amendments which would extend this ban by replacing the proposed list of examples of product categories covered by an exhaustive list by covering articles other than those made of textiles and leather and by including other amides.
Amendments Nos. 3, 4 and 7 of the Committee on the Environment are the ones I refer to.
Nor is the Commission able to accept amendments that would introduce a second testing method to show compliance with the provisions.
This applies to Amendment No 5 of the Committee on the Environment.
The Commission can accept in principle an exemption for handmade oriental carpets from the example list of product categories covered by the proposed directive as the risk from such carpets is likely to be low.
However, the Commission cannot accept that the exemption is only temporary.
To summarise our point of view, we can accept Amendment No 1 of the Committee on the Environment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the report before us is a position adopted by Parliament in response to a communication from the Commission on the problems associated with undeclared or illicit work.
This problem is being dealt with at European level because it relates not just to one particular country but to all Member States.
The fact is that, by definition and by its very nature, undeclared work is difficult to get to grips with in any country.
On the basis of estimates and long-term investigations, it may be assumed that a total of 28 million people engage in undeclared work.
Almost all investigations list unduly high taxes and social security contributions as a cause.
In drawing its conclusions, the Committee has, however, come up with a variety of positions derived from the very different evaluations of the various causes.
In the five minutes granted to me, I can present only a number of important points in the report.
The problem is complex and needs to be tackled at a variety of levels.
I would thank all my fellow MEPs for their splendid cooperation but, above all, the shadow rapporteur, Karin Jöns, for her constant readiness to engage in discussion.
There are some parts I do not like, such as for instance paragraph 13 which promotes tax coordination.
There is another report out today which was an annual report from the Commission, referred to in today's Financial Times under the wonderful heading "Brussels demands labour reform".
But it also addresses this problem of undeclared work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear need for action on the issue of undeclared work in all the Member States, for there have not so far been many successes in combating it.
Thirdly, undeclared work is not primarily the result of illegal immigration from third countries.
On the contrary, the majority of those who engage in undeclared work are our own citizens.
In any case, for all of us, illegal and undeclared work constitutes, by definition, an abuse of those who need to work, not least in terms of the tax burden which should ensure solidarity.
However, there are specific recommendations in the report, for example specific procedures which could be implemented in order to fight the scourge of illegal or undeclared work.
I tabled some amendments, which have already been accepted by the rapporteur, and I will therefore not dwell on them.
It is claimed that child labour does not exist in Europe, but that it might exist - as has been stated - in Italy and southern countries.
In short, we are talking about a form of exploitation in the workplace, which admittedly is detrimental to public finances due to lost revenue from tax and social contributions, but we must never forget that we are talking about the exclusion to which, according to the Commission, between 10 and 28 million citizens of the European Union are reduced.
Lumping together those offering this type of work and those accepting it is inappropriate, even shocking.
Integrate undeclared work into the labour market or adapt the job market to the existence of these excessively flexible types of work?
The serious cases of undeclared work are those that are organised as such.
There is also a tax argument which plays a big part in Mrs Glase' s thinking.
We are living in a Europe that is increasingly closer to its citizens and therefore we cannot omit to concern ourselves with employment, as employment, together with health, is one of the main concerns of the citizens and, I dare say, especially of those who are unemployed because they have lost their job or perhaps never had one.
The economic causes of undeclared work, increased income for workers, the opportunity to save on tax and social contributions or the reduction in costs for the company, are not unrelated to its existence and a significantly higher rate of growth than that of the legal or official economy.
To refer briefly to the sectors or groups in which undeclared work has the most scope for expansion, we need to include multi-job situations where the income obtained from this illegal work is supplementary; economically inactive people who have greater flexibility in terms of time and the case of the unemployed who want an additional income, often turning down offers of legal work.
In addition to these easily visible situations, it is assumed that there are also many cases of production decentralisation, outsourcing or subcontracting which, in a less direct, less visible way, can lead to undeclared work.
What we are witnessing, in fact, is the emergence of two productive systems and two social models.
Secondly, I think that the general reference to undeclared work or to certain general categories is the weak link in the approach to the problem: we all know that undeclared work cannot be dealt with as a single phenomenon and needs a policy which is differentiated by sector and sub-sector, depending on the people supplying it and the nature of the individual problem.
Then there is the matter of bogus self-employment and certain new forms of employment.
Failing to declare work is no mere peccadillo.
In Germany, for example, work is being lost due to illegal employment and, for every ten thousand jobs, DM 240 million is lost in taxes and social security contributions.
In her splendid and balanced report, Anne Glase estimates the volume of undeclared work in the EU at between 10 and 20 per cent of GNP.
The Commission has opened the debate with its communication on undeclared work in the spring of 1998.
We are pleased to say that it has stimulated debate both with the European institutions and within Member States.
Parliament also seems to share the view that the main action has to be taken at the level of Member States.
Indeed it is the mix of the situation in the labour market, the tax and social security mix, as well as the social acceptance, that determine the level of undeclared work.
The Commission is also convinced that undeclared work should be dealt with within the framework of the Luxembourg process.
We believe that undeclared work should be actively taken into account in the national action plans for employment.
We welcome Parliament's support in this.
Indeed the Commission is now carrying out a study on different measures used to combat undeclared work in selected Member States in order to identify good policy mixes.
Within its possibilities the Commission will continue to monitor the situation and report on it within the framework of existing reports on the principle of equal treatment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.)
