The particular situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life (debate) The next item is the report by Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the particular situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life.
Detention conditions for women should be included in the European Commission's annual report on human rights in the EU.
The Commission promotes policies to combat the exclusion of vulnerable groups, and this therefore includes, in particular, people in custody.
We are aware that in order to tackle the challenges faced by imprisoned women, the Member States and the Commission must focus on living conditions in prisons, the essential maintenance of family ties and social relations and, of course, the importance of social and professional reintegration.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SK) The own-initiative report on women in prisons is highly symbolic.
In conclusion, I want to draw your attention in particular to paragraph 22 of the report and stress the emphasis Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou places on maintaining family ties.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and her open disposition, which enabled important agreements to be reached on the amendments tabled by my Group.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I will speak on this matter in a personal capacity.
Most of what Ms Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou states in her report is, of course, correct.
But does it perhaps not relate, I wonder, to a world that is ideal rather than realistic, a world in which prisons should indeed function not just for punishing sentenced individuals but mainly for rehabilitating them?
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw attention to two issues referred to in the report.
Such a sentence should therefore only be imposed in exceptional circumstances.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, this own-initiative report is important because the situation of women in prison needs to be put under the spotlight at last and problems identified.
We cannot have any repetition of the situation in Germany, for example, where babies only a few months old have been taken away from their mothers because there are no mother and child places available in prison, leading to months of separation.
That is why taking part in religious services can bring about positive changes in the lives of these prisoners.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, equal opportunities must also be extended to people in prison.
The report is excellent, and I recommend its adoption. (GA) Mr President, I welcome Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou's own-initiative report on the examination of the situation of women in prison.
A report was published in 2004 and another last year detailing the horrible conditions of the average female prisoner in my own constituency in Northern Ireland.
Why would we do this, when what most of these women need most is a stable, loving relationship in their life? (RO) The report under discussion reveals a series of problems encountered in this field by the Member States.
I congratulate the rapporteur on the effort. (CS) Mr President, as we have heard, women make up only 5% of the European prison population.
Half of these are mothers with young children and most of them have suffered violence and abuse in the past.
The report stresses that the Member States must encourage the development of specific conditions for women in detention centres.
I find it upsetting that women inside prisons could, depending on the outcome of the vote tomorrow, have different rights to women who are outside prison walls.
I was also very interested in the comments made by Mrs Záborská - which were echoed in different ways by a number of speakers - on the whole issue of family ties and ties to children, which, of course, require some extremely specific approaches.
The vote will take place on Thursday 13 March.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) I would like to draw attention to the fact that while women represent approximately 4-5% of the prison population in Europe, and while the proportion of women in prisons in many European countries is growing at a faster rate than the male prison population, prisons themselves continue to be designed primarily for men and tend to ignore the particular problems of the growing female prison population.
