United Nations Human Rights Council (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the fifth session of the UN Human Rights Council which will take place in Geneva on 11-19 June 2007.
Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, ladies and gentlemen, from the very outset the European Union welcomed the creation of the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2006 but has always emphasised that it expects the Council to be an efficient and credible body making a genuine contribution to the global protection and promotion of human rights.
In short, there is at least movement on that front in Darfur.
They have enabled us to approach the human-rights situation in individual countries - often in connection with more general human-rights issues - in a highly visible as well as far less confrontational manner.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (LT) First of all I would like to thank Council and Commission representatives for their reports about the first working year of the United Nations Human Rights Council and for the fifth United Nations Human Rights Council session.
Tomorrow the European Parliament will vote on a resolution concerning this issue, which sets out all the basic problems, such as our aspirations for the Human Rights Council's modus operandi, its mechanisms, special procedures, special rapporteurs, universal periodic review, and the role of the European Union.
Furthermore, it is essential to apply clear criteria when choosing members for the Human Rights Council: simple logic indicates that countries, in which there are gross violations of human rights, should not be chosen as members of the Human Rights Council.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) The Human Rights Council was created as a replacement for the Human Rights Commission and was faced with the by no means easy challenge of not falling into excessive politicisation and governmental interference in such an important area as overseeing universal respect for human rights.
Just the countries of Africa and Asia together can, with their 29 seats, steer the Council's work in a direction which differs from the aims of Western countries in the area of human rights.
I wish to thank the German Presidency, which has shown exemplary firmness in its call for prohibiting the death penalty. (PL) Mr President, it is now more than a year since the European Parliament cautiously welcomed the creation of the UN Human Rights Council to replace the discredited Commission on Human Rights.
The European Union, the Member States and European Parliament delegations have all been actively involved in the work of the Council.
It therefore goes without saying that we must not only promote our values but also defend all of our interests.
