This federal project for Europe will strengthen the expression of a true European identity and help spread our cultural and linguistic diversity across the world.
The first part of this initiative, namely the communication of 30 September 2005, was based on three main aspects: digitisation, online access and preservation of digital content.
On the basis of these different elements the Commission adopted a recommendation on digitisation, online access and digital preservation on 24 August 2006, in which it calls on the Member States to accelerate the pace of digitisation and to coordinate their efforts in order to achieve real synergy.
Our libraries offer the advantage of already being coordinated at European level through the TEL, the European library that was set up in 2005 by the national libraries, which holds a large stock of digital works that are in the public domain and therefore can be used immediately.
The report therefore proposes, with the agreement of the copyright holders, that in the European digital library users should be able to browse the Internet to find any kind of digital documents, whatever their status, and to consult works in the public domain freely and in their entirety, whereas only short extracts would be accessible for copyright works.
I would like to conclude by thanking all my colleagues in the Committee on Culture and Education, especially Mr Weber and Mr Graça Moura, for their support and contribution to this report.
They are right to do so; our Heads of State and Government are right to support this initiative, because there is real wealth in our libraries, our archives and our museums.
This common access point will be launched in 2008.
We are also very conscious that the preservation of digital material will be one of the essential questions of the future, and I am therefore glad that the Council has endorsed the Commission approach to the European digital library and that Parliament is now helping us move in the same direction and is putting its political weight behind this objective.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I must warmly congratulate Mrs Descamps on her brilliant report.
The Descamps report will be a highlight of this legislature in terms of the relationship between cutting-edge technology and European culture through the ages.
However, we must all make efforts to get things moving.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Umberto Eco said that whoever reads books lives twice.
Famous people such as Karl Marx, Oscar Wilde, Mahatma Gandhi, Rudyard Kipling, George Orwell, George Bernard Shaw, even Vladimir Lenin, are just some of the figures who have studied in the reading rooms of the British Museum and British libraries.
I have high hopes, especially in view of the plan to include in the coordination system for the European digital library not only scientific research on digitisation but also the very important issue of the protection of digital resources.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to Mrs Descamps and the other members of the Committee on Culture and Education for having produced this report, because it is a very important one indeed.
You see, Europe's true wealth is to be found not in the euro or in our economic development: it is in our heritage, a heritage that across the centuries has been created and built up; that is what constitutes the real and profound source of Europe's riches.
I believe that this is one of the great advances that Europe has made and I would like to pay homage to the national libraries, to our national libraries, because they were there at the launch of this initiative, which has been so valid and so important for European cultures.
In 2008 we shall be presenting an analysis of what has been achieved and also, therefore, of what has not been achieved.
I would like to thank all the speakers very much, and especially Commissioner Reding for her charm and intelligence.
