Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 May 2001.
On my own personal behalf and on behalf of the European Parliament, I immediately expressed our deepest sympathy and our sincere condolences to the family of Mr Giménez Abad.
I shall now ask you, please, to observe a minute' s silence. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Agenda The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 10 May pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
Madam President, in voting as we did just now as a group on the Cameroon question, we were assuming that other groups would help us in raising Guatemala, the position of Rios Montt and the very serious human rights violations next month; we should also like to propose that this topic, major reports and the situation in Congo be dealt with next month, since we are directly involved as the EU and it appears that next month will be possible.
In that case we can deal now with the serious situation regarding the floods in France.
I think, in fact, that we can assume that things will move in that direction. (Parliament gave its assent) As far as Wednesday 30 and Thursday 31 May 2001 are concerned, no amendments have been tabled.
Speeches on procedure Madam President, I have a point of order concerning the death penalty in the United States.
Thank you, Mr Ford.
As you are no doubt aware, we have decided to agree to be joint organisers of an extremely important congress, to be held in June, on the universal abolition of the death penalty.
Most unusually, the formal session will even take place in the European Parliament building, as a way of demonstrating our commitment.
Madam President, you mentioned the elections in the Basque Autonomous Community.
We, Euskal Herritarrok, have paid for that.
The election results give us a clear message.
A large majority of the Basque people is urging political parties to come back to the 1998 agreement of Lizarra for a breakthrough from the actual situation.
Thank you very much, Madam President.
Madam President, I should like to raise a particular issue pursuant to Rule 44 (5) of the Rules of Procedure on priority questions, which the Commission must answer within three weeks.
Thank you, Mr Alavanos.
Madam President, if I understood you correctly, the Spanish Constitutional Court has confirmed your opinion, and ruled that requests for the lifting of immunity, even from the Spanish Supreme Court, must be addressed to you through the Spanish government.
Thank you, Mr Schulz.
The answer is no.
Secondly, when I do receive such a request, I shall simply follow Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that any request addressed to the President by the appropriate authority of a Member State - it is clear, therefore, that the authority is the appropriate one - that the immunity of a Member be waived shall be announced in Parliament - that is the rule - and referred to the committee responsible.
I should like to thank all my fellow Members for voting in favour of this resolution.
It is also important from the point of view of a possible future assessment of less harmful tobacco products.
Large cigarette manufacturers, such as Philip Morris, agree with what Parliament and the Council were trying to achieve on this point.
I should like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation of the Council.
Although the Portuguese Presidency worked on this in the preliminary stages and the Swedish Presidency in the final phase, I have the greatest appreciation for the French Presidency, which played a crucial role on this point and also for the Commissioner.
Perhaps I may for once breach protocol and also mention John Ryan who has been active for years in the Commission on this matter and has played a crucial part.
Finally, the final result is, I believe, better than either the joint position of the Council or the final text of Parliament.
This shows that the codecision procedure with equal involvement of Parliament, despite its cumbersome nature, is nevertheless the best way of reaching decisions in this Union.
Madam President, as the rapporteur has already said, this is not the first time that tobacco has been on the agenda.
The first is on young people and smoking.
A second observation concerns the subsidies on tobacco.
The agreement reached in the Conciliation Committee endorses the rapporteur's excellent work and consolidates the climate of cooperation established in this House on a matter which is so very sensitive for the European citizens.
For once, the rules harmonising the internal market have given greater consideration to the health of the European citizens than to the interests of the large manufacturers.
This text is, once and for all, a significant example of how the European Union intends to respond to the citizens' ever-increasing demand for protection of their health.
The second key point concerns the definitive regulation of the substances added to tobacco products.
Moreover, by 2004, the Commission will have to present a proposal defining a common positive list of authorised ingredients.
In fact you could take this report into the schools and say: Look, this is an example of the way in which a European directive can be produced through consultation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
The number of non-smoking train compartments must be increased everywhere.
I experienced first hand that giving up smoking is a lot more difficult than starting.
Mr President, as we are all aware, smoking tobacco has many serious effects on public health.
Mr President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak on this very important subject.
I congratulate the rapporteur for his handling of this report through three readings and lengthy negotiations with the Council in the conciliation process.
The final text which we will vote on tomorrow is to be welcomed as the fruit of successful negotiation.
The House has made it clear from the beginning that we expect strict rules to be applied in the whole area of producing, packaging and marketing cigarettes and other tobacco products.
The new regulations being proposed will be a significant step forward.
Smokers are less long-lived and their health is less good.
In addition the tobacco industry tries, through the use of misleading messages like 'mild' and 'light' , to create the impression that the tobacco products concerned are less harmful.
However, when in December last year Parliament had approved 32 amendments on second reading, things looked very different.
However, I believe that most amendments were an improvement of the common position.
The European Parliament even wanted to make the warning message on a packet of cigarettes more forceful by replacing the general warning 'smoking kills' or 'smoking can kill' with more confrontational texts like: In the EU half a million people die each year from the consequences of smoking, or smoking causes cancer and heart diseases or passive smoking is harmful to those around you, especially children.
Now, we will actually obtain a reduced nicotine content and tar content in cigarettes, and we will also obtain some rules on the additives that the industry has used to date.
We have had a discussion concerning what I will call export hypocrisy in this matter.
It cannot be right for us in the EU to sell cigarettes outside our own region that we believe are so damaging to health that they should not be used by our own citizens.
This directive recasts several existing directives from the late 1980s.
Importantly, these rules now apply to all imported products and to all products manufactured in the Community.
Manufacturers and importers will in future be obliged to declare these constituents.
This will be done before 31 December 2002.
In a previous declaration when the first reading took place, I undertook to consult with tobacco experts in drawing up this report and any subsequent proposals.
However, I must draw your attention to the difficulty the Commission envisages in respecting the deadline imposed in Article 5(3) of this text, which leaves little time to consult these committees and subsequently to adopt rules for the use of colour photographs on warnings.
In the coming weeks, I also hope to meet my undertaking to present a new proposal on tobacco advertising and sponsorship.
Finally, let me again express my appreciation for your support and confidence in ensuring the rapid adoption of this important directive and for the words expressed in respect of the Commission's involvement.
The debate is closed.
In this case, the Council referred to a conciliation made with Mr Staes after we had started working on the report in the first reading.
Mr Staes will submit an oral amendment in this area which involves a certain expansion, and which I am able to approve.
Member States are obliged to inform the Commission immediately and in full of any case of contamination.
I am very glad that one important principle is enshrined in this report as it goes through to the next stage: animal feed should be taken as seriously for all of us in our own interests as human food.
The two are more or less indistinguishable, both in their effects on human kind and on the animals with whom we share this planet.
I have known and represented that place for 30 years.
Thank you very much, Mr Whitehead.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of my group I would like to thank my colleague for her very creditable work.
Co-operation and inspections must be conducted transparently, including checks made in Member States as mentioned in Amendment No 5.
Thirdly, it will provide a system to exchange information in the field of animal nutrition, with particular reference to a rapid alert system.
The common position adopted by the Council last February, which was also endorsed by the Commission, improved the Commission proposal.
The three main issues of the proposal were properly addressed in the common position, which also includes many of the suggestions made by Parliament in first reading.
Concerning the amendments tabled for this Parliament, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4, which will improve the clarity of the text.
The Commission can also accept Amendment No 5, because it takes into consideration the evolution of other important legislation in this sector, such as the TSE regulation approved by the European Parliament at the last Parliament part-session.
If that oral amendment is tabled, it will take the place of Amendment No 5.
The five amendments to the Paulsen report are correct in terms of the principles and I hope that the Council will also agree that they deserve to be incorporated in the final directive.
The debate is closed.
This is why we have had to make a few amendments to the common position.
I presented six amendments at second reading, which refer in particular to the action plan that stemmed from the Nice Summit, which it is important to refer to because it clarifies many of the points that we wanted to raise.
I have asked for some follow-up action from Member States.
All of these amendments are admissible and I have had discussions again with the Swedish Presidency to make certain that they are in line.
As a result of this report we will be taking a few, albeit tentative, steps towards creating mobility for those in education, teachers, students, academics and others, so that they can actually move from one country to another within the European Union, make that a reality and take a first step forward.
The mobility programme gives students, teachers, volunteers, placement students and others the opportunity of gaining experience abroad.
With an internal market that is operating more and more efficiently, in which people increasingly go and work in other countries, and with an increasingly multicultural society that is extremely important.
Perhaps even more importantly, Mr President, it has been shown that participants, develop a greater sense of Europe, the European intellectual tradition and the importance of European cooperation.
At the first reading a first initiative was taken towards measures that would remove these hindrances.
I am therefore glad that the report on which we are voting this week provides for an evaluation, a report on the implementation of the programme and the measures taken by Member States in this area.
As the rapporteur has already said: they experience the same obstacles and I am delighted that the Commission hopes to be able to present a recommendation on the subject shortly.
This is a great day for education policy throughout Europe.
The more people that move to another country for a period - whether for education or for work purposes - the greater will be the understanding between our peoples at a human, cultural and professional level.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the unanimity in committee shows that, overall, we are satisfied with the progress made since our last debate on 4 October last year.
A previous speaker has pointed out that we still have not reached our goal in the matter of taxation, the recognition of health insurance, employment and social law, social security and the mutual recognition of academic qualifications.
We attach fundamental importance to it, as Members of this House have said, from the point of view not only of the personal enrichment of the individual but also of the creation of the great European family.
Mr Evans, I should like to thank you so much for the work that you have undertaken, for your commitment and for your efforts to find solutions to problems that are not always easy, owing to the institutional barriers which, unfortunately, prevent us from making progress as rapidly as all of us would wish.
The European Parliament has proved to be extremely cooperative.
However, by continuing the debate on the recommendation, I think that we are nevertheless progressing along the lines proposed at the Lisbon and Nice Summits, which recommended that education and training policies should play a major role in European economic growth and social renewal, and which therefore made mobility one of the key elements of those policies.
It is also from this viewpoint, Mr President, that we should understand the action plan for mobility approved by the Nice Council, since it provides an operational supplement to the measures laid down in the recommendation and constitutes the expression of a new commitment to mobility on the part of the Member States.
Before I set out the position that the Commission intends to adopt on the occasion of this second reading, I hope you will permit me to refer back to the amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading, since your rapporteur has mentioned them.
I am pleased to be able to say that both the Commission, in its amended proposal of 9 November last, and the Council, in its proposal of 19 January, have accepted, either in whole or in part, the great majority of those amendments, particularly those intended to improve the quality of the text in order to reinforce Community action.
The text of the common position thus incorporates 40 of the 56 amendments approved by Parliament at first reading.
Some of these amendments, namely Amendments Nos 1 and 3, add an explicit reference to the action plan for mobility as a new legal act covering the area of mobility.
Nevertheless, in the recital amended by Amendment No 1, I should like to add a reference to the Nice Council, which was originally provided in Amendment No 3.
I also agree with Amendment Nos 2 and 4 which provide clarification regarding the action taken in response to the recommendation, in particular with regard to the timing and content of the reports by the Member States and the Commission on the implementation of the recommendation.
This results in a more flexible form of words, whereby the mobility referred to by the recommendation is the mobility of limited duration which appeared in the Commission' s original proposal.
I should also like to remind the House of the important role assigned to Parliament in Community initiatives on the subject of mobility, such as the communication on the new European employment markets which makes provision, amongst other things, for the setting up of a high-level task force on qualifications and mobility, or the Social Agenda, which recommends the modernisation of the rules in order to ensure that workers' social rights are retained in the context of mobility.
I should like to draw this latter text to the attention of those Members who have quite rightly pointed out that one of the major problems that still remain to be solved concerns the area of social affairs.
Finally, I should like to make it clear to you how much I am committed, on behalf of the Commission as a whole, to the rapid implementation of the mechanism provided in the recommendation.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the report which I have drafted as rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport is based on a Commission text published in January 2000 entitled "Designing tomorrow' s education: promoting innovation with new technologies".
As you know, the European Council moved very fast after that with the conclusions from the Lisbon Council in March, containing positions on the transition to a competitive, dynamic, knowledge-based economy, and the initiatives of the European Council in Santa Maria de Feira on e-Europe and e-Learning.
Five: we must not confine these technologies to primary, secondary and tertiary and traditional forms of education; we must also consider adults, lifelong learning and all the people outside the formal education cycle and process, as well as taking account of the huge role of these technologies in combating unemployment.
The very existence of this debate shows that in the European Parliament, and indeed with the Commission and the Council, we have been pushing for more attention to be paid to the role of Europe in education.
The prosperity of our Continent depends upon the level of education offered to our citizens.
The other reports we are debating this evening deal with the present and the future.
After Lisbon and Stockholm, we are left in no doubt as to the importance Europe places on developing a knowledge economy.
I am sure that with Commissioner Reding and her team future Commission activity in response to the increased priority for education agreed at the Lisbon and Stockholm Summits will be better than that detailed in my report.
There are certainly many projects mentioned which are worthy of further exploration: the European credit transfer system, for instance.
But as the debate we had earlier this evening shows us, 40 years on from the start of the EU, 15 years after the Single European Act, we cannot yet say there is mutual recognition of academic qualifications across Europe There are some things that can and should be done at a European level.
Because in some Member States that is not yet a requirement.
The single market requires a much more mobile workforce than we currently have.
A correct interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity: the e-Learning action plan has succeeded in finding a niche in the sensitive debate on the use made by the States of their national education systems, demonstrating that the term 'European educational area' is a realistic, positive concept in which we must have confidence without fear of undermining the cultural identities of our countries.
Moreover, the subject of new technologies is certainly one which we can develop further to enhance these common elements.
The second positive element lies, in my opinion, in the fact that the e-Learning action plan favours a positive and - I would add - social approach to certain typical effects of globalisation.
Well then, if we do not now place European teachers in a position to make proper, realistic use of new technologies, we will be turning them into pseudo-Virgils, that is Virgils who will not be capable of guiding Dante - the Dante who is each of their pupils - along the path which will lead him to purification and knowledge, because they do not have access to the new metaphors, the new structures, the new digital technologies that can provide an educational system which is, at last, free from the constraints of a culture which is not infrequently disjointed and disordered.
We will have to find a way to explain why this progression is necessary within the Union's education systems and how very necessary it is.
I would like to end by thanking our fellow Members once again and entrusting to them the heart of our message, in particular, which is that, as I have stressed, the new technologies are a tool, they are a means - not the end - but a means that is absolutely essential right now.
In this major debate on education we have added a question to the Commission and the Council - unfortunately the Council is unable to be present - because we believe that now, when everyone is suddenly talking about a European educational area, the European Parliament that has always talked about it and fought for it, but which has always been blocked by the Council of Ministers, cannot simply look on while it, the elected representative of the citizens, is bypassed in matters which are very important and which we have been advocating for a long time.
I think it was indecent - perhaps that is too strong a word - improper to ask Parliament on 8 February for an opinion on the future objectives of general vocational training systems that was presented to the Council just four weeks later.
We must, however, always bear in mind that this is an area of policy that we cannot carry through without the support of the Member States.
In our opinion, the general consideration of the future role of general vocational training in the context of the open method of coordination must have regard not only for the contributions of the Member States, but also, and, above all, for the contributions of the European Parliament and the Commission, while safeguarding the principle of subsidiarity.
Two pilot projects are planned for Spain, France and Germany - the large countries - but the Commission says nothing about the other countries.
Our rapporteur, whom I thank for his report, believes that even knowledge of two languages would be a success.
Because quite a few Member States have more than one official language.
If we look at the most recent survey of knowledge of languages carried out by Eurostat, we see that less than half, only 45%, of citizens of the European Union can conduct a conversation in any but their native language.
Lifelong learning has a much wider significance than that: it is also important for personal fulfilment and as a means of developing responsible citizenship, encouraging people to play a full part in their community.
Through informal and non-credited learning it can also be a very effective way of involving both adults and young people in the most disadvantaged areas, who are those most threatened by social exclusion and poverty but who often have very negative attitudes towards formal education and so are least likely to benefit from it.
Therefore I agree with the rapporteur that even as an interim report, on what was after all an ambitious White Paper, this is a disappointing summary of progress on this most important issue.
I hope future reports will be more positive and can be useful tools in themselves for those working in education.
In this context, I would ask the Commission to look into the possibility of laying down a more suitable legal framework, which will genuinely complement the action of Member States in this field.
At the same time, we take the greatest interest in the way in which existing preparatory action is implemented in this field in this year' s budget, that is the budget for 2001.
We are therefore calling for new access to be created specifically for women, for special software to be developed for women, because they use the Internet differently and because women are still lagging a long way behind in qualifications.
I think we still have a good chance of achieving something here with our action plan.
This is why I think that in future we ought to operate slightly differently.
The Heads of State and Government took the decisions at the European Summit in Stockholm, on 23 and 24 March 2001, on the basis of the text adopted by the Education Council on 12 February.
There will be new material in the texts, I hope, but not in the structure, because now there will be follow-up action.
The next Education Council, due to take place on 29 November 2001, is already preparing for the Barcelona Summit.
The Council, the Councils of Feira, Lisbon, Stockholm and now also of Nice, have stressed the importance and role of education and training in society and for the knowledge society.
I should like to underline that today education and training are, first of all, the European Union' s most important political priorities; secondly, they are a political challenge and an economic challenge, because we all know that without education and training we cannot offer young people training places.
On the other hand, however, the European Union and, above all, the Council, is a very great minimalist when it comes to actually giving these great projects financial resources.
The European Union has, in fact, always been mean in the budgets for education.
I hope that the revision of this Socrates programme that will probably take place within the next two years will also bring Socrates a little more money.
I am pleased, and Parliament can be pleased, that there is now an e-Learning initiative.
These programmes have their purpose!
The first issue is the European educational area which hovers above all the reports rather like a question mark, and we undoubtedly have a variety of views on this: there is no doubt whatsoever, and this is without prejudice to the concept of subsidiarity, that we need to coordinate our education policies in the Union in pursuit of the Lisbon goals.
These reports also point to the development of educational content.
At the risk of courting controversy I would remind you that Cisco Systems and Microsoft are already in our schools providing content.
It is not just the key to a successful European single market, it is the key to a successful Union in its social and political content as well as its economic content.
I would argue that for universal access to mobility we need to have universal access to language teaching and learning.
Mr President, Mrs Reding, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is to become, in the words of the Lisbon and Stockholm declarations, the most dynamic and competitive knowledge economy.
The fact that today we are holding here this combined debate on the new technologies and mobility in education, shows that the European Union is really willing to work seriously towards this and in so doing we underline that importance.
The three reports on e-Learning by Messrs Mauro, Perry and Alavanos are excellent.
I should therefore like to thank them warmly for the work that they have done.
My group, the ELDR, attaches great importance to the e-Learning project for both pupils and teachers.
Lifelong learning, even after one has withdrawn from the active employment circuit and training opportunities in the new technologies outside mainstream institutions, must both be encouraged.
I should, however, like to state clearly that my group feels that the European Parliament should have an input in the follow-up report and we must be very closely involved.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate our rapporteurs and thank them for the many ideas they have thrown up, on which we shall vote in concrete reports.
I wish that were true, I hope it is true, but what do we want to achieve, where do we want to be in five years' time and in ten years' time?
The trend towards mass education in the 60s, 70s and 80s has now been replaced by a new model in keeping with the latest demands of big business, which wants a constant supply of cheap, semi-skilled labour and a small, highly-qualified elite.
The reports under discussion, especially the Perry report, not only fail to oppose the guidelines in the White Paper, their sole criticism is of the delay in implementing them.
Culture and education are the main victims, since they become confined within their own borders.
Of course the State must provide free education for all, but it must not exercise absolute control.
I believe that one of our first debates should be on subsidiarity, because there is plenty of legal literature on subsidiarity and not just this current popular interpretation of it.
Since their powers are limited, the States cannot act beyond their own borders.
I therefore ask for a debate to be opened on the principle of subsidiarity, in order to analyse the extent to which this often limits the freedom of our citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, it is no coincidence that we are now having a joint debate here on a number of extremely important reports.
That will come later, Parliament will have its say on this, but I regret its absence because the concept of lifelong learning is, in fact, a very important concept that should be an overarching framework for the things we are discussing this evening.
I would ask you urgently, Commissioner, to take joint responsibility with us for it, because the Bologna Declaration is not just about a number of concrete objectives, but also about the democratisation of education and lifelong learning.
Mr President, I welcome the paper on the e-Learning initiative and congratulate the rapporteur on its content.
Therefore preparing for the use of information and communication technologies is becoming increasingly important.
The training of teachers in this field is a top priority.
But my concern is that once teachers return to their respective schools they return to find that very little ICT facilities are available for them.
It is equally important to make training and education in the information society available to all individuals throughout their lives to realise job opportunities and for personal development as well.
It is a correct and important trend that we have started, but more needs to be done and I am therefore very pleased that the Commission and the Swedish Presidency have started the European School Net, the e-scola initiative.
In February the EU Ministers for Education adopted a report on the concrete objectives of educational systems in the Member States.
What we have overlooked is the enormous interest of the Committee on Culture and Education in these matters, which will be crucial over the next decade and which are crucial to the future of Europe.
In particular, lifelong learning is becoming more important to people's everyday lives, whether as regards access to opportunities to employment, or in using ATM machines to get cash, or having to go on-line to get banking and other services because local public services are being closed down in an era of competition and liberalisation.
That is why it is important at this juncture in the European Parliament that when we speak about education we make sure that it is all-inclusive.
So, over the next ten years - as my colleague has said - the area we should focus on is ensuring that people now in middle age are given the tools of knowledge, information and education in order to be able to live in the altered world which will be coming about.
I offer my support to the reports which have been submitted.
We can therefore expect to see this change making itself felt in the everyday practice in our schools.
Yet there is no doubt that either most of the ideas proposed in 1995 are now being put into practice, or else we now have the tools with which to push them forward.
So I am not as pessimistic as some Members of Parliament on this point, because I have seen, and I have felt, that the situation has been developing since the Lisbon Summit.
The Commission can encourage, it can push, it can come up with ideas, but when it comes to implementation on the ground, that is up to the Ministers for Education, not to mention the trades unions and the social partners.
A whole new system of informal training schemes will have to be created in most Member States.
Of course, at the moment there are only a thousand of them.
These thousand schools, however, represent experience on the ground.
I should like to thank not only the European Parliament, which is pushing things forward, but also all those people who are working 'at the coalface' , with a great deal of idealism, often alone, with very meagre resources, putting their hearts into it because they believe in progress.
They are remarkable people, and I think we should say thank you to all those who, on the ground, are helping to put our ideas into practice.
The e-Learning action plan is also helping to change things.
In spite of this, we have drawn up an impressive number of pilot projects, which we have funded and which have often provided the basis for reforms on the ground.
The project was recently the subject of an assessment, Mr Perry, which will shortly be referred to Parliament.
This assessment confirms the great success of the pilot project and the thirteen schools.
As you know, from now on education ministers will be taking part in debates on social issues, on the same footing as ministers for social affairs and ECOFIN.
The first is the principle of access for everyone.
You know that immediately after the Lisbon Summit the e-Learning plan gave rise to various initiatives in some Member States, aimed at installing computers in the classroom.
In my opinion, therefore, we must never separate the tool from the person who is using it.
We have discussed this issue a great deal in recent weeks.
Teachers are the key to the success of e-Learning.
I would like to say here and now that this new world will happen not only as a result of participation by the public services but also as a result of the world of industry becoming more responsible.
This is why, last week, I organised the first e-Learning summit in Brussels, in partnership with both the public and the private sectors.
Yes, Europe is showing the way, but these theories are not put into practice in some ivory tower in Brussels.
They are put into practice in our regions, our towns and our villages.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
I am also pleased to inform you that, to conclude this debate, the Presidency has received a motion for a resolution B5-341/2001, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, on which the vote will be held on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 8.43 p.m.)
