Population and housing censuses (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Juknevičienė, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on population and housing censuses - C6-0078/2007 - .
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, population and housing censuses are the central building block for all statistical reporting on the people that live in the European Union.
The regulation will also be an important milestone for international cooperation in the area of population and housing censuses in which the European Commission, via Eurostat, has been active over many years.
This is why the European Commission supports the debate that is still ongoing and sincerely hopes that a solution will be found that is acceptable to a broad majority within this House, as well as to the Member States represented in the Council.
The EU statistics and, accordingly, the regulation have a juridical basis, provided for in Article 285 of the EU Treaty.
We need to get this regulation up and running in order to achieve our objectives.
It is in fact a very important report with a view to the planning and assessment of regional and social policies in the various Member States and, in that respect, the socio-economic profile of the population of Europe and housing conditions are among the most decisive aspects for measuring the improvement in living conditions.
We are in favour in particular of deleting sections 1.3 and 2.3 of the Annex, as well as certain subsequent amendments that in our view are not consistent with the aims of improving the quality and reliability of the information.
The new voting method included in that Treaty, which will henceforth take account not only of the Member States' vote, but also of the population figures, means that we must be aware that population censuses are crucial for the effective operation of the European Union.
for the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on population and housing censuses presented by the Commission is a step in the right direction, like the previous proposals on statistics on health and safety at work and on job vacancies.
I also agree with the Commission's statement during the last population and housing censuses for 2001 that the collection of data from individual Member States based solely on 'gentlemen's agreements' is inadequate for achieving sufficiently comparable results.
I think that in compiling any statistical information we must above all respect the protection of personal data and the privacy of individuals, and we must prevent a disproportional increase in the number of tasks required of the data providers.
I will recommend that the GUE/NGL Group vote in this sense.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, on 20 November, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I was pleased to support the rapporteur, Ms Juknevičienė, in her Amendment 32 to delete paragraph 1.3.2 so as to exclude the intrusive and offensive question about women's first sexual act, dressed up as 'consensual union'.
Cultural differences can - as we have seen increasingly in recent times - escalate all too easily.
The most transparent solution is that proposed by my Group, the PPE-DE, which omits all references in the annex to concrete types of statistical data.
Accurate and precise statistics regarding housing allow the Union and the Member States to implement adequate policies in this field.
Unfortunately, today, there are over 60 million citizens living below the poverty line in the European Union, and children are most exposed to the risk of poverty.
In Romania, 95% of the houses are private property and only 5% of the houses are rented or are subsidized houses.
In Denmark, 47% of the houses are inhabited by tenants or are subsidized houses, in Austria 42%, in Finland 37%, in France 44% and in Germany 57%.
Statistics represent only a starting point in developing adequate housing policies for each Member State.
The Union does not have competence in this field.
At European level, however, we need to target the data which will lead to a better cohesion policy and improved regional development, so that inequalities are eliminated and the gap between different social groups and different European regions is narrowed.
However, there is a need for regular evaluation and corroboration of the statistics gathered by the competent agencies, and these agencies must undergo quality control and transparency checks.
These are proposals which are to be found in Annexes 1.3 and 2.3 and on which the Member States should report of their own accord.
The Commission supports the debate that is still ongoing and sincerely hopes that a solution will be found that is acceptable to a broad majority within this House, as well as to the Member States represented in the Council.
The main point was that this legislation does not sufficiently assure data confidentiality.
The proposal on censuses does not violate or modify any of this legislation.
There is no need to repeat established framework legislation on data confidentiality within this specific proposal on censuses.
