The human rights of women and of the girl-child are still far from being an unalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights, called for in the United Nations Vienna Declaration of 1993.
In my report I dealt in detail with the situation of women and girls in developing countries and I have also looked at ways in which European development cooperation can improve the lives of these women.
I also applaud the 41 practical measures in the areas of responsible governance, employment, the economy, education, health and violence against women.
In this connection I welcome the amendments proposed by Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of the Greens and thank her for her important contributions.
With regard to our policy towards partner countries, we recognise the need to engage in really thoroughgoing political dialogue.
All these concerns are central to the Communication entitled Gender Equality and Women Empowerment in Development Cooperation, adopted by the Commission on 8 March 2007.
The policy set out there constitutes a response to commitments made in the European Consensus on Development with regard to gender equality in all our cooperation policies and practices.
The 'Investing in human resources' programme has EUR 57 million for targeted 'gender' activities between 2007 and 2013: that is an annual average roughly three times higher than our spending up to 2006.
It is true that we still have a long way to go but I am convinced that, with a shared commitment to promoting gender equality and, most importantly, in cooperation with women in the developing countries, we will be capable of fighting poverty and building fairer societies.
Draftswoman, Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (RO) Dear colleagues, I see that the report has already provoked reactions.
The objective was clear, we support women's role in development cooperation.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SK) Preparing the report on gender equality and women's empowerment could not have been easy, as its size testifies.
Although I do not agree with everything in the report by our colleague Mrs Uca, I would like to congratulate her on the consistency and accuracy of her approach to this topic.
When debating this matter we should underscore our support for women's dignity and their role in acting for the common good in society.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) On behalf of my Group may I say that we emphatically support Mrs Uca's report and we congratulate the Commissioner on this gender strategy.
Women play an essential part in combating poverty, but they still do not have equal access to education, healthcare, employment or property ownership.
At the same time, most of our partner countries' strategic programmes simply ignore women altogether.
As the report correctly emphasises, women's full enjoyment of their sexual and reproductive health and rights is a prerequisite for achieving gender equality.
Reaching these targets implies a genuine commitment and action and, most of all, it implies our good faith in our relations with developing countries.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Mr President, 750 million women are living in poverty, and these women are fighting for their own survival as well as that of their families.
The role of women is inestimable; yet their abilities and potential are not appreciated.
As has been said many times already, these rights are crucial to enable women to take responsibility for their own and thus their families' lives.
Here, I do not need to reiterate the figures on women living in abject poverty, women who are illiterate and suffering from AIDS or malaria and the many women victims of physical and sexual violence, especially in their homes, even in Europe.
The two things are unconnected, and I fail to understand why this report makes a connection between them. . - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just this once I do not intend to speak about the report itself - on which I congratulate the rapporteur - but rather on the amendments soon to be put to the vote, and I wish to say that I find the amendments proposed by our UEN colleagues literally scandalous. (Applause) By refusing to countenance in the report any consideration of, or reference to, the problems of contraception, the UEN is effectively refusing to recognise that women in the southern hemisphere are entitled to a decent life.
The amendments proposed by the PPE-DE Group are no less regrettable.
It goes without saying that a woman has a right to her own body.
No one would think of refusing a man the right to decide on his own reproduction or say that it was a question of cultural values to refuse a man the possibility of earning his own money and maintaining his own independence.
Human rights - by which I understand equality not just in theory but also in practice - must be the watchword.
Of course, it is not for us in the rich world to force a particular way of life on other people, but we have, as I think it is important to point out, a responsibility to render possible choices where there are no choices today.
Perhaps Mr Hutchinson might tell us what is so terrible about getting that information?
According to the UNFPA, in Asia alone, at least 60 million girls are 'missing'.
In some countries it is reported that sex selection is more common in cities, where technologies such as amniocentesis and ultrasound are readily available and open to misuse.
The shortage of women and girls in some Asian countries has potentially alarming social repercussions, including increased demand for trafficking in women, whether for marriage or for sex work, and the worsening of their status overall.
We are simply seeking information ... (The President cut off the speaker.) Mr President, I congratulate my colleague Ms Uca on this excellent report and I welcome the two-track approach, endorsed by the Commission in its communication, focusing on both gender mainstreaming and specific actions to empower women.
Finally, I am shocked by several medieval conceptions reflected in some amendments to this report put forward by some colleagues on sexual and reproductive health matters.
I will vote against them, evidently. (DE) Mr President, I too want to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report and also congratulate the Commission on its communication.
That is why I call on the Commissioner to be consistent, to advise his delegations that there is also talk in the respective capitals about the attitude taken in New York, because our goals in regard to women's policy and development policy are often contradicted in New York.
In that connection, I am very glad that UNIFEM is now opening an office in Brussels; that will certainly raise the level of the debate between the United Nations and the European Union in this area.
There are some relatively obscure arrangements... (The President cut off the speaker.) (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my many thanks go to Mrs Uca for an excellent report, and at the same time I share the disapproval expressed my many of the Members here regarding the amendments tabled by the Right.
Furthermore, according to the UNFPA, in its state of the world population report last year, there is a global deficit of 60 million women in the world - that is the whole population of the United Kingdom!
The Commission's Communication is an important step towards the EU's introduction of gender issues into the programme of cooperation with partner countries as a major instrument in the eradication of poverty and support for human rights, which includes combating violence against women.
Investing in equal opportunities and freedom means investing in the future, in Europe and in the developing world.
But sexual freedom and reproductive rights guarantee freedom of choice for every woman.
I personally will therefore vote in favour of the report. (RO) There are many good aspects in this report and I will support it, but I will vote against the absurd amendments from the right-wing on reproductive rights.
I am increasingly saddened by the fact that every time we have a debate around these issues, it descends into a very intolerant debate around sexual health and reproductive rights for women.
If our colleagues were against abortion I would respect them putting down a motion against abortion because I think sex selection of male foetuses to them is as much of a concern as female foetuses ... (The President cut off the speaker.) (BG) I would like to commend the rapporteur for the comprehensive report on the gender issue and the Commission for its Communication.
The provision of sexual and reproductive services in the developing countries is not about abortion either; it is about women knowing what options they have and knowing that they have a right to make their own choices.
I think the role of women in development in terms of food production is often ignored.
Mr Lambsdorff, I understand why you find it hard to accept the lack of cohesion in the European Union's position in New York, but I think you need to take that up with the Council rather than the Commission, for it is not something that the Commission can rectify.
They are quite right to say that reproductive health in the developing countries has absolute priority and it is important to fight for it boldly and consistently.
That is an appalling and discriminatory kind of logic! (Applause) I say to Mr Deva that I did not expect anything different from him.
