Zero tolerance regime for unauthorised GMOs and the economic consequences thereof (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Neil Parish, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the zero tolerance regime for unauthorised GMOs and the economic consequences thereof - B6-0151/2008).
Herculex, one of the few approved GM seeds, took 33 months to achieve EU approval.
In the US the average approval time is half that: 15 months.
I would like to remind you of the importance in this respect of the cooperation of Member States in the Standing Committee and in the Council.
The Commission will examine whether it is appropriate and feasible to come up with an individual solution for this specific problem, in full respect of existing legislation.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, yesterday in this House we spoke about the rise in food prices and the effects of that in the European Union and for developing countries.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as its title suggests, this question deals with the economic consequences of the GMO authorisation procedure.
I hope that everyone is aware that consumers have a right... (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I should first like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and this plenary sitting for following up my initiative to debate this topic here this evening.
I also welcome the fact that talks are under way with EFSA to shorten procedures without endangering quality, but has EFSA indicated yet whether or not that is possible?
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, there are three areas in which GMOs may prove dangerous.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President, I would like to start by strongly challenging the assumption that seems to lie behind this oral question.
The worst-case scenario in the report rests on the assumption that Brazil will rapidly commercialise a GM soya bean variety not approved in the EU.
With sanctimonious fervour we ban GMOs in animal feedstuffs, even to the ridiculous point of zero tolerance of any unauthorised GM trace, but simultaneously meat derived from animals reared outside the EU and fed with the very GMOs which we refuse to authorise can be imported freely anywhere within the 27 States.
This is why we need to apply reason in this area.
No other trading block is resisting change in this way. (HU) The time has come for us to have a serious and worthwhile debate on genetic technology in Europe, for up to now we have only heard religious polemics, in many cases only whipping up hysteria.
Thank you for your attention. (PT) I should also like to express the extreme concern that the agricultural sector in the Azores, my region, has about the current situation.
We need to see what implications this debate has for us.
I would like to say that to impose restrictions over imported animal products which are the product of animals fed with GMOs would probably fail to comply with our international commitments.
It is also important to note that the approval process could be significantly shortened if the Commission had greater support from Member States in the comitology process for the authorisation of GMOs.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (EL) The EU's policy on GMOs favours multinationals at the expense of consumers.
