How marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men (debate) The next item on the agenda is the report (2008/2038 (INI)) by Eva-Britt Svensson, on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men.
Therefore I consider that it is important for us here in the Parliament too to give our views on the problem of gender stereotypes and how they affect equality between women and men.
I am also convinced that with increased awareness of the importance of advertising, consumers, both men and women, will start to refuse to buy products which use this kind of advertising.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the EP and the rapporteur, Mrs Svensson, for addressing a very delicate issue on how marketing and advertising affects equality between men and women.
Article 3 of the Audiovisual Media Service Directive contains strong wording on human dignity and non-discrimination in relation to audiovisual advertising.
We should have, in this respect, a very realistic approach.
European marketing and advertising already exercise self-regulation and there is sufficient legislation in the Member States.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I do recognise the problem described by the rapporteur.
You never see them in the adverts.
Of course I cannot name any brands here, but I am thinking of an Italian fashion label that has been breaking taboos for 20 years now, and of other products too.
Finally, if you look at the picture that has been drawn of women in advertising in the past 50 years, I note with satisfaction that women are much cleverer than we think.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, despite the report's many positive aspects in drawing attention to the negative influence of media, marketing and advertising that caricature and objectify human beings, discriminate against them and deprive them of their dignity, I must nevertheless protest at some of its arguments, which are manipulative and aimed at the creation of a modern egalitarian society devoid of ethical models.
As the Commissioner also said, in the education system we must try to show children a path from a very young age, making them aware of both the opportunities and risks that are inherent in advertising.
With regard to the amendments, I would like to remind you that 53 amendments from the different political groups were adopted by the committee, including four amendments tabled by Mrs Herranz García.
There is nothing in the report about any new legislation, either at EU level or in the Member States.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) The fight against stereotypes is one of the six priority areas of the Equality Roadmap for 2006-2010.
This is a matter of principle, the practical impact of which is extremely far-reaching and thorough, since stereotypes create a scandalous situation for women and form a significant barrier to their success - whether it be in their job-hunting, their workplace, their career progression, their participation in decision-making or in balancing their work and private life.
