We cannot now retrospectively alter the agenda without the groups also having the opportunity to discuss it.
The Secretary-General of my Group stated that she would have liked to have had the opportunity to discuss that report, along with other reports, at our group meeting before the part-session.
This Summit, which will mark the end of the Italian six-month Presidency, is an exceptionally important event for us, not only in terms of the importance of the matters to be dealt with, but also because the decisions adopted there will set the course for the future work of the Union on a number of matters of great importance on the European agenda.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that the overall stance of the Italian Presidency remains that which my government has often expressed before this House and in the context of the IGC.
In accordance with that stance, the comprehensive proposal presented reflects our intention to respect the constituent legacy of the Convention, confining ourselves to proposing clarifications or alterations to the Convention’s draft in light of the comments made by the Member States, the European Parliament and the Commission.
I believe I can safely say that many of the Presidency’s proposals have been welcomed with broad appreciation, which has allowed us to bring the positions of Member States closer together with due regard for the overall balance of the Convention’s draft.
In addition to the substantial progress made on a number of specific issues, it has become clear that some persisting divergences on specific provisions will be resolved when an agreement on the Union’s future institutional framework is achieved.
Indeed this is the area in which the greatest disagreement remains, above all as regards the calculation of the qualified majority in the Council and the composition of the Commission.
Detailed analysis of the results of the Conclave reveals the progress achieved on the following points in our proposal package: the insertion of a reference to equality between men and women and to the protection of persons belonging to minority groups in the provision on the Union’s values; the reaffirmation of the primacy of European Union law; the need to make the acts of the European Council subject to jurisdictional control insofar as the European Council is defined in the Constitutional Treaty as a Union institution.
Differing positions persist in many cases between the Member States on the basis of well-known points of divergence.
The following are issues that will require further debate: the persisting divergence between the countries intending not to make concessions as regards abandoning unanimity voting in matters such as foreign policy, taxation and social security and the Member States that consider the phasing-in of qualified-majority voting in those areas a key element of the future Constitutional Treaty; the manifold, and often divergent, requests of Member States for changes to the provisions concerning the budget, the multiannual financial framework, own resources and economic governance.
The Presidency intends to propose further discussions on all these matters in the course of the final meetings of the IGC.
The debate on the institutional framework of the future Union has confirmed that this remains the most sensitive subject in the entire negotiations.
The Conclave was useful for overcoming some points of divergence and, most importantly, for fostering calmer, more constructive dialogue.
The request by some Member States to raise the minimum threshold of national representatives to the European Parliament was received positively, on the condition that the total number of seats does not increase.
The procedures for implementing these solutions could be the subject of a European Council decision rather than being regulated by a special protocol.
The middle road we suggested appears to be the only one which can ensure that a compromise will be reached in the end, although it does leave two major issues still to be resolved: the persistent opposition of some countries to giving the Minister for Foreign Affairs presidency of the General Affairs and External Relations Council, and the call from other Member States not to give the new institutional figure the title ‘Minister’ but the more modest title ‘Representative’, which is a clear retreat&#160;-&#160;and not just a symbolic retreat&#160;-&#160;from the provisions of the Convention’s draft.
The lengthy debate on the composition of the Commission after 2009 saw the renewed proposal of positions and arguments already known.
The proposals on the table will have to be examined in a long-term perspective with a view to the institutional needs of a Union that, in 10 to 15 years’ time, is likely to be even larger and will, therefore, have to be endowed with decision-making abilities that are adequate and easy for the citizens to understand.
The debate on the issue of the calculation of the qualified majority in the Council has made the range of positions in the field even clearer and more distinct: some States ardently defend the Nice system; others consider the transition to double-majority voting indispensable.
Of these, a number of countries would prefer a totally symmetrical double majority, in other words, 50% or 60% both of the Member States and of the Union population.
The IGC ministerial meeting of 8 December 2003 and the bilateral meetings which the Presidency will be stepping up in the coming weeks will therefore have to concentrate, first and foremost, on the institutional issues in order to make the best possible preparation for the final Conference meeting at the level of Heads of State or Government scheduled to open on 12 December 2003.
With due regard for the principle of equal dignity of all Member States&#160;–&#160;also recognised at the Naples Conclaveand rightly so&#160;–&#160;it is necessary that we abandon all particularist behaviour and stop thinking in terms of ‘fair exchange’, where each individual concession is made in an attempt to gain something of equal value.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to focus, albeit briefly, on the issues that will be addressed by the European Council.
As far as the economic issues are concerned, in particular the objective of boosting sustainable economic growth, the European Council will mark the culmination of the long period of work that started with the Thessaloniki European Council and was further developed by the Heads of State or Government at the most recent Summit in October.
Indeed, the December European Council will be called upon to approve definitively the Growth Initiative, already endorsed by the Ecofin Council of 25 November, adopting specific decisions that will be able to make a substantial contribution to improving the competitiveness of the European economic system and to the full development of the Union’s potential for growth by promoting higher levels of investment in physical capital and the development of human capital.
The principal objective in this context will be to create&#160;–&#160;including through the identification of a series of projects on which work can begin in the short space of two to three years&#160;–&#160;a political catalyst that will make it possible to increase sharply the pace of infrastructure creation and the implementation of advanced research projects in order to facilitate the deployment of essential resources from both the European Investment Bank and the private sector.
From a different and more general standpoint, but still in the context of consolidating the cohesion of the internal market and boosting growth, the Italian Presidency also nurtures strong hopes that the European Council will accept the political agreement achieved by the Transport Council on the Commission’s proposal regarding the review of the TENs&#160;–&#160;which, as you will remember, provides the basic structure for the initiatives for the completion of the infrastructure network of the enlarged Europe&#160;–&#160;in consideration, not least, of the recent decisions on the increase in EU subsidies from 10% to 20% for projects on cross-border stretches.
Moving on to issues related to the Lisbon agenda, with particular reference to points concerning structural reforms, to which the European Council next spring will need to devote its energies, I would point out that the Member States of the Union, whose efforts have been unceasing in this area, will now be presented with a major opportunity for open dialogue during the extraordinary meeting of the Trilateral Social Council, which will provide a highly significant opportunity to renew the commitment of the European Union to the implementation of the European Employment Strategy.
The European Council will also be a good opportunity to take stock of the situation as regards a number of important issues connected with the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice, with particular reference to European strategies on immigration, in the light of the recommendations that emerged from the recent Brussels and Thessaloniki Summits held in October and June respectively.
The Heads of State or Government will need, first and foremost, to take note of the agreements reached at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 27 and 28 November on the main elements of a European Border Management Agency, a programme of measures specifically devoted to immigration by sea, and the insertion of biometric data in visas and residence permits.
In spite of the great effort made by the Italian Presidency, which has led to substantial progress in these difficult negotiations, it has not been possible to reach agreement on the directive on minimum standards for asylum procedures nor to break the deadlock that had already developed by the end of the Greek Presidency on the other directive on refugee status and subsidiary protection.
The European Council can only reiterate the political importance of this matter and invite the Council to reach an agreement at least before 1 May 2004, the fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In the framework of the Union’s migratory policy, the European Council will certainly discuss the key issue of the reception and integration of legal immigrants as well, and especially the importance of encouraging inter-faith dialogue as an element of social cohesion, a subject to which the Italian Presidency devoted a Conference of Home Affairs Ministers on 30 and 31 October 2003.
In this connection, I feel I should mention the positive interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, Council and Commission, which should be formalised in the next few days, on the creation of a financial and technical assistance programme for third countries on the subject of asylum, and the introduction of a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating these countries in the fight against illegal immigration, requested by the Thessaloniki European Council.
Lastly, in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the European Council will express its satisfaction at the agreement reached following the Italian Presidency’s tenacious brokerage of the framework decision on combating drug trafficking, an issue that is of particular concern to European public opinion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming European Council in Brussels takes place just a few months before the entry into force of the Accession Treaty.
The Foreign Ministers, in particular, expressed their satisfaction at the high degree of alignment achieved by these countries in the different areas of the ,and we therefore expect the Heads of State or Government to endorse these positive opinions.
The enlargement that will be taking place in 2004 can therefore be increasingly viewed as a complete success, confirming that the decisions taken by the Heads of State or Government at Copenhagen last December were the right ones.
The Commission’s recent strategy document shows without a doubt that Bulgaria and Romania have made considerable progress towards their entry into the Union.
The European Council therefore has a responsibility to facilitate these steps by mapping out in sufficient detail the road that they need to follow.
Precisely in order to facilitate these efforts, however, it will be necessary, in the Presidency’s view, for the Heads of State or Government to provide clear directions on the next legs of the journey, confirming, therefore, the deadlines: 2004 for the conclusion of the negotiations, 2005 for the signing of the Accession Treaties and 2007 for accession to the European Union.
The European Council will also have to provide guidance on the timeframe for drawing up the financial framework for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, in particular by acting promptly on the willingness already displayed by the Commission to present it before the end of January 2004, following the same resource-allocation criteria that were adopted for the accession countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that each one of us in this room has reason to welcome the considerable efforts made by Turkey in the area of institutional reform, and the additional progress it has made in respecting the Copenhagen political criteria.
In the medium term, our goal is still to ensure that Turkey is sufficiently ready for the decision that the European Council will be adopting in a year’s time.
Lastly, as regards Cyprus, the Presidency feels that the Heads of State or Government must reiterate the appeal already addressed to the parties to achieve an agreed solution by the accession date, while pointing out at the same time that a solution to the Cyprus question would be a considerable step towards the achievement of Turkey’s desire to become part of the European Union.
The Heads of State or Government will also be called upon to examine the report on progress in the development of the ESDP with a view to giving the next presidency a detailed mandate on the matter.
For this reason as well, the European Council will particularly welcome the decision to create a European agency dedicated specifically to promoting the development and acquisition of new military capacity.
They are here to participate in the European Parliament North-East Asia Forum meeting which takes place on 4 and 5 December 2003.
Indeed, almost every week brings with it developments and decisions that will have a major impact on our future.
The involvement of trades union and employers is the best guarantee of success for any initiative promoting employment.
The meeting will address two issues which are at the heart of the Lisbon Strategy: our Growth Initiative and the European Employment Strategy.
The stakes will be high at the European Council in Brussels on 12 and 13 December.
In the decisions taken we will see the fruit of the new Convention method, proposed by the European Parliament and the Commission and approved by the Heads of State or Government at the Laeken European Council in December 2001.
The key task for the Intergovernmental Conference is now to decide how the enlarged Union can achieve its goals and increase its decision-making capacity.
Then we have to give a common response to the international challenges related to security, freedom and justice.
Article 3 of the draft Constitution solemnly sets out the Union’s objectives along these lines.
The Convention did not, of course, produce a perfect Constitution to address these tasks.
The Intergovernmental Conference has clearly so far been more occupied with internal disputes between Member States than with creating the right instruments to respond to Europe’s needs and problems.
The only significant progress made so far on the work of the Convention has been the definition of structured cooperation in the field of defence.
Some countries would even like to reintroduce the right of veto in areas where the Convention has already abolished it, in trade policy for instance.
With a choice between these two opposing options, Europe is in danger of being relegated to the sidelines in world affairs, surrounded by other powerful actors.
The key question is whether, in the future, they will find the collective ability to adopt the necessary instruments which any European project will need.
The Convention preserved and improved the balance of powers between the various European Union institutions.
A strong Commission is indispensable for impartial application of the Union’s rules and so the Commission’s powers in key areas such as state-aid control should not be watered down at the last minute.
For its own part, the Commission welcomes the Presidency’s acknowledgement that making a distinction between Commissioners with and without voting powers is too complex and, above all, will not work.
This is the solution that the Commission wants to see in the Constitution.
Lastly, the double-majority voting system proposed by the Convention&#160;&#160;50% of the Member States representing 60% of the population&#160;-&#160;is simple and fair.
Of course, the Commission’s preference remains a system based on 50% of the Member States representing at least 50% of the population.
Under no circumstances should the Intergovernmental Conference decide on a voting system that would make decision-making in the Council even more difficult than under the Nice system.
Remember that the first referendum on the Constitution will be held a mere six months after the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
As regards the substance, the Council reached overall agreement on deficit reduction plans, which, moreover, are in line with those proposed by the two countries concerned.
The Council therefore accepted the commitments given by Germany and France that they would consolidate their 2005 budgets.
The usefulness and value of the Treaty and the Pact depend on the certainty of the rules to which we all&#160;–&#160;Commission, Parliament, Council and Member States&#160;–&#160;must adhere.
For our part, we shall continue to discharge our duty by applying the Treaty and the rules of the Pact.
Furthermore, budgetary discipline and stability are essential to Economic and Monetary Union.
Now that the single currency is a practical reality, the markets and all the citizens need to be able to rely on proper economic governance, for which we need a genuine economic policy.
We have to embark on a new phase of consolidating and managing our achievements and fitting them to the new situation, but always in a disciplined manner and, above all, always treating everybody equally.
We must restore the credibility of our instruments of economic governance and of the rule of law now that we are in the midst of a debate on our new Constitution.
This line of action proposed by the Commission was approved by the European Council.
We must have an in-depth debate on fiscal policy in the wider framework of the general monitoring and coordination of economic policy.
Above all, we need to link budgetary policy more closely to the more general objective of boosting growth potential without jeopardising the long-term sustainability of public finances.
To this end, we should be more proactive in using the broad economic policy guidelines and the Stability and Growth Pact together as instruments to coordinate economic policies in a way that will secure the smooth functioning of Economic and Monetary Union and ensure that we achieve the Lisbon objectives.
We need, therefore, to strike a new balance between these two instruments in order to preserve budgetary discipline while, at the same time, stimulating growth.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the few days left before the Brussels European Council, we must act with determination and optimism if we are to achieve the major goals we have set ourselves.
I am confident that we shall pass on to future generations a Union that is not only larger and more influential but also more coherent, more democratic and closer to the European citizens.
We must not settle for less at this great, historic time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, let me start by thanking the Italian Presidency of the Council for having so far kept its promise to stick as closely as possible to the Convention’s draft.
It must be apparent to us that what has happened with the Stability Pact has lost us credibility in some areas, with an effect on the relations between smaller and larger states in these negotiations and, as regards two states, it has certainly not led them to adopt a more conciliatory negotiating position.
Perhaps I may start by saying something that I think is important, namely that these negotiations must not interfere with the stability and strength of the European Central Bank, and that the attempts in various quarters to do so must be nipped in the bud.
I just hope that the Foreign Minister can gain acceptance in the same way, and I think it extraordinarily important from the point of view of the Commission and of Parliament that the Foreign Minister should be a full member of the Commission, with all that follows from that, although there is no doubting that he will have particular duties of loyalty to the Council, and the clarification that the Italian Presidency of the Council has provided in this regard is also important.
If I am reading Naples the right way, it also seems to be important that the President of the European Council should not have the power to intervene in the General Council and in what it does.
This is part of the institutional balance – President of the Commission, General Council and European Council – and we have accepted the idea of a President of the European Council only if he has no influence over the rest of what the Council does and over the lawmaking process.
The second point I would like to address is this: if Parliament is to lose out as a result of changes to budgetary law, then I regard that as the breaking point.
Although I have gone over time, I would like to say that approval of the Budget is Parliament’s prerogative.
Moving on to the issues under discussion today, I would like to draw the Council and the Italian Presidency’s attention to the responsibilities of this Intergovernmental Conference, which is being held after the Union has opened its doors to democracy.
We cannot now accept last-minute deals and haggling that are not only against Parliament, but also against democracy and transparency.
On the subject of the Commission’s composition, I would like to say that, in principle, the majority in my group feels a flexible solution is required.
We have noted the Italian Presidency’s proposal regarding qualified majority voting, which is based on a double majority of citizens and States as in Article 1 of the Constitution.
The irony of our leaders making new rules for the European Union only days after breaking the Stability Pact will not be lost on our citizens.
My group regrets that the tide of reform will not now rise to the high water mark set by the Convention.
No viable parliamentary democracy can exist without the power of the purse.
The obduracy of finance ministers on this matter is a battle pitting raw politics against the principle of reform.
Countries have borders, but principles do not.
For two years the 660 men and boys in Camp Delta have been denied the rights of prisoners of war or of civilian criminals.
I call upon this House to demand of the European Council an unequivocal statement of Europe's dismay, and I call upon our President to convey that message.
The Liberal Group adds its support to calls for the European Parliament and for the Council to submit an Amicus Brief to the US Supreme Court on behalf of the detainees.
Two of our greatest enemies in the fight against terror are the fear that makes us cheapen our freedoms and the power that makes us cynical of them.
I fully agree with the comments that my fellow Member made about the detainees in Guantanamo Bay, and my group will also be appealing to the Presidency to stand firm on this matter at the next Council meeting.
I should also like to call for the Council meeting to express its support for the Geneva Initiative for peace in the Middle East, under which a number of courageous Palestinians and Israelis have now signed an agreement that may succeed in breaking down walls.
Returning to the European Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference, when the Convention chose to draw up a whole treaty, that is what it was: a choice.
Laeken, of course, primarily called for answers to a number of different problems, and, since the Convention nevertheless chose to draw up a single, unified treaty, I also think that it has been party to risking the method of working somewhat.
Above all, however, it baffles me how we can sit in this House in a parliamentary assembly – an elected assembly – discussing a constitution which will possibly not be put to the vote, on which our citizens are not permitted to take a position, and to which European citizens are not given the opportunity to give their assent or dissent.
Democracy also comprises the possibility for dialogue with the citizens in the process.
That will, however, be quite some task, for example on the subject of economic policy.
We do not care for this policy, and I also hope, therefore, that the Council meeting will find a solution to this problem, so that Germany is able to solve its economic problems and we do not just have to follow rigid requirements. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, the Intergovernmental Conference is not going well.
I believe that one of the great capacities of politicians who want to say ‘yes’ is having the courage, when it comes down to it, to say ‘no’ or to refuse to sign.
In fact, even the majority in this Parliament, against a minority, was won over in Nice and said ‘yes’ to Nice, while we said that Nice would make enlargement impossible or that it would be impossible for Europe to function.
Therefore, if you revise the Convention’s draft Constitution, if you do not want to talk about the legislative council any more, if you do not want to talk about institutional equality with regard to the budget and to Parliament’s right, if you are unwilling to come up with the double majority, if you want to call into question the definition of the content of Europe as defined in the first part of the Convention’s text, the most European of Europeans will fight against this text.
You must talk to my grandmother and to my grandfather and to anyone else.
As far as I am concerned, signing before doing this would be a crime against Europe.
That is what I am afraid of and that is why I say to you that you must trust in Europe and must not sacrifice it to a signature of which you will be ashamed, just as you have been ashamed of Nice.
That, after all, is why you launched the Convention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe it is fair to say that the meeting of the European Union Foreign Ministers in Naples last weekend was a very productive one.
I say this because now the European Union governments are discussing what I would describe as the bottom-line issues relating to areas of concern with regard to the likely provisions of the new European Union Treaty.
The Italian Government needs to be commended for accelerating the pace of these negotiations, and the holding of this recent meeting in Naples was a very timely one.
I believe, in the light of the spirit of cooperation and determination that prevails at this moment, that an agreement can be reached at the forthcoming meeting of the heads of the European Union governments.
Equally, there are different concerns from the perspectives of different Member State governments within the Union.
It is clear that the likely direction of the decision-making process within the Parliament and within the European Council is going to be based on codecision and majority voting procedures.
I do not believe that the European Union should be given powers to raise taxes by means of a procedure of qualified majority voting.
Equally, I believe that the qualified majority voting procedure should not apply to decisions concerning the operation of legal systems within the European Union.
The federalists in this House are clapping their hands with glee, as they themselves will obtain more influence.
Instead, they should be opposing the fact that national parliaments are ceding much more power than the European Parliament is gaining.
The electorate and the elected representatives will be the losers.
The President of the EU, the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs, the President of the Commission and his/her vice-president will all be appointed by an alliance of 17 out of 25 Heads of State or Government.
When politicians lose the confidence of the people in their own country, they can have their rejected policies embalmed for five years.
However, this policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this lack of policy on the part of our, or your, Europe, is condemning tens of thousands of people to death in the Middle East and jeopardising the region’s fate and future.
It is now necessary, and this is our specific proposal as radical members of the Bonino List, in compliance with international law and the rules of war, that experts be consulted as a matter of urgency.
On 8 September 1943, when the Italian army disintegrated overnight like Saddam Hussein’s army, Italy could have been liberated in two months.
It took them six months just to set up the Republic of Salò.
Consequently, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in my view, Italy, and now Europe, must take the initiative of convening a special Council meeting for the purpose of proposing a peace process to the UN, the United States and the international community.
The image of Srebrenica symbolises our failure to act.
Indeed, let us ward off illness, but let us not continue to condemn to death entire populations of the world in the name of freedom and legality. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate is becoming very emotional, but my comments are not in that vein.
Unlike a previous speaker, however, I do feel that we have to complete our work by 13 December.
In my view, the situation is cut and dried: we are all familiar with the solutions that have been put forward, we know what alternatives are available, and I think we now have to give a political signal by approving the Constitution on 13 December.
I therefore urge you to persevere, and call on the national governments to demonstrate pride in the European Constitution, to forget national interests and consider that what we need at the present time is a Constitution for a Union of both States and citizens, which will allow us to work together in the exciting period the coming years represent.
Keep on working towards completion on 13 December. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the very outset, I would like to give the Italian Council Presidency credit for its intensive efforts, in the Intergovernmental Conference negotiations, to keep as close as possible to what the Convention produced and also to offer solutions that go beyond that.
Let me give two examples: the explicit reference to equal opportunities for women and men as being among the values of the European Union was not of the Convention’s doing.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we all see this as a quite crucial point, and I would ask the Council Presidency to see it in that light too.
As regards Parliament’s budgetary rights, both in medium-term financial planning and in the annual Budget, we cannot and will not accept less than what we have already.
I am glad that you are numbered among them, as also is the Presidency of the Council.
The danger of a repeat performance of Nice in Brussels on 13 December has become greater since Naples.
Now the Convention has come up with a proposal.
If there are more leftovers from any decision taken on 13 December, then the European public as a whole will see that as a failure on the part of the European Union’s Heads of State or Government.
The Presidents of the Council and of the Commission should be absolutely clear that the IGC cannot take our consent for granted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, of course the workers, the peoples of our countries, do not expect the Council summit to talk to them about the reality they experience on a daily basis as the result of the policy of the centre right or centre left governments of the European Union.
They experience on the ground the increase in unemployment, shrinking incomes, the campaign against and even the abolition of the eight-hour day and their other rights as a result of the famous Lisbon agenda, the application of which is to be assessed by the Council.
They know that all this is being promoted in the name of competitiveness and productivity, with the sole objective of increasing the profits of big business in the European Union.
This is also the more general objective of the constant reduction in labour costs, even where we have increased rates of growth, such as in Greece, where the workers are the most productive and the worst paid in the European Union.
So the European Council in Brussels will not only not change these political orientations, but will also take measures to reinforce and legally safeguard them.
Let me now turn to the Intergovernmental Conference.
While the governments are turning the Convention draft inside out, we in this House have gone back to drafting resolutions, repeating ourselves, protesting against the eternal sameness of things, but to no avail, with neither a response nor even a serious debate to show for it.
The governments think they know what our response is going to be; we gave it to them after the partial failure of Amsterdam.
We should make it plain to the governments that it is not they who are the masters of the treaties, but the parliaments and the people they represent, and that it is these who can bring this constitution down.
I cannot imagine that the dignity of any single Member State demands that the principles of the separation of the powers and of the public nature of lawmaking be violated, or that the legislative council – the Convention’s big idea for greater democracy – be done away with.
We are offered negotiations only when democracy and the rights of Parliament are disputed.
Naples represents a very positive step in the development of the Intergovernmental Conference, on which I heartily congratulate the Italian Presidency, and which has given rise to positive expectations in many areas.
Firstly, the principle of the primacy of Community law must be clarified and in a way that does not destroy the very principle of national sovereignty.
Next, there is no need to use this too ‘forward-looking’ vocabulary, including ‘minister’ or the word ‘constitution’ itself.
I wish to say a few words on the issue of qualified majority voting, which Spain and Poland appear to see as an obstacle: we are in favour of parity (60% plus 60%).
Europe needs more medium-sized countries, not more countries obsessed with the idea that they are large.
Mr President, Parliament, which, this week, has the task of encouraging the Member States to reach an agreement that will, at last, give Europe its first constitutional charter, cannot but agree with the position adopted by the Presidency.
President Cox has rightly insisted on the need to act effectively with due haste.
We fully support his comments and share his sentiments completely, but we do not identify with the comments of those pessimists who appear to want to throw in the towel at the sight of any difficulty.
Finally, as a member of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I call on the Intergovernmental Conference once again to insert in the preamble an explicit reference to Europe’s Judaeo-Christian roots.
Never before though has a private agreement been given such prominence by the media, never before has an agreement called forth such high hopes, and never before has an agreement been so perfectly in line with European foreign policy, so I hope that the Council will indeed turn its attention to this Geneva initiative and will indicate our support for it even more strongly than Secretary of State Colin Powell – thank God! – has done, because, although it could be a European initiative, it is even more valuable by reason of its originating from the region itself, from men and women who know what continued suffering would be like, and without whom there would be no accord.
I rarely concern myself with budgetary matters, but, whatever our nationality or whatever the social or political grouping to which we belong, all of us in this House are aware of the importance of every parliament’s rights when it comes to drawing up budgets, and I just want to support you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
This is what I ask you to accept: no curtailments, at any rate not of the rights of this House, Europe’s freely elected and democratic institution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Europe still rates opportunism more highly than it does formal agreements.
French and German flouting of the rules of the Stability Pact has delivered a serious blow to the confidence of the Dutch people in the European Union.
It is important that discussion of the Stability Pact should not be avoided, particularly in the light of the referendums about the Constitution.
We set great store by the Convention's proposals concerning the voting procedure in the Council and Parliament's full budgetary rights.
If legitimacy is to be enhanced, then they must be directly elected by the European Parliament, without any nominations by the European Council.
However, only when in Europe, agreements are more important than political opportunism will public confidence have a real chance of growing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to address a theme raised by the President-in-Office of the Council which nobody else has yet spoken about but which, for more than one person in this House, is of great moment and significance.
Malta will have five.
I do not object at all to Malta having five Members: it is a fine thing for small countries to have proper representation.
We must not forget, however, that the principle of degressive proportionality has a deep justification.
Degressive proportionality says that every state in this Union must be represented in this House by a sufficient number of MEPs so as fully to express the political diversity of that state.
Rightly, therefore, even the 400 000 citizens of Malta should have at least five Members, but perhaps no more.
These are significant parts in the Union.
If you cut their representation you deny them the degressive proportionality on which you rightly insist for countries such as Malta or Cyprus.
The upshot of that is that it will be impossible for me, as a strong supporter of this idea of a European Constitution, to persuade my political colleagues in Scotland to back ratification of the text because I now know that on that point it will not be changed.
We believe it significantly alters the balance of power between Member States and the European Union institutions.
We are opposed to the passerelle clauses which jeopardise our veto rights over taxation, social security and, most worryingly, CFSP, which includes security and defence.
Lastly, we are adamant that such major constitutional changes require a full public debate in all the Member States.
With particular reference to my country, I call upon Prime Minister Blair to allow the British people a say through a referendum on the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference. &#160;&#160; Mr President, could I issue you with a special invitation?
If, over the Christmas holidays, you are in the wonderful city of Bolton, please come and join me in a visit to my local pub because you will surprised to discover that most people there are not talking about qualified majority voting, the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Intergovernmental Conference.
I mention that point not to denigrate the discussions on the Constitution, which are important but, rather, to emphasise that the endless institutional debate that we have does not bring us closer to the electorate because it does not address the issues which voters regard as very important.
We must stop that institutional debate, because it is vital for the political legitimacy of the EU that we come to an agreement in this IGC quickly but, more importantly, that we come to an agreement that will stick.
We must not lose sight of Romania and Bulgaria, or their objective of joining in 2007.
Crime is important to our citizens and we need more Member States to actually ratify that.
Member States are also largely responsible for the fact that the European Court of Auditors, in its a yearly reports, tells us that it cannot trace all the accounts because of the way Member States spend the money.
We need to demand much more of Member States.
Indeed it is so mean, that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market advises that the European Parliament should seek the annulment of this text in the European Court on grounds of a breach of the family rights provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights.
As co-rapporteur on this topic, I am helping to prepare a submission from this Parliament to the Supreme Court, but only the Council can make representations on behalf of the EU as a whole.
Even if we get Europeans back from Guantanamo Bay, we must speak up for the rest of the 650 detainees.
Secondly, all the Member States should be represented in the Commission.
In Greece, in particular, it would make a very bad impression if the smaller countries were not represented.
Mr Prodi, there is the development initiative to incorporate the programme on priority trans-European networks, Quick Start, which is to be discussed.
We are joint legislators as far as the trans-European networks are concerned and we shall claim our rights until the end.
So there must be the political will on the part both of the Member States and the European Commission, so that, with the public and private sectors working together, we can proceed as quickly as possible in this direction. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by asking you to forgive me for arriving late.
Speaking on behalf of my group, but also of the German Social Democrats in particular, I want to thank our own government and the Italian Presidency of the Council.
Mr Antonione, my expression of gratitude to the Italian Presidency of the Council may perhaps be rather surprising, but it is very emphatic, as I get the impression that the Italian Presidency of the Council is making a respectable effort when it comes to defending the outcome of the Convention and to keep in check a number of foolish courses of action that are evidently dominating the Intergovernmental Conference.
I know that my own government, that of the Federal Republic of Germany is currently, in the Intergovernmental Conference, making valiant attempts to talk certain Member States’ governments out of their belief that they do not have to take on board any of the progressive things that the Convention has decided on for Europe and to lead them into the way of compromise.
The first has to do with this House’s budgetary rights.
It would appear to be the case that a number of finance ministers have persuaded their governmental colleagues – but not, it is to be hoped, the Heads of Government – to limit unanimity on the Financial Perspective and to change over to mere consultation rather than approval, thereby both restricting a right of the European Parliament and also qualifying Parliament’s right to give final approval in the Budget procedure – which is actually the most powerful right that this House possesses in the Budget procedure – by making it a right shared between the Council and Parliament.
It would appear that some are determined, as part of the constitution-framing process, to have this core right of the European Parliament in their sights.
This leads me to mention a second point.
Whatever compromise eventually emerges, this House must not lose sight of the fact that, in the next Parliament, there will be 732 MEPs, and that is quite a lot to start with.
It is quite possible that, between 2007 and 2009, the number of MEPs in this House will increase to 800.
A proposal for a European Constitution was put forward that, although deficient in a number of ways, is, in very general terms, a very good compromise.
I think that Altiero Spinelli must have been smiling from beyond the grave when the proposal was put forward in June 2003.
I would therefore ask you please to be quiet. &#160;&#160; – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is Parliament’s last opportunity to express its mind in the form of a resolution before the Intergovernmental Conference on a new European constitutional treaty, which we hope will complete its work before the end of December.
One hopes that all the politicians want to bring the work to completion and to find a compromise with which all parties can live, including on the composition of the Commission, with each Member State having one Commissioner who is entitled to vote.
The dual majorities – 15 States, 60% of the population – appear sensible, and I agree with those Members who say that Parliament’s original budgetary rights are important and must not be curtailed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am concerned about the ungodly practices of our governments, who have first concluded a deal with the European Parliament and the national parliaments – known as the positively rated draft Constitution – and then proceed to carry on as they please, with business as usual, and repeat the very practices that caused Nice to fail.
The Constitution offers us more democracy and enables us to achieve more concrete results in areas that matter in Europe.
That will have an effect on all referendums here in Europe.
Europe needs the Constitution, because on 1 May, ten new countries will be joining, and they should not join without any clear rules.
But beware: less democracy and fewer rights for Parliament means that Parliament will be obstructive.
The Heads of Government should also push out the boat this year, and give us a Constitution that is worthy of the European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the run-up to the meeting of the Foreign Ministers in Naples, pessimism about the likely outcome was evident.
Credit must therefore be accorded to the Italian presidency for the significant progress that it made on very sensitive issues.
In particular, I welcome the agreement that was reached on structured cooperation on defence and the positive signals emerging relating to the creation of an EU Foreign Minister and one Commissioner with full voting rights per Member State, and also the budgetary powers of Parliament.
Despite this progress, much work needs to be done.
As the President of the Council will have responsibilities in the field of CFSP, this could conflict with the role of Foreign Minister and could cause confusion as to who authoritatively speaks for the EU in this field.
The draft Constitution represents a bottom line compromise.
Agreement at the Intergovernmental Conference is therefore not solely a matter for Member State governments.
If the outcome of the IGC is to be ratified successfully it must also secure the consent of other institutions such as the European Parliament, the European Commission and members of national parliaments.
The Italian presidency would ignore this reality at its peril. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is quite clear from discussions that everyone wants to finish in December.
The problem is that everyone wants to make their concessions at the last possible minute - and preferably not at all.
Poland, Spain and some other countries, however, are insisting on returning to the opaque Nice formula, which is neither very fair nor very logical.
But how can we compromise, how can we find a way out between two radically different solutions?
I am sure they would not do this very often, but it would allow them now to save face and go home with an acceptable solution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, although we are talking about the constitution as a means of making the European Union transparent, comprehensible and more democratic, I see a danger in that the same Council that is to make a decision on the constitution is, when it comes to a decision on the Trans-European Networks, breaking the law as it currently stands and trampling Parliament’s rights underfoot.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the present Treaties state that decisions on the Trans-European Networks, including the priority list – perhaps the President-in-Office of the Council would be so kind as to listen to me, and the honourable gentleman could perhaps move to one side – according to the present Treaties, the revision of the Trans-European Networks is subject to codecision by the Council and Parliament and is not within the decision-making competence of the European Council.
If, though, the Brussels European Council, in the course of revising the Trans-European Networks were to make decisions on the list of actual priority transport projects that had the effect that practically all the funds for the next few years were spent, then that would be a flagrant violation of Parliament’s right to share equally with the Council in decisions concerning the Trans-European Networks and their revision.
I also appeal to the President of the Commission: it would be devastating if you, Mr President of the Commission, having made such a clear statement on democratic and parliamentary rights, were, at the Council, to so tangibly to ally yourself with a Council which defines the priority projects in such a way that the European Parliament’s rights of codecision are practically nullified.
Let us see to it that this European Council does not take back the rights of codecision on Trans-European Networks that Parliament already possesses.
We want more rights; we want a democratic and more transparent Europe.
I hope, Mr President-in-Office, that you can provide us with them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much support the joint resolution which my group has signed up to in relation to the Summit and the Social Forum.
The important thing is that once again it seeks to strike the essential balance that was established at Lisbon: the balanced policy mix combining economic, social and employment policies in an overall framework of sustainable development.
There is one element in the resolution that causes me some concern: the second part of paragraph 10.
The first part of paragraph 10 which we support makes that absolutely clear.
For example, in a debate on the revision of the working time directive last week in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the point was made very forcibly by Liberal Members that we need a full business impact assessment.
I make the point in reply that what we need is a true cost-benefit assessment that takes account of all the costs and benefits.
In relation to paragraph 9 of the resolution, which refers to opening up the market in postal and passenger services, it is important that a true cost-benefit assessment is applied there too.
Finally, I would like to point out that in fact the Treaties are very clear.
It is good that it takes place already, but we should not try to narrow it in order to needlessly block much-needed social and employment proposals that will help maintain that overall policy balance established at Lisbon. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why I rise to speak on this point is that the experience of the last few weeks in connection with the handling of the Stability and Growth Pact, that is to say of European law, have made clear how important it is that the Intergovernmental Conference should still include price stability in the list of the EU’s objectives in the European constitution.
We have talked about how the Constitution must make Europe more transparent and more democratic and bring it closer to the people, which is what it is meant to do.
The Constitution is the outward expression of strengthened Community institutions, and I ask you to counteract all the attempts made by groupings within the Council to hand back Europe to the nation states. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I really am very upset that in the Intergovernmental Conference, we have what I would regard as a lamentable failure of political leadership - a retreat into national chauvinism - at a time when we need a democratic, effective, power-sharing Europe.
Neutralising that text in the areas of common foreign and security policy, defence cooperation and social policy, stripping out qualified majority voting in relation to these areas and, worst of all, stripping this Parliament of its budgetary prerogatives, is a recipe for defeat.
It is a recipe for defeat for the outcome of the IGC, but it is also a recipe for the defeat of Europe.
I would appeal to the IGC to listen to this Parliament, to the Convention and the 200 parliamentarians - from all sides of the political spectrum, both in government and in opposition right across Europe who produced the Convention document.
It is disrespectful of the rights of the citizens of Europe and for the dignity of the people of Europe.
As regards the Italian Presidency, and thus the European Union, I must say that we have made known to the US authorities at every possible opportunity – on the most recent occasion directly to Colin Powell during the meeting held in Brussels – the concerns of the European Union and of the general public regarding this matter which undoubtedly provides us with food for thought and is a cause of concern.
I must also point out that, at the joint press conference, certain journalists put the question to Colin Powell too, who gave a public undertaking to provide a response and to examine the matter, that is to provide a response to the specific concerns raised.
On the other hand, as regards the discussion concerning the work of the Intergovernmental Conference, I take this opportunity, which will be the last opportunity for me as representative of the current Presidency of the European Union to address Parliament, to thank the House, to thank all of you for the contribution you have made to the work and the endeavours of the Italian Presidency, a fundamental contribution, containing, of course, a great deal of criticism and many suggestions, but also, I acknowledge, many appreciative comments, which always give much pleasure and help to lighten the sometimes heavy burdens of an overfull schedule we have to bear on some occasions.
I am still optimistic and must say that, in the light of the debate held in Naples and today’s meeting, I believe that we can look to 12 and 13 December with confidence based on the fact that there are signs that some sort of positive solution can be achieved.
As regards individual points, it is difficult for me to go into detail now, but I should like to take up some general points: first, I confirm that we will seek to maintain the greatest possible consistency with the Convention’s text, which, for us, is the reference point.
The result is clearly a very important document that we are seeking to improve upon but which, as far as we are concerned, is the guiding point of reference for obtaining the final outcome.
I believe it is important for the Commission President to raise these matters – even if they are not a current problem – since they constitute a problem which concerns all of us.
There is no point in continually running away from problems because, if we do so, we will never succeed in resolving them. &#160;&#160; To conclude the debate, I have received 6 motions for resolutions on preparations for the European Council and 7 motions for resolutions on the work of the Intergovernmental Conference in accordance with Rule 37(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
In other words, the countries, such as Spain or Poland, that are being accused today of slowing the progress of the IGC with regard to the Convention by defending their national interests are in actual fact defending the general interest of Europe, which is to keep free nations and national democracies alive.
With regard to the two major topics of debate that will be discussed once again at the next Council in Brussels – the composition of the Commission and the qualified majority in the Council – we reiterate our unchanging proposal: the key aspect is to recognise a national right of popular opposition, which each population could exercise formally against a European decision.
Indicative of this trend is the compromise reached between France, Germany and the United Kingdom, under the auspices of the USA, on the militarisation of the European Union, cementing its institutional bases as a more or less autonomous pillar of NATO.
Allow me to begin by going over the events which led up to the Eurogroup and Ecofin meeting of 24 and 25 November.
During the first half of 2003, at the Commission’s proposal, the Council sent two recommendations in respect of excessive deficits to Germany and France on 21 January and 3 June respectively, calling for the deficits to be reduced below the reference threshold of 3% by the end of 2004.
In the second half of 2003, between October and November, the Commission fully and formally acknowledged this new situation and accordingly proposed two new recommendations seeking to defer the deficit reduction to below 3% until 2005.
On this basis, both Germany and France took measures to incorporate the substance of the recommendations.
As regards Germany, the recommendations have been directly incorporated into the budgetary legislation: for 2004 provision has been made for a structural adjustment of 0.6% of GDP and for 2005 an adjustment of 0.5%, that is to say 1.1% of GDP in total, which is close to that initially requested by the Commission, without prejudice to the reduction below 3% in 2005.
The Commission proposed the two recommendations pursuant to Article 104(9) on the basis that Germany and France had persistently failed to put into practice the Council’s recommendations.
Germany and France, whilst accepting the substance of the recommendations, for political reasons requested a different format, that is to say that a second series of recommendations be reformulated pursuant to Article 104(7).
The Council’s Legal Service, when consulted on the matter, said that the Commission could also have taken – and I emphasise the word ‘also’ – this second route.
The contents of the statement may be summarised as follows: stability and growth are the fundamental objectives of European economic policy.
The Pact constitutes an essential means of implementing that policy.
The Pact can be implemented by adapting budgetary discipline in an even more rational manner to positive or negative economic cycles and by encouraging structural reforms aimed at developing growth potential.
In these terms, the letter and the spirit of the Pact are not dead; quite the opposite, we have worked in the past, are working now and will continue to work within the framework of the Pact and with the Commission’s support in a cooperative and consensual manner.
Six months ago, at the start of this six-month presidency, we presented an Action Plan for Growth to this House.
The difficulties stem from the fact that Germany and France are experiencing serious tax problems which can be summarised as follows: excessive deficits, not only due to cyclical factors; the high deficits could prove harmful in the longer term because they threaten the sustainability of public financing by triggering increased debt levels; in addition, there are negative repercussions for potential growth due to the change in economic prospects.
Against this backdrop and with a view to both countries reducing their deficits, applying the rules laid down in the Treaty, the Council first sent a series of recommendations to Germany and France at the start of the year asking them to adopt measures designed to correct the excessive deficit levels by the end of 2004 at the latest.
In the second half of this year, however, it became clear that the measures adopted by the two countries would not be enough to correct the high deficits in 2004.
As you know, a small number of Member States rejected the Commission’s proposals in the Council, and in an unprecedented move, a majority agreement was reached outside the scope of the Treaty.
We feel that a rules-based system is the only way to ensure that commitments are respected and to guarantee equal treatment for all Member States.
It could become harder to apply the convergence criteria strictly in the new Member States, given that the euro-zone countries have been allowed to maintain deficits of over 3% for several years running and the procedures laid down in the Treaty and the Pact have not been applied.
The Court of Justice will probably have to clarify whether Member States’ governments have the power to create new procedures which effectively replace existing Community structures established in the Treaty for certain aspects of economic policy.
Whatever happens, the Commission will continue to apply the Treaty and the provisions of the Pact.
This will allow all Member States to be treated equally and will guarantee healthy public finances in Europe.
At the same time, we need to strengthen the economic governance of the Union with a view to ensuring that the single market and single currency work well together.
We think that the decisions taken by Ecofin prove that the real problem is the weakness of the current system of economic governance at European level.
In line with the Communication of November 2002 on strengthening the coordination of budgetary policies, it seems we need to assess how to combine better discipline and flexibility to ensure greater compliance with the rules.
This means placing the debate on budgetary policy higher on the agenda within the context of coordinating economic policies, with a more prominent role for the economic policy guidelines and the implementation of those guidelines to ensure that the Economic and Monetary Union works well and that the Lisbon objectives are achieved.
Parliament’s active involvement will be essential to this process. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Solbes, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions taken by the Ecofin Council on 25 November 2003 meant that it was not a good day for Europe.
It was not a good day for European law.
It was not a good day for relations between the smaller countries and the larger ones, and it was not a good day for the forthcoming enlargement.
We do not believe that the Stability and Growth Pact is dead; it would be wrong to say that it were, for that would enable all those who break it to evade responsibility, both now and in the future.
Losing can sometimes be an honourable thing, but you have won your case.
We have now heard one finance minister in particular coming out with preposterous arguments to justify why this deficit is necessary right now in order for us to achieve growth.
We therefore demand sustainability not only of a moderate finance and budget policy, but also in environment policy, and these things all belong together.
Such a policy also damages relations between the countries within the European Union.
I am a very frequent visitor to the candidate countries and often speak with our counterparts in their parliaments and governments.
In Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, in Hungary, in Slovenia – the situation is different in Malta and Cyprus – they are asking us how it can be demanded of them, the Central Europeans who want to join the European Union, that they should pursue a policy of moderation in their budgets and work hard at reform when certain countries in the European Union give them such a bad example.
That is a bad, indeed a terrible sign, not only in terms of economic policy but also more generally speaking, and my advice is that we, together, get back on the path of virtue, for it is not acceptable for some larger countries to do things that are not permitted to the smaller ones.
This also has to do with European psychology and with the dignity of states, and so there must be no repetition of what happened on 25 November.
I hope this is the last time that our group will be obliged to criticise this sort of action in such forthright terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to express our deep concern about the current crisis relating to the Stability and Growth Pact.
Mr Tremonti, as a respected legal expert, you must acknowledge that the rules cannot be ignored in this way.
These are factors which need to be taken seriously and now is the time to raise these issues.
That is why my Group welcomes the stand taken by Commissioner Solbes and the Commission's intentions to make proposals to reshape the rules.
The problem is not the 3% deficit limit; the problem is the failure of countries to consolidate their budgets in terms of growth.
My surprise at hearing the leader of the Socialist Group in this House agree with us is matched only by my delight at his conversion.
The revised rules should provide sticks and carrots to ensure that we take advantage of periods of economic growth to run budgets in balance or in surplus and reduce national debt.
Countries which operate a responsible policy in the good times could benefit from more flexibility in bad times to let borrowing take the strain.
These rules should provide for early action against countries which do not control their deficits in periods of growth, to force them to take corrective measures.
This has been a bad week for the rule of law in the European Union.
Some governments make a show of virtue in contrast to the large states that are deemed to be guilty.
There are therefore several good reasons for flexibility in the Pact.
It does not take account of the cycle, it maintains divisions, it seeks to impose penalties without offering encouragement, and it is incapable of responding to the nagging problem of the very poor potential for growth in Europe.
The Pact is not dead, as proved by the commitments made by France and Germany for 2005.
Solidarity and greater participation are required to build an economic policy.
In this respect, I believe that the interactive dialogue between the national parliaments and the European Parliament, as well as the consultation of civil societies, are vital elements.
As far as content is concerned, we need both rules and acts.
We do not reject the principle of a pact for rules that seek to combine stability and growth.
France and Germany are right to call for the tax harmonisation that a number of other states refuse to allow them.
These rules must guarantee too the capacity to finance projects considered to be in the general interest.
You can therefore expect an increase in tensions, to which our debates today are only a prelude. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Stability Pact is dead.
It could be regretted that it was destroyed by the European Council, in relation to the specific difficulties of two large countries, thus violating the credibility of the institutions based on a system of rules accepted by all.
However, as far as its form is concerned, this Pact has always been the subject of an intergovernmental agreement rather than control by our Parliament, the only representative of the sovereignty of the people of Europe.
In the current situation, it aggravates the recessions by penalising the countries that are seeking to support the actual demand on the Union’s internal market, especially in the large countries with a particular responsibility from this point of view.
From a structural point of view, a genuine Stability Pact should shelter future investments and in particular the enormous investments required to respect the Kyoto criteria.
Indeed, only an intelligent Constitution will merit the approval and respect of the citizens of Europe.
From this point of view, it seems to me that we are doing exactly what is needed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, why should we conclude a new treaty in Europe if we refuse to adhere to existing agreements?
In my country at least, many people are asking these questions.
I am also reminded of this by certain clauses of the report of the Euro Group and Ecofin Council's meeting.
In that report, Commissioner Solbes indicates that the Commission has given France and Germany recommendations with comparable content, which means that these countries are on an equal footing.
The wrong decisions can seriously damage the procedure.
This issue concerns the equal treatment of large and small Member States.
Commissioner Solbes goes on to say that if the Commission's recommendations are not followed, there is a considerable risk of France and Germany remaining above the 3% mark even in 2005.
The Commission has already been extremely flexible.
As the Guardian of the Treaty, the Commission has no choice but to follow the route it has now proposed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Ecofin Council of 25 November did not violate the Treaty when it suspended the sanction procedure for excessive deficits against France and Germany.
As far as France is concerned, it violated its Constitution in 1997 when, in spite of our warnings, it adopted a stupid Stability Pact that is now coming back to haunt it and that it is forced to violate in turn, creating a conflict with its partners.
I do not wish to blame the Italian Presidency, but, Mr&#160;Tremonti, the decision by Ecofin is a real botch job.
Because the European Union, Mr President, is a community of values and a community of law, and legal rules – the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact are legal rules – only mean something if there is an obligation to comply with them, and that compliance must be demanded equally from the small and the large countries.
And what is worse, this decision comes at a very bad time, precisely on the eve of the work of the Intergovernmental Conference which is going to discuss the European Constitution.
It is a dreadful move to give the public the impression that in the Union some states are more equal than others, that the Federal Republic of Germany and France have the right to special treatment because they are Europe’s driving force.
However, there will be no stability without growth.
The Pact is too rigid.
The Pact does not take these substantial differences into account.
In any event, the economic policy cannot be limited to mere observation of the procedures.
The absolute rule of equal treatment of the Member States quite simply prohibits this.
President Prodi has just highlighted the fact that following a serious crisis innovative solutions are needed.
I therefore call on Commissioner Solbes who, after having preached virtue, must now preach intelligence.
After having valiantly defended the principles, now the Commission alone has the freedom to propose a Stability and Growth Pact that is both rigorous and more flexible.
It must be more rigorous in requiring states to maintain a balanced budget when growth exceeds 3% for example.
It must be more rigorous in requiring states to reduce their debt when growth exceeds 3%.
According to the Commission, 1% of investment expenditure generates additional growth of 0.6% of GDP.
I am not calling here for American-style deficits … &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to make some constructive points about how to get out of the present mess.
The first is that there must be a sense of shared responsibility.
Remember that the problem for both Germany and France began because of the budget relaxations, the tax cuts and public spending increases introduced between 1999 and 2002.
If it had not happened, both countries would today be within the 3% limit.
Yet no institution, neither the Commission nor the European Central Bank, nor any Member of this House, warned those governments against such easing.
The system failed and we are all duty-bound to put it right.
This is important, too, because the Stability and Growth Pact is not a judicial procedure, but a political procedure that relies on the support of the finance ministers for recommendations and, ultimately, sanctions.
There must be a reinforcement of discipline in the good years and, in the short term, there must be an agreement on the size and speed of the adjustments necessary for the countries in breach to move back to balance.
Those special circumstances should now be defined to include the risk of a further prolongation of the recession in Germany and in France which, together, represent half of the euro area.
We have already said here on more than one occasion that this Stability Pact is useless.
In the debate of October last year we confirmed our agreement with President Romano Prodi and Commissioner Lamy’s observations to the effect that this pact is stupid, like all rigid decisions, and that it is a crude instrument for economic governance, which must be replaced by something more intelligent, since the 3% rule is positively medieval.
We know that the text approved by Ecofin only imposes rules previously announced by the German and French governments, thereby accepting that these countries have failed to meet the Maastricht criteria for three consecutive years.
Some, indeed, have said that the Pact is not dead; it is merely frozen until the rich and powerful countries decide it can be defrosted because their problems have been solved.
It is in particular Germany and France whom I urge to refrain from blaming the EU in general, and the Stability Pact in particular, for their domestic difficulties.
The finance ministers have impaired its credibility, shattered confidence and given rise to other problems.
That is not acceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in Ecofin’s deliberations, the intergovernmental method prevailed over the Community method with a purely laxist decision being taken to suspend the procedure, without, that is, placing precise conditions on the extension granted to the Federal Republic of Germany and France to achieve a balanced budget.
This is very serious.
This incident, however, only serves to highlight the shortcomings and contradictions that remain in the management of the Stability and Growth Pact, with the European Parliament still being excluded from any codecision procedure.
This means that the Union institutions, starting with the Commission, have to take two completely incompatible approaches in managing the two missions that the Union has given itself in the field of economic, social and environmental policy.
It is these serious shortcomings, which are also present in the Commission initiative, which explain why management which is flexible but not appropriate in terms of compliance with the objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact has been adopted, without the minimal but specific conditions being established that justify the length of time set for adjusting budgets.
I am referring to the Lisbon strategy, to the binding objectives of the Lisbon strategy that need to be among the conditions to be fulfilled in the implementation of the Stability Pact. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of the various aspects dealt with in this debate, I would like to comment on the following: firstly, there has unquestionably been a serious crisis in the application of the bases of monetary union and the euro, which damage their credibility.
In order to reinvigorate investment across the board, any reform of the Stability Pact must go hand in hand with more European economic, social, employment, fiscal and environmental policies.
The Presidency has succeeded in obtaining the unanimous adoption, including, therefore, endorsement even from the most rigorous States, of conclusions which contain important commitments on respecting the Pact, budgetary discipline and implementing structural reforms.
As regards the Commission recommendation, the issue is a simple one: the Commission presented recommendations which, while fully respecting the Treaty, were put to the vote in the Council.
The procedures are clearly described in the Maastricht Treaty, and they are echoed in the Stability Pact.
The fact that they do not absolutely have to agree in their assessments has something to do with the way in which everyone stresses the need for the Pact to be adhered to and our need for rules, without it being clear how effective a pact of this kind can be when it deals only with sanctions for when things are going badly and makes no provision for the Commission to have a role when things are going well.
There are passages in force that are admissions of weakness and the oxygen of confidence has become scarce in the European Union since that day.
Indeed, one of the Council’s conclusions highlights this.
The Franco-German relationship is a driving force, but this driving force must not turn into a detonator that would cause Europe to explode. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the crisis in which the Stability and Growth Pact finds itself shows very clearly the instability of the EU’s currency union.
We can see how, in practice, there are quite different rules for large countries such as Germany and France and for small countries such as Portugal and Ireland.
The problem is that, in practice, the EU’s currency union and Stability and Growth Pact have nothing to offer in terms of getting growth under way and creating higher employment.
It is no coincidence that those Western European countries that are not part of the currency union enjoy, on average, very much stronger economic development than the eurozone countries.
It must be able to allow a more expansive economic policy in times of crisis so that it is possible to escape from the economic crisis.
The crisis in the Stability and Growth Pact is further proof that it was a clever decision to stay out of the EU’s currency union.
We can do no other than back Commissioner Solbes to the hilt and urge him to take the Heads of State or Government to court, for such a breach of the European Stability and Growth Pact cannot be accepted without protest.
The leading German daily paper, the , spoke of Germany and France as a ‘’, as digging the European Union’s grave rather than acting as examples to its other Member States of how to do things.
The difference between 0% and 3% gives the Member States EUR&#160;250 billion in reserve to deal with difficulties caused by the economic cycle, the management of international crises and natural disasters, so the problem is in fact that Germany and France already had no room for manoeuvre left when things started to get difficult.
I am surprised, however, that some people are talking about referring the matter to the Court of Justice and that no one has ever considered referring to the Court of Justice other violations of the Treaty committed on an ongoing basis by practically all of the members of the euro zone, when they did not consider their economic policy to be an issue of common interest, as the Treaty suggests.
The Stability Pact is only the rule at the end of the process that allows the points to be counted.
The Stability Pact is called stupid or rigid.
From the point of view of the economic policies, we have the strategic tool we need to ensure new growth in Europe: the Lisbon strategy.
Some people have proposed a strategy for major work.
Everyone is talking about coordination but it only comes to the forefront when it enables France and Germany to unite against the Commission.
The most fundamental principle of democracy is respect for the law by everyone.
If the Stability Pact does not satisfy, let it be abolished or amended.
I hope with the same latitude that was shown to France and Germany.
It would be unfair for a different standard to be applied to a small country in the future.
From that point of view the demise of the Stability Pact is good for stability. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to start by quoting Aníbal Cavaco Silva, the Professor of Economics and former Prime Minister of my country, under whose leadership Portugal joined the euro.
His words might be harsh, but they are right: ‘the Stability Pact was a stab in the back for the Franco-German axis, which changed from being a boost for a Community-based Europe to a factor for instability.
There is one thing I am sure of, however: we need mechanisms to discipline public finances in the interest of the euro and of Europe.
Madam President, our aim should be to strengthen the instruments for European integration, not to weaken them, especially in the context of the debate on the new Constitutional Treaty and on the completion of enlargement. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently devoting a great deal of effort, and attaching a great deal of weight, to discussion of a new constitutional treaty, whereby we provide ourselves with a new legal framework for the future, at the same time as we do this, the larger countries demonstrate their indifference to the law as it stands.
The only thing I can actually do is give the Commission my backing.
This is where the Commission must proceed with rigour and consistency, and let me issue a warning against negotiating a new Pact; the current situation in Europe being what it is, any new Pact would not be worthy of the name, but would end up as a hotchpotch of wishful thinking and aspirations towards flexibility that bear no relation whatever to what the economy demands.
Acting in the name of Germany, the German finance minister has just trodden this law underfoot by joining with France in doing serious damage to the Stability Pact.
Rules can be changed, but not by breaking them.
It was a black day for Europe when this damage was done to the Stability Pact, resulting in a crisis of confidence and a political crisis within the European Union. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Presidency has been criticised for not being neutral.
The Italian Presidency, and I am quoting Commissioner&#160;Solbes, made a great effort to find a solution, but it is also true that it did not vote in favour of the Commission recommendations.
The Presidency’s position has been totally impartial.
If I am not mistaken, the chairman gave the example of two countries that have shifted their position: Ireland and Portugal.
I am sorry to see that Ireland and Portugal, together with France and Germany, and Belgium, Greece and Luxembourg as well, voted in favour of the Commission’s conclusions.
The debate about ‘large’ and ‘small’ countries does not hold water.
Frankly, I do not believe that the Commission has a political monopoly and I do not believe that rules are the same thing as sanctions.
The difference does not lie in the procedure: whether the procedure and the sanctions amount to the same thing or whether the procedure can be construed in a different way, the requirement of essential compliance with the Commission’s recommendations remains the same.
The main part of the rules is something else and providing for sanctions is important.
I concluded my speech saying that substance is more important than form, or rather that both are important, but that, up until now, there has been too much focus on one aspect of the procedure, as if it were made up of sanctions alone, and this is not the case.
The substance is very simple, and this came out of the debate with political force and intelligence.
We are going though a difficult stage in Europe, in which we see a striking correlation between the extent of the problems and the governance capacity.
The extent of the problems: two wars in two years, the breakdown of the geopolitical balance in the world, the collapse of the financial markets, unregulated competition created by China, the effects caused&#160;–&#160;perhaps more than predicted&#160;–&#160;by the changeover in some countries, local and sectoral crises.
I believe that Isaac Newton would have some difficulty in understanding the cause and effect link between these two phenomena.
I believe that the Constitutional Treaty provides a basis for the development of European governance: I believe that, in the growth plan proposed by the Presidency but which has now become a European plan Europe has found a beneficial common undertaking in the form of a common economic policy: the first since the euro.
In 2003, Europe began an extremely intensive cycle of structural reforms.
Europe is being renewed, investing in its future and changing growth expectations through a cycle of structural measures and essential structural reforms.
Secondly, the Commission will continue to make all the necessary effort to fulfil its responsibilities in terms of budgetary vigilance.
We know that complying with the Pact in the current context will raise certain problems, certain difficulties, but we are going to do so while guaranteeing absolutely equal treatment for all Member States.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; . – The Queen of the Councils of Ministers, the Ecofin, has come tumbling off her pedestal with a loud thud.
I am in favour of a much stronger role for the Commission.
Countries that are themselves in breach of the rules should be excluded from voting on the assessment of other countries that infringe the same rules.
As such, they carry a heavy responsibility. &#160;&#160; – I would like to talk about the Geneva Accord and tell you that, like Jimmy Carter and Nelson Mandela, both former Presidents and winners of the Nobel Peace Prize, the European Parliament must welcome and support the initiative launched by Yossi Beilin and Yasser Abbed Rabbo, who proposed a peace plan between Israelis and Palestinians on Monday, 1 December in Geneva.
As Kofi Annan said, this plan does not take the place of the UN proposals.
We must support a strong signal at a time when certain people in both camps are virulently opposed to this peace plan.
They must be provided with a genuine lesson in peace and forced to move beyond hate in order to live together.
I think that it is time to offer a generation of Palestinians and Israelis a genuine future, and a generation across the world the capacity the politicians have of ensuring that they can all live together with greater success. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I rise to ask you if you will join with me in expressing your concern to the Turkish judicial authorities about the delays in bringing to trial those persons involved in the affray that took place in Galatasaray, Turkey on the occasion of a football match with Leeds United in April 2000.
This terrible event led to the murders of my constituents Christopher Loftus and Kevin Speight.
A local man, Ali Umit Demir, has now been convicted of these murders.
The third date for the hearing has now been arranged for 11 December 2003.
He condemns the situation in the concentration camps and the situation of the detainees, which are precisely the issues on which we would like to hear him and to be able to discuss with him.
I would therefore ask Parliament’s president and the Conference of Presidents to consider this matter again, since our invitation of 13&#160;November was thwarted and it is extremely important that we achieve the release of Oswaldo Payá so that he can come and tell us what is happening in his country. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I want to raise the case of a British man on death row in Ohio in the United States.
Kenny Richey was convicted 16 years ago of arson and the murder of a two-year old girl who died in the fire.
Sometimes it is better to say less than more in these issues. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I feel that it is my duty to speak about an issue that regards the dramatic legal event in Italy affecting the current life senator, Giulio Andreotti.
I therefore believe that the ordeal of this man, a life senator, one of the public figures to have made a significant contribution to the development of democracy in the country and one of the fathers of Europe, should be firmly highlighted, and that it must be made clear that a part of the Italian justice system, which is clearly ineffectual if not subversive, enforced this situation which has disturbed both Italy and Europe for 10 years.
I therefore urge you, Madam President, and I am sure that I am not just interpreting the will of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian democrats) and European Democrats, but also the opinion of the European Parliament as a whole, to give Senator Andreotti formal recognition for the clarity, the far-sightedness and the great democratic uprightness that distinguishes this valuable and useful European figure. &#160;&#160; Madam President, as there is time remaining, allow me to bring to the attention of Commissioner Fischler an issue relating to his decoupling proposals and the area required to be farmed once decoupled.
If farmers have to farm 100% of the area they farmed during the reference years 2000 to 2002 in order to draw down the decoupled or area-based payment, it will put huge pressure on the price of rented land or Conacre as we say in Ireland both in Ireland and in other countries.
That means dealing successfully with more cross-border problems, and in a more democratic manner.
The report I am presenting to you this evening on behalf of our Commission is also about better, more democratic and more transparent governance.
Even without adapting the European treaties, we can implement substantial reforms.
Enhancing European governance is one of the Prodi Commission's key strategic objectives for the period 2000-2004.
In 2001, we issued the White Paper on European Governance, on which we in this House gave our opinion.
The Commission can do a great deal more in order to actively bring Europe closer to the citizen.
I have, in this report, made various proposals to this effect.
This means that for every law that the Commission lays down, it should think about their social, ecological and economic impact on everyday life of the citizens for whom these are established.
Parliament has already urged the Commission to publish clear lists specifying which experts can be consulted on which topics.
In that way, Parliament and the Council, and I even think the Commission, gain a clear insight into who exactly examines these legislative proposals and into the fundamental policy choices that are made during the policy-forming process.
I would call on the Commission finally to do something about these lists after three years of promises, for we want a parliamentary democracy and not a democracy of experts.
Multilateralism and a broad concept of safety, which include peace and security, but also the fight against poverty and sustainable development, have always been at the heart of foreign policy.
However, we want the EU to speak with one voice in this respect, starting, if possible, with one seat in the Security Council.
Finally, turning to the consultation of organisations, I have quite specifically underlined the need for local and regional authorities to be among the bodies consulted. 'Europe begins in the regions'.
That is why it is important for regional authorities to have their own voice and to be given this in the legislative process.
The Commission has grasped this well and is showing itself willing to do something about this.
It is not simply the responsibility of the Commission, but of all Institutions.
This is why, in this report, we call for an interinstitutional agreement in the area of consultation, to be binding upon all institutions.
The reforms contained in the White Paper on Governance are of major importance for Europe and for its citizens.
The point is, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy pointed out in its opinion on this matter, much of the implementation of important aspects of European policy environmental policy, regional policy and other policies, including transport is carried out in Member States at a level of government below that of the centralised state government.
And yet there is a danger of inadequate connection between the Commission, at the centre, and local and regional government.
The Commission's proposal on tripartite contracts and agreements is a proposal for precisely such an improvement, and therefore my Group strongly welcomes it.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and the Environment Committee also welcome it and wish to carry it forward.
One of the first pilot arrangements in terms of a tripartite agreement was among cities.
It was based on the idea of a sustainable city for example Birmingham, Stockholm and other cities in the Union.
One of the interesting facts I discovered in reading a report on that pilot project was that the city of Birmingham could write to the central government in London and go for weeks or months without receiving a reply.
Sometimes in this House we use the word 'region' in a very misleading sense.
Cities and regions have great identity but towns, in our local government system, have lost that.
All these things matter.
The report adopted by the Constitutional Affairs Committee needs to be amended, not in such a way as to break the spirit of what was agreed in that Committee, but in a way that completes that spirit by building in some of the points agreed on by the Environment Committee, all of the points agreed on by the Legal Affairs Committee, and some of the things which have emerged from the pilot projects under way.
With the same intention, Parliament, the Council and the Commission recently concluded the 2003 Interinstitutional Agreement on Better Lawmaking.
This is a major step in the right direction and ensures that the competences of all of the institutions will be fully respected in our future work to achieve better regulation.
Our first task is to provide a coherent and transparent framework for the consultation of these groups.
Here the Commission fully shares the European Parliament’s opinion that consultation cannot be a substitute for parliamentary democracy and emphasises that the aim of having minimum requirements for consultation is to give stakeholders a voice, but not a vote.
Neither will these measures impact on the institutional role of the two advisory bodies, the EESC and the CoR.
The general principles and minimum requirements for consultation set out by the Commission could also serve as a basis for a further interinstitutional agreement.
The Commission also agrees with Parliament that the consultation process must not be allowed to slow down the legislative process and stresses that the minimum eight-week consultation period for public consultations strikes a good balance between the need for efficient decision-making and gaining the necessary input from external parties.
To make the consultation process more transparent, the Commission has published a formal and structured list of advisory bodies.
Careful preparation, however, is not the only way in which the Commission needs to improve the quality of its work; it must also make this process more transparent.
This decision also covers expert knowledge and the consultation of interested parties.
The approach adopted in this report is in tune with the Commission proposal and is as ambitious as it is sensible.
At the same time, however, it is also a sensible approach, because we do not question the need to proceed step by step.
The Commission had the same idea in mind when it adopted the communication on tripartite contracts and agreements last December, as it had promised to do in the White Paper on European Governance.
Tripartite contracts between the Commission, the Member State and the region might possibly form part of a new system to implement the Structural Funds.
Secondly, we need to consider what legal, political or institutional stumbling blocks might in certain cases lie in the way of using such agreements.
In regional policy in particular, I should therefore like to draw a distinction between two phases: the phase of determining the development strategy, where greater involvement on the part of authorities below the State level is desirable – provided that it is compatible with the constitutional system of the Member State concerned – and then the implementation phase.
This is the central idea which the rapporteur has taken up very well in his main report.
Secondly, I believe that significant progress has been made in recent months with the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement, between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, on the improvement of Community legislation.
Only very positive action by the European Union can put an end to the national legislative jungle which prevents the proper functioning of the European institutions and the European market, the internal market, which is one of our objectives.
With 25 Member States each Community rule represents a genuine legislative simplification and the way ahead does not involve a reduction in the Community acquis but in strengthening it and consolidating it.
I hope that tomorrow we can approve this report without any great difficulty. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech concerns the MacCormick report, which deals with European governance and&#160;–&#160;as the rapporteur rightly mentioned&#160;–&#160;Europe united in diversity.
The Commission communication on which this debate is based, and to which Commissioner Fischler made a timely reference earlier, proposes tripartite contracts and agreements committing the Community, the States and regional and local authorities.
We know that, in any case, these are agreements bound by an obligation of compatibility with the Treaties regulating the life of the European Union and adjustments that must not hinder the functioning of the internal market.
This principle entails respecting the various constitutional systems of the States of the Union, but it recognises that in some States there are constitutional systems that assign huge responsibilities to regional and local authorities, which must not be reduced despite the fact that, in such cases, the need for greater democratic participation must not cause imbalances that would run counter to the guidelines produced by the constituent Convention.
Tripartite contracts cannot, however, derogate from the provisions of secondary law applicable throughout the territory of the European Union because&#160;–&#160;as I mentioned earlier&#160;–&#160;it is only in this way that they remain coherent with the guidelines of the constituent Convention.
We need to improve the implementation of Community policy.
It is, therefore, important that the tripartite agreements and contracts define clear objectives based on the need to give due consideration to diversity throughout the territory of the European Union, although, on the basis of these experiences, it will then be possible to look again at a policy for the management of Community policies that goes beyond the issue of diversity and tackles the more general issue of democracy in greater depth without, however, compromising&#160;–&#160;and I believe that this must be emphasised&#160;–&#160;the uniform enforcement of Community law across the entire European area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are debating the regulatory framework for future contracts and tripartite agreements between the Community, the States and regional and local authorities.
I am thinking of the FIFG funds and programmes for the fisheries sector, or LEADER + for agriculture for the target regions of FEDER or the URBAN and Interreg projects, amongst others, in which the participation and responsibility of the territorial bodies is so essential.
By drawing up contracts directly with the regions, the Commission can enter into legally-binding agreements with local and regional bodies on regional and other policy issues such as the environment.
It appears to me that the Commission is attempting progressively to break down the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe into bite-sized chunks, aided and abetted, in this case, by our own government.
I shall certainly vote against this report tomorrow in plenary.
Quite simply, we cannot accept a situation where the Commission foists upon us any changes to the UK's government structures.
If we accept that the EU can deal directly in any way with the regions, we are compromising national integrity, and the nation as the prime building-block of the EU.
I want to stress the vital importance of an ever more transparent administrative culture in the European Union if we are to gain the approval of its citizens.
The public must be able to understand how this whole place works, and it is absolutely necessary to replace mind-boggling legal texts with something that is more streamlined, and I am in favour of that.
I would nevertheless like to make one additional amendment, which is already contained in this report.
The Commission and Parliament have become more transparent, but the Council has not.
Firstly, I should like to thank you for your constructive contributions to this debate on the two reports.
Secondly, I should like to address a few of the points that have been raised.
The reality is rather different.
You are probably aware that we did actually look into this a few years ago and it turned out that the Member States introduce more new pieces of legislation every year than the Community has introduced since its inception.
Above all, however, it will be important to identify what these days we often refer to as ‘European added value’, because any legislative initiatives with no such added value should have a large question mark over them.
This is an important point, particularly in the light of the new European constitution, which specifically states that legislation should be subject to such a test.
Five years ago almost to the day, on 2&#160;December 1998, this House held a heated debate here in Brussels with the former President of the Commission, Jacques Santer.
Today, a good five months before the Members of this House bid one another a final farewell and head for the campaign trail, it is a question of identifying what is feasible and tackling this together, so that on such a decisive issue as protecting the Union’s financial interests we do not have to go before our electorate empty-handed.
My report makes it very clear that our prime concern is that OLAF is underperforming, something that was brought to light very dramatically by the Eurostat case.
OLAF needs to focus its investigations on those areas in which the relevant bodies in the Member States either cannot or do not wish to intervene, that is on investigations within the institutions and on the expenditure that is managed directly by the Commission.
My second point is respect for the fundamental rights of those involved in investigations.
The OLAF Regulation is absolutely clear on this.
I only have to remind you of the most recent example, the reprimand issued by the Ombudsman last week against OLAF in connection with the libelling of a journalist in public statements made by the Office.
If the fundamental freedoms of those concerned are not respected then at the end of the day the results of the investigations are also worthless, and I fear that, as a result, OLAF still has some nasty surprises in store in connection with Eurostat.
This counterbalance is the OLAF Supervisory Committee, but on three conditions: firstly, that the amendment concerned explicitly confers upon it the power to ensure that the fundamental freedoms and rights of those involved in investigations are respected; secondly, that it receives the additional resources to enable it to carry out this task, and thirdly, last but not least, that it has greater independence from the Director of OLAF, not only by increasing the number of staff in the Committee’s secretariat, but also by removing it from the organisational framework of both OLAF and the Commission.
Targeting resources on investigative activities and stepping up the monitoring of these investigative activities are the key points that now need to be addressed where OLAF is concerned.
I therefore commend this report to the House. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Bösch, ladies and gentlemen, OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, was, as you mentioned, established in 1999.
OLAF carries out its administrative investigations, whether internal or external, completely independently, even though the office is established within the Commission.
This sounds very technical, but it is a tremendously important debate, because it is about the future of OLAF, which, let us not forget, is still a very young office.
The evaluation of OLAF’s activities over the last three years, which is the subject of the report, has been largely eclipsed by the Eurostat affair.
It is true, however, that the Eurostat affair did highlight existing shortcomings, in particular the question of communication between OLAF and the Commission, and OLAF’s legal framework, which was adopted in record time in 1999, needs to be adjusted accordingly.
In it, the Committee on Budgetary Control criticises various aspects of OLAF’s work, in particular its investigative activities and its priorities.
It would be wrong to view and assess OLAF through the Eurostat lens alone and not to include other essential work in the evaluation, whether it be in customs or cooperating with the enlargement countries to fight fraud – a very important field – or in the legislative area.
What we all want is a proportionate reform of OLAF, that can be dealt with if possible in this parliamentary session.
The Commission and the Committee on Budgetary Control agree that OLAF should concentrate more on its core activities.
I should, however, also like to scotch the rumours that could be heard after the President of the Commission had made his speech, namely that if Commission officials were suspected of fraud the Commission wanted to take control of the internal investigations away from OLAF.
In addition, however, the boundaries between OLAF and other entities with investigative powers, in particular IDOC, need to be more clearly defined.
The information flow between OLAF and the institutions needs to be improved considerably.
Even when investigations are ongoing, the Commission must be able to take precautionary measures to protect the Community’s financial interests, obviously without jeopardising OLAF’s investigations.
The draft memorandum of understanding between the Commission and OLAF is, in our view, an important and opportune step forward.
The OLAF Manual already contains a whole series of detailed internal rules about this.
The main principles underlying the rights of the people concerned, such as their right to inspect files and to be given a hearing, should however be spelt out in the regulation itself.
The Commission has not yet concluded its reflections on this.
However, I can say that on the whole strengthening the Supervisory Committee, as proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control, is something with which we can agree, particularly when it comes to examining complaints.
The Supervisory Committee itself has of course made an interesting proposal on this in its opinion.
The Commission cannot, however, accept the rapporteur’s proposal to make the secretariat of the Supervisory Committee part of the European Parliament’s secretariat.
The proposal raises fundamental questions of interinstitutional balance and also legal issues.
Neither can the Commission support the other proposals on OLAF’s budgetary status or on the control mechanism within the Commission, because they would call into question key aspects of the reform of our financial management.
However, the Commission is confident that it will be able to table a legislative proposal very quickly at the beginning of next year.
We will take account of your report and the opinions of the Supervisory Committee in our work and considerations.
The Commission is prepared to cooperate extensively with Parliament and, in the interests of effective fraud prevention in the European Union, our joint overriding objective should be to create a solid and workable basis for OLAF’s future work. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, work on the Bösch report was obviously overshadowed by the Eurostat affair.
In its efforts to shed light on the Eurostat affair – its secret bank accounts, mis-management and nepotism – the Committee on Budgetary Control also uncovered significant shortcomings within OLAF.
In this case, OLAF’s main failing was to work too slowly.
The Commission has an inexhaustible wealth of ideas in this respect, with which it now even appears to want to honour the OLAF Supervisory Committee.
There is still a long way to go before we have a European financial prosecution service, but I hope that there will be no turning back.
Our Committee on Budgetary Control has always viewed OLAF as a working instrument for a European Prosecution Service, an institution made increasingly necessary by the growth and sophistication of transnational European crime.
We must ask ourselves whether, until OLAF is given the status of a European Prosecution Service, it makes sense to continue investing in police action that this organisation cannot legally pursue and instead employ auditing methods that are used in all financial crime-fighting and which no financial investigation body can do without.
Clearly contributing to OLAF’s poor performance in the recent Eurostat case was a lack of understanding of basic concepts of communication and information, and an imbalance between the interests in play.
Another contributing factor was the lack of auditors, whose skills must always be at the heart of combating financial fraud or irregularities.
Nevertheless, in our opinion, this report does not quite measure up to our aims.
It must be fully independent of all the institutions.
Finally, I also think that it is important that this report be about OLAF.
The Commission must not use OLAF as a dustbin for all the cases it does not feel like dealing with itself.
Even if a case has been forwarded to OLAF, that does not release the Commission from its obligation to act.
OLAF must be fully independent, and we must admit that we were wrong to set OLAF up as an administrative part of the Commission.
The secretariat of the Supervisory Committee must be fully independent of the Commission.
The staff working for OLAF must be independent of all the institutions, and it is important that staff are not allowed to apply for posts in the Commission afterwards, because we have of course seen examples of cases being shelved because people had to go back to the Commission.
I telephoned OLAF about Eurostat in the spring of 2002, after Dorte Schmidt-Brown had contacted me for the first time.
If a Supervisory Committee is to be genuinely independent in its evaluations, it should be independent of Parliament as well.
However, we should not now make the mistake of trying to achieve a transitional solution which pushes the Supervisory Committee vicariously into this role, as this would not be the appropriate role.
We take the view that OLAF must be – and must remain – genuinely independent, but this does not mean that its independence from the Commission is necessarily strengthened if this House gets involved in micromanaging OLAF at the same time.
It could of course be said that the advisability of Parliament giving such detailed rules for the reform of OLAF is doubtful, but, as the Commission has been unable to create a functioning monitoring body, Parliament must of course attend to it.
Indeed, what is important is to bring about a sea change in our approach towards dealing with the EU’s economy as a whole. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, this debate should have taken place last year.
The Commission continues to perform in a wholly unsatisfactory manner now that it has submitted this progress report to Parliament more than a year late.
I firmly hold the Commissioner to the promise that she made a moment ago to present her proposal to Parliament within two months.
Of course, we could have voted on its outcomes and possible implementation at an earlier stage if the Commission had submitted its evaluation of OLAF’s three years of work on time, as envisaged in the Regulation, instead of over nine months late.
Let me cite just a few examples: its protracted recruitment process, its excessively long investigations, its failure to inform the Supervisory Committee as required, and above all the poor training and the failure to adequately respect the defence rights of the individuals under investigation.
I take the Supervisory Committee’s clear statement on this latter point especially seriously, as it directly highlights the need to create a European Public Prosecutor to protect the Union’s financial interests.
This House has called for such an appointment for a very long time and the Commission has now added its voice to these calls in the Convention and at the Intergovernmental Conference.
The fundamental rights of the individual can only be guaranteed within a judicial framework based on the rule of law.
Until this objective is achieved, I fully support strengthening the Supervisory Committee, both as regards the Secretariat – we need to discuss its allocation to the European Parliament budget – and also, and especially, the appointment of highly qualified, independent persons as members of the Supervisory Committee.
Financial interests would hardly be protected; legality would be the key element in all European issues.
Coming back to the Eurostat case, which disturbs and irritates many of us, I feel I can say that I certainly agree that our positions should be cautious, but, at the same time, we cannot accept an arrangement, which would mean that it would be seen as counterproductive to place the European Institutions in jeopardy over this case.
We should be discussing and debating something else: in the Eurostat affair, were the contracts concluded properly or did fraud come to light?
Therefore there might be a case for reassigning to Commission departments certain horizontal tasks that are unrelated to investigations.
I think you know as well as I do that OLAF’s core tasks – in other words, what was reinforced and, in part, newly established in 1999 – are indeed the internal investigations, the rights to conduct internal investigations, and the duties to do so.
As the President of the Commission has pledged, we will work very closely on these points with the Committee on Budgetary Control, also in advance of the drafting process. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Commission should perhaps finally decide whether it is satisfied with OLAF’s work or not.
I almost have the impression that we are criticising OLAF out of the blue, yet I had the feeling that President Prodi has been taking OLAF apart with his criticisms while we have been defending it, since so many Members of this House, speaking in today’s debate, have stated that Eurostat is not an OLAF matter, it is a Commission matter.
Otherwise, I am very pleased that it is happy with everything to do with OLAF.
That does not mean that we have not moved from our position, and I think there are still a number of misunderstandings as regards the independence of the Supervisory Committee.
We cannot tolerate this. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Commission has proposed making various changes to the system to promote conversion of fishing vessels and fishermen that were, up to 1999, dependent on the fishing agreement with Morocco.
Since then, the aid to the people affected entered into force, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999, payable under the FIFG.
In order to fund these actions the Solidarity Fund was used, as you know, to the tune of EUR 197 million in total.
The Regulation also provided for derogating measures and exceptions to the legislation defining the methods and conditions for interventions aimed at structuring within the fisheries sector.
In certain cases, the vessels were able to be relocated to other fishing grounds, fishing less than they fished in Moroccan grounds and, therefore, losing income.
Therefore, and so that this Regulation – as both the Commission and the European Parliament want – can in practice deal with the greatest possible number of people affected, we must eliminate the provisions according to which the individual global premiums can only be granted to a vessel or to fishermen who fished in a vessel whose fishing activities have ceased for good.
I wished to take advantage of this modification of the Regulation on aid for the conversion of the fleet which fished in Morocco to point out that what was done then must not be the exception, but the rule.
We should not therefore make partial modifications to the general Regulation on FIFG structural aid whenever a situation such as this occurs, but rather there should be a permanent general framework in order to provide aid whenever it happens, either as a result of species recovery plans in Community waters or in external waters when they affect our fleet, the Community fleet.
This has been the case recently with the Community halibut fleet in NAFO waters, where the Commission proposed a recovery plan for halibut which was accepted and which involves dropping from 42 000 tonnes this year, 2003, to 16 000 tonnes in 2007, a reduction of 62%.
And since it appears here that nothing has happened, I say that the Commission must be obliged to do something in order not to jeopardise the future of this fleet.
Our intention in presenting this amendment which, Commissioner, is not a ‘Varela’ amendment but an amendment tabled by the Committee on Fisheries, is to resolve these problems and any future problems.
If our Parliament approves it tomorrow, my request to you, Commissioner, is that the Commission should consider this since the sector in question is calling for it.
The European Parliament wishes to help you and be your ally and an ally of the sector and therefore ensure in this way that the European Commission takes action.
I would like to end – since I will not have time later – by congratulating Chairman Stevenson, rapporteur for the report on Mozambique, which we are going to deal with next, because it is a wonderful report which deserves our support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the failure to renew the fisheries agreement with Morocco dealt a harsh blow to the external strategy for fisheries policy and has had tragic consequences for certain fishing areas, especially in Andalusia and, on a smaller scale, in Portugal’s Algarve region.
We therefore welcome this Commission proposal, which has come about as the result of Parliamentary pressure as well as requests from the two countries directly affected, Portugal and Spain.
Even then, the potential problems of implementing this regulation had already been clearly identified.
We support the Miguélez Ramos report, and have nothing but praise for the rapporteur’s work and for the initiatives she has produced, which are doubtless behind the corrections that are being made to the proposal.
We must ensure equal treatment for all fishermen and we must ensure that the regulation covers the greatest number possible of people working in this sector.
I wish to make one last comment, Mr President, which concerns the need, in future, to provide emergency measures for situations of vulnerability when agreements with third countries might lead to situations of collapse and harm fishing activities.
I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is positive and important to undertake the adjustment for this very specific case of the Spanish and Portuguese fleet in connection with the Morocco Agreement, or the expiry of the Morocco Agreement.
However, I still believe that we should not have recourse to knee-jerk legislation of any kind.
A midterm review is envisaged in any case, and I believe that is the right moment to discuss all the elements and experiences that we have gathered during implementation in the first half of the implementing period. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This concerns the Fisheries Agreement and the renewal of the Protocol to the Fisheries Agreement between the European Union and Mozambique.
Moreover, we have succeeded in establishing a highly innovative partnership agreement, for Mozambique will earmark the entire amount of the financial compensation to funding marine surveillance, research, training and various other measures designed to develop Mozambique’s fisheries and improve its capacities for fisheries management.
For that reason, I must reject this Amendment. &#160;&#160; .
The agreement is for three years, and the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities, the financial compensation and the technical annex form an integral part of the agreement and enters into force on 1 January 2004.
The main fisheries connected to this agreement are, of course, deepwater shrimp and tuna.
As the Commissioner knows, we have had considerable controversy in the past concerning some of these international third-country agreements.
In the case of Senegal, we insisted that 60% of the financial compensation should be for fishing opportunities and 40% should be for conservation and development.
It is important that through the Senegal agreement, and the subsequent agreements we have achieved since then, we are trying to continue with this pattern in order to continue to provide these kinds of sustainable fisheries agreements.
In these circumstances, if we act via the EU, we have a better opportunity for monitoring the way these agreements work.
In this case, we have a report of an abundance of deepwater shrimp and tuna in this area.
We are going to give fishing opportunities for ten vessels fishing for 1000 tonnes per year of deepwater shrimp - and an additional 535 tonne by-catch - 35 freezer tuna seiners and 14 surface longliners fishing for 8000 tonnes of tuna.
The financial package is EUR 4&#160;090&#160;000 per annum.
In this case it is not a question of 60% for fishing opportunities and 40% for development; all of it is going towards conservation and development - EUR 1.5 million for monitoring marine fisheries, EUR 1 million for institutional development, EUR 1 million for research, EUR 430&#160;000 for training, EUR 100&#160;000 for quality control and EUR 60&#160;000 to help Mozambique participate in international meetings.
This is a very good package and I commend it to the House.
Apart from this, the Committee on Budgets is in favour of this Protocol with the Republic of Mozambique, which provides for new fishing opportunities for the Community fleet in the Indian Ocean.
It means we want to see real benefits for the local communities and assurances that this agreement will not have negative impacts on the local populations that depend on fisheries.
We want the Commission to maximise local employment opportunities arising from the agreement, looking at access for fishermen to the tuna fishing business.
Stock management issues are also important.
We want the Commission to make sure that the agreement takes full account of the sustainable management of fisheries resources, particularly with regard to tuna stocks.
Finally, I agree with all those who are saying that it is extremely important that the Parliament be kept informed of the implementation of this agreement.
We need regular assessments on what is happening on the ground before we can agree to any renewal of the agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to overcome the problem of its scant fish stocks, the European Union has, amongst other measures, concluded agreements with third countries with a view to using these countries’ territorial waters in exchange for financial compensation.
In 2002, the European Union signed an agreement of this nature with Mozambique, which was seen by many as the perfect agreement, because it managed to combine cooperation and mutual interest: in the next three years the Community fleet will be able to fish in Mozambican territorial waters in return for financial compensation of around EUR&#160;four&#160;million.
Firstly, because it covers species which have abundant stocks in Mozambique; shrimp and tuna.
International fisheries agreements with third countries have always been one of the key elements of Community fisheries policy.
In economic terms, the European Union is an enormous market of more than 370 million inhabitants, an expanding market with a deficit in fisheries products.
As a Portuguese citizen, I make this statement without any colonialist nostalgia or any harking back to those times, but I feel that the fact that Community boats are returning to Mozambican waters is also a sign of the democratic maturity that Mozambique has achieved and the normalisation of diplomatic relations that have been established between that country and the European Union.
In fact, as has already been said, this agreement brings mutual advantages and really represents the culmination of a process of drafting fisheries agreements with third countries that the Commission and Parliament have been working on for some time now.
This could provide a model for future agreements with third countries, poor countries, underdeveloped countries for whom the type of scheme and system contained in this agreement provides the best way of protecting their interests, of supporting their fisheries in a manner that is ecologically, scientifically and economically advantageous.
I must therefore congratulate the Commission on having achieved such positive results in its diplomatic relations with Mozambique, and the Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries on the excellent report he has produced. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
In the absence of any such provisions, cross-border transportation of mortal remains is governed by two instruments of international law, but primarily the Strasbourg agreement concluded in 1973.
The world, methods and technology have changed much since then.
On account of the above-mentioned agreements, the death of a Community citizen in a Member State other than his country of origin results in much more complex procedures, a longer period of time before burial or cremation takes place, and higher costs than if the death had occurred in the deceased person's country of origin.
The Commission has recently stated once again that EU citizens should be able to move between Member States on terms similar to those applicable to nationals of a Member State, and that additional administrative or legal obligations should be kept to the bare minimum required by the fact that the person in question is a non-national.
We are presented with the ludicrous situation that we are supposed to be a Europe without internal borders, yet as soon as somebody dies, when there is a great need for understanding and sympathy, we erect the borders merely because the body needs to be transported from one country to another.
We are presented with a ludicrous situation in which the repatriation of a corpse from Salzburg to Freilassing – a distance of ten kilometres – requires a zinc coffin, but the transfer of a body from Ivalo to Helsinki – a distance of 1120 kilometres – requires no such coffin.
It is quite clear that we need a uniform approach to this situation.
We are currently 15 Member States, soon to be 25.
But imagine for a moment the plight of a mother, Dolores Shambley, dealing with the death of her son, Kris Shambley – barely 20 in 1998.
Dolores Shambley is a woman with very little money, who was given very little assistance.
If we are really interested in upholding the rights of our citizens, I urge the Commission to bring forward proposals and accept the principle of free movement.
There has been a reluctance within the Commission to accept this own-initiative report.
The goodwill is there.
This report sets out very clearly the problems regarding the repatriation of mortal remains that exist within the Union today.
The Commission has signalled, in response to a number of questions by Members of Parliament, that it does not believe, at this stage, that specific harmonisation is required.
In particular, it will simplify administrative procedures and abolish authorisation requirements that are not consistent with the principle of proportionality.
I believe it is our obligation to make as much progress as possible in simplifying as far as we possibly can the procedures necessary – which affect the families so much for the free movement of mortal remains within the Union in the event that death takes place far from their places of origin.
What I have repeatedly witnessed, however, is the appalling conditions in which some bodies have been received because of the lack of proper embalming or care treatment in some countries.
Sadly, there is no attempt in this report to tackle this serious issue, despite a reference to it in the introduction to the explanatory statement, wherein it is hinted that this is the main problem.
This being the case, measures must be adopted to simplify or even harmonise the process of repatriating the mortal remains of persons who have died so as to bring this process more into line with the Community approach which is not, of course, taken into account in the international agreements governing this field.
These are the 1937 Berlin agreement and the 1973 Strasbourg agreement which, because they are quite old, are not relevant to the situation we have in Europe today and have therefore become largely obsolete.
Furthermore, these agreements established a form of indirect discrimination because they apply essentially to ‘non nationals’, which contravenes the fundamental principle of non-discrimination enshrined in Community law, thereby breaching essential rules of Community law.
It consequently falls to the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, to ensure that these are compatible and to adopt the necessary measures to guaranteeing that they are complied with.
It aspires to improving a situation that is indeed common.
In two of the cases I have very recently heard about, the deceased had been killed under what were considered to be suspicious circumstances.
Despite discussions in Strasbourg on my report, he subsequently offered no amendments.
However, it is balanced by a negative point: we are still waiting for a common position on that proposal.
I hope that we could have it by early 2004 at the latest .
Regarding the Community strategy on air pollution from seagoing ships, as I have said before, I very much welcome the publication by the Commission of this communication on a European Union strategy to reduce atmospheric emissions.
However, many of the proposals outlined do not go far enough and in my report I seek to encourage the Commission and the Member States to go a little bit further than outlined in that Commission communication.
In my explanatory statement I underline the seriousness of these impacts that we face.
However, in my report, I seek to add two further categories of emissions that should be covered by the strategy: heavy metals and polycyclic aromatics, which are essentially hydrocarbons associated with cancer.
In relation to that, my report also asks the Commission to study how emissions from international maritime traffic could be included in Directive 2001/81/EC on national emissions ceilings when that is reviewed.
On sulphur emissions, it is appropriate to mention the Commission's proposal on the revision of Directive 99/32/EC relating to the sulphur content of marine fuels.
The Commission must therefore be much more ambitious as regards the limit values it has proposed and, indeed, the sea areas to be covered by such limit values.
My report therefore calls on the Commission to amend its proposal on the revision of Directive 99/32/EC in accordance with the European Parliament's first reading back in June, the aim of which was to reduce sulphur emissions by 80%.
Finally, I would like to see the Member States, the Commission and the accession countries really putting pressure on those countries that have not yet ratified the Marpol Annex VI Agreement.
On the issue of taking international ship emissions and EU national emission ceilings into account, we aim to launch a study soon to get a better perspective on how significant ship emissions are in individual Member States compared to land-based emissions.
We shall feed the results of this work into the Clean Air for Europe Programme in 2005, and present proposals as appropriate.
The proposal as drafted would deliver a significant 40% reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions targeted in asset-sensitive northern Europe.
We have found that the 0.5% fuel sulphur limit proposed by the European Parliament would give rise to a price premium of approximately EUR 70 on every tonne of fuel.
It highlights an issue that the citizens around the European Union are not even aware of, despite the fact that what the Commissioner says is absolutely true.
In my own country, lack of investment in roads means that one alternative could be the development of more coastal shipping, using ports, for example Scarborough and Whitby, in my region.
I hope that these amendments will be taken more seriously by the Commission than some of the amendments that the Commissioner referred to, which call for even stricter levels that may not be cost-effective.
But we now have a reasonably balanced report which we will be pleased to support in the vote in plenary tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, as regards the subject of the Directive, one cannot disagree with the need to reduce atmospheric emissions of sulphur caused by maritime transport, which must agree to make the same efforts as land-based transport in this respect.
Granite areas are particularly vulnerable to the phenomenon of acidification caused by these sulphur emissions and must therefore receive priority treatment.
We do not believe, however, that the rapporteur’s additional proposals on the two other aspects of the Directive concerning the levels applicable to passenger ships and ships in ports are appropriate.
They do not integrate the need to proceed gradually in these fields in order to take account of the heavy technical constraints imposed on our shipowners by these new guidelines, nor the need to develop these emission reductions within the framework of the IMO, which seems ready to act.
The debate is closed.
This proposal, based on Article 93 of the Treaty, is intended to harmonise legislation to the extent that such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market.
Having said that, I should like to make the following comments relating to the report presented by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
That is why the Commission did not propose any change to the level of the rates or the optional nature of reduced rates for Member States.
On the other hand, it is necessary to rationalise the present situation.
The limited extension of Annex H, proposed by the Commission, is intended to reduce the discrepancies between Member States rather than increase them, in line with the objectives of the internal market.
The extremely difficult discussions in the Council on this issue have highlighted the radically divergent views on the question of VAT and the use of reduced rates.
Any amendment which introduces new reduced rates in sectors where the standard rate is currently applied, such as for CDs, would be unacceptable, all the more so because the application of reduced rates could create competitive distortions.
The addition to children's shoes and clothes is also unacceptable.
The rapporteur proposes to maintain the present derogations, but suggests establishing a new annex to the sixth directive, which would include all the supplies for which only one Member State has a specific derogation, thus permitting all Member States to apply a reduced rate to such supplies.
I am not convinced that this solution is feasible.
Already in 1967, 1977, and again in 1992, at the time of the introduction of the internal market, the Council decided to authorise the Member States concerned to maintain these derogations.
I should like to remind you in this context that, for acceding countries, concrete deadlines have been laid down for all derogations.
First, the Member States' and the Commission's reports have clearly shown that reduced rates are not a cost-effective way of creating employment.
I have, however, already indicated to the Council that I was prepared to turn a blind eye to those Member States which, after the 1 January 2004, would continue to apply the reduced rates introduced within the framework of the experiment of reduced rates for labour-intensive services.
This was to give the Council more time to find a solution based on the Commission's proposal.
An extension would merely postpone, once again, a solution to this problem.
A simple extension would, moreover, exclude other Member States, and in particular the new Member States, from being able to introduce reduced rates in the sectors concerned and would therefore be an added source of discrimination.
In that context, I should like to remind Parliament that the Commission has already proposed to introduce, once and for all, housing and domestic care services into Annex H.
That is part of the exercise of rationalisation of the present situation and takes into account the fact that reduced rates are already applied by a majority of Member States.
To conclude, for the reasons I have outlined, the Commission is still convinced of the merits of its proposal and I should like to invite Members to reconsider very carefully their position on this issue. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, in view of the Commissioner’s comments, I would ask the House’s Bureau to consider once again whether it might be more important to allow the rapporteur to speak first, since we are part of the legislative process and the Commission is merely making a proposal.
This House has lobbied in favour of a reduced rate of VAT for labour-intensive services.
However, it has been implemented very tentatively, so we have very little experience on which to assess the impact of this reduced rate of VAT on work and the black economy.
That means that after two years, we did not even know whether this provision would be extended for a year, and we are aware that many companies were not prepared to take the risk and therefore did not participate in the experiment at all.
That is why I urge you to extend this provision – if not for ten years, then for six years, not six months – for otherwise, there will be no legal certainty for the companies involved and we will also be unable to determine whether there has been any change in behaviour on the part of the clients and the businesspeople themselves.
Let me turn now to the fundamental principle underlying your proposal.
I am very sympathetic to the idea of a systematic approach to reduced rates of VAT, but I must ask you this, Commissioner: the whole point is to move towards a definitive VAT system based on the principle of taxation in the country of origin, so that we can introduce this and finally establish genuine and systematic clarity.
If some Member States choose to go down the tax rate route and others prefer direct subsidies, we must be saying to ourselves that this House is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and only to the Community principle where there are actual distortions of competition.
I cannot see that in the areas identified in our report, the functioning of the internal market is in any way impeded, and I also cannot see that consumers are being invited to cross borders in order to purchase products or services or distort the market.
I therefore take the view that tax legislation must take account of these citizens’ interests.
I think our report offers a promising approach for compromises that serve the interests of a well-functioning EU home market. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Commission has recently developed the bad habit of confronting us with proposals, among other things, on the pretext that they dismantle distortions of competition in the internal market and rationalise the VAT system.
Unfortunately, they are counterproductive in the current climate.
We have generally followed her line because she wishes to make it possible for the Member States to retain their reduced rates of VAT.
This applies especially to the reduced rates for labour-intensive services, such as hairdressers and others, which were introduced in 2000.
It is also doubtful whether an experiment conducted over just three years can be described as a failure after such a short time.
It would be premature to draw conclusions at this stage.
Unfortunately, I see no good will on the part of the Commission, and our committee has incorporated most of the services listed in Annex K into the expanded Annex Ha so that the reduced rates will continue to apply if the Member State so wishes.
On behalf of my group, we have tabled amendments enabling the Member States to continue the experiment at least until the new directive enters into force.
The Member States would then have to increase the rates before being allowed to reduce them again in a matter of months when the new directive comes into force, when many of these services will be eligible for the reduced rates.
The situation would become quite farcical.
The third amendment, which I have tabled on behalf of my group, would permit the Member States to retain the parking rates of at least 12% for a further 15 years, so that the changeover would not have to take place abruptly over night, which I think is reasonable.
I hope that the Commission will see sense and support our very reasonable proposal, and if it does not do so, I trust that the Council of Ministers will vote unanimously to do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, are taxes only a means of generating income for the treasury, or can they also be used to serve other purposes of government policy?
This idea already met with resistance then from the Directorate-General dealing with tax cases and from a number of Member States.
It was in these that the Member States were allowed to apply the reduced rates of VAT.
However, it had to remain an experiment, limited in time.
In the Netherlands, the first evaluation report met with strong criticism, and a re-appraisal done at the request of parliament yielded many positive results.
I do not have the time to enter into the detail of this, but I think that you are familiar with those reports.
I should therefore like to urge the Commissioner once again to make a definite, formal proposal to extend the experiment, and to do so before the end of this month, and definitely before 1 January 2004.
After all, it is quite clear that there is wide support here in the European Parliament to include the experiment of Annex K in a structural insertion of these labour-intensive services in Annex H of the Directive.
This will receive our unqualified support and as long as that is not the case, the experiment must remain in force on a formal footing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a three-year experiment for the application of reduced rates of VAT on labour-intensive services is short, too short, in my view, and certainly too short if we factor in the economic climate that has seen more downward than upward movement over the past three years.
You too, Commissioner, know that in those circumstances, it is difficult to establish the longer-term effect of reduced VAT on employment.
The report provided by France also emphasised this.
We therefore believe that they must continue or at least, in the meantime, that the experiment must be continued for several years along the path demonstrated by the Ecofin Council of 25&#160;November, for example for six years, as our rapporteur has just proposed.
It also seems to us that in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity this subject should, without discussion, be the competence of the states alone.
I will supplement these assessments in my explanation of vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done on this report.
Charities face a lot of difficulties caused by the VAT system and the amendments relating to charities in the report, and indeed tabled by the PPE-DE Group, are essential in trying to mitigate those problems.
It is also vital that Parliament adopts the amendment to ensure that Member States can allow a reduced rate for repairs to listed buildings.
That is crucial, particularly for churches in the United Kingdom, many of which are listed.
It is also vital to preserve the existing zero rates in Member States.
I would strongly defend the United Kingdom's zero rates, particularly in relation to children's clothes and shoes.
The Council - and not the Commission - also established that the experiment should run for three years.
In fact, it lasted four years, since the Commission wanted more time to analyse the results.
The reports that the Commission has received from most Member States - including the Netherlands and France, where opinions differ - indicate that there is no noticeable positive effect on employment.
The reason is quite simple: in too few cases is the decrease in taxation passed on to the consumer.
In fact, I quote my wife, who said that she had never witnessed a reduction in hairdressers' prices.
It has no positive effect on employment, and if you want to stimulate employment, it is better to reduce the social on-costs of labour for the same amount of money.
The Commission sees no reason why it should make a proposal, and that is exactly why unanimity in the Council does not work.
I am scrupulous in respecting all the rules of the European Union.
The whole idea therefore originates from the Council.
It is around 20% in most countries.
As regards CDs, they are by their very nature easily transportable and, therefore, if the rates differ, there is a clear inevitability of a distortion of the internal market.
At the moment, no Member State applies the reduced rates to CDs and, therefore, if we did, it would again be a step backward.
I have said to the Council of Ministers that the Commission would not press charges or start infringement proceedings against those Member States that would continue to apply Annex K as if it were still in force - which it will not be.
The Commission is obliged to supply Parliament with a well-founded opinion, not just a general opinion containing snippets of information simply hinting that no tangible impact on reducing ‘black’ work can be identified.
Commissioner, there are economic research institutes which can undertake this study on your behalf.
According to the rules that were established four years ago, we rely on these reports.
The Commission has looked at them and has seen that there is insufficient evidence. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
