Explanations of vote in writing. (SV) We are choosing to support the compromise that has been put forward as it represents a clear improvement on the existing legislation on chemicals.
in writing. (SV) I abstained in today's vote on the second reading of REACH.
The principle of responsibility is not being included in the actual body of the legislative text but is instead being pushed out to the preamble.
Today's vote paves the way for REACH to enter into force at the beginning of the second half of 2007.
We abstained from the vote on the compromise arising from an agreement between the two largest groups in Parliament - the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in Parliament - because we feel that it does not meet the legitimate rights and concerns of the consumers and of small and medium-sized enterprises as regards protecting workers and the environment.
Furthermore, the report does not take proper account of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and even large companies that have already expressed a wish to replace dangerous chemicals, given that the cost of registering substances will inevitably rise, without suitable support provided.
The text submitted to today's vote puts an end to seven long years of work and heated debates between, on the one hand, supporters of the chemical industry, who have persisted in overusing arguments of competitiveness and employment in order to maintain the status quo, guaranteeing, as it does, their own financial interests, and, on the other hand, European officials, who were anxious to come up with responsible legislation aimed at protecting Europeans from the perils of the dangerous chemical substances found in staple goods.
Proof of this is the number of goods covered by the REACH regulation - only 30 000 out of the 100 000 desired.
Significant progress has been made, however, if we consider in particular the fact that only 3 000 substances are today being studied, and that it will be up to the chemical industry from now on to assume the burden of proof concerning the toxicity of substances, that is, to demonstrate that they are not harmful to humans.
In the end, thanks to the pugnacity of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament's rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, the European Union will have the world's most binding legislation on this matter.
That is why I emphatically endorsed the adoption of this text at second reading.
in writing. - (FR) I supported Mr Sacconi's compromise on REACH because it represents a big step forward for consumers, workers from the sector and even for the industry which, by adapting itself, is going to become the world leader in safer chemical substances.
We need to make sure that neither the Commission nor the Agency give way to a precautionary principle that prevents any risks and any decisions from being taken, and that REACH - which is, in any case, a process stretching over 11 years - is intelligently implemented, which amounts to saying that we need to limit what are, essentially, useless studies and cumbersome procedures.
We have voted against this majority compromise on the strength of the views set out above.
in writing. - (FR) REACH is an extremely important step in terms of the EU's chemical policy.
To have rejected the entire REACH legislation because of this regret would have been like throwing the baby out with the bathwater, and that would certainly not have led to better legislation in the short or medium term.
in writing. - (FR) This agreement on REACH will enable us to better protect health and the environment, and our European industry will have to become more responsible while remaining competitive in the world market.
This regulation is going to enable the European Chemicals Agency to register more than 30 000 chemical substances over the next 11 years.
The problem really lies in the importing of finished goods, the substances contained in which will simply be notified.
in writing. - (FR) I am not thrilled, and I would have preferred a different version of this text, which remains a real bureaucratic monster, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
While the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the left are strongly criticising me and are going as far as to claim that I am defending the chemical industry at the expense of public health, the chemical industry and, above all, the small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector are accusing us of imposing legislation on them that is costly and difficult to manage, which could lead to large businesses relocating outside Europe and which is liable, above all, to threaten the survival of SMEs.
Some chemical substances, like some of the 130 substances used in the manufacturing of tyres, might no longer be able to be used in Europe, with the result that they would be integrated into finished goods imported from third countries, thus escaping all checks.
An overly perfect REACH is therefore just as dangerous as an extreme REACH because it would be liable to do away with thousands of jobs in Europe without, for all that, helping to improve public health.
One advantage of REACH is that this regulation combines 40 existing directives, which is an improvement geared towards promoting the single market.
The agreement that has been reached strikes the right balance between economic interests and care for the environment.
Despite these considerable defects, I have voted in favour of the compromise, since it also bears the stamp of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the opinion of which I drafted, and on the grounds that the new directive creates Europe-wide legal certainty by replacing forty individual regulations, considerably improves information on 30 000 substances, and reduces to a minimum the safety risks for consumers and workers in the chemical industry.
Despite its barbarous name, it succeeded in finding an honourable solution to the issue of registering chemical substances, as regards both safeguarding consumers' health and protecting the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises.
I hope that the compromise reached last week will be approved by this Chamber, thus concluding the work done over three years to bring the 40 existing pieces of legislation together into a single regulation.
The complexity of the regulation means, amongst other things, that safety assessments will be carried out on about 30 000 substances placed on the marked before 1981 and produced or imported in amounts exceeding one tonne per year.
Despite the considerable number of new provisions, many application-related aspects have yet to be settled in order to make it feasible for REACH to be properly implemented in certain sectors, such as cosmetics, for instance.
A great many points have been the subject of debate, as shown by the hundreds of amendments examined, but the end result is, in my view, very well balanced.
Given that so much time has passed, it is essential we vote for a compromise, even if we may not support it in its entirety.
We therefore voted in favour of this report.
We sometimes waste time on issues that do not carry the same weight and significance as this one, and we are sometimes left without time to commit ourselves to what is most important to our economy.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the compromise reached with the Council on 30 November concerning REACH, following in the footsteps of the three large political groups (the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe).
Admittedly, this compromise is less ambitious than the one to which I aspired in taking a stand, at first reading, in favour of the compulsory substitution of 'extremely worrying' chemical substances where safer alternatives exist.
Nevertheless, as the fruit of three years of preparation and of difficult negotiations, this compromise represents a weak, but necessary, balance between the need for health and environmental protection and the competitiveness of businesses.
in writing. - (FR) We voted against the REACH regulation on chemical substances at first reading, in the belief that the adopted amendments would not make it possible to maintain the balance struck between the three objectives of this regulation: health and environmental protection; competitiveness and innovation; and the substitution of dangerous substances with less harmful or innocuous alternatives.
Also, a three-year review allows for the European Commission to consider whether legislative proposals covering this area could be useful to reduce further any need for such testing.
For the first time in many years, the EU had the opportunity to create legislation the usefulness of which would have been plain for all citizens to see: strict, complex, but at the same time concrete and always putting the health of all its residents first.
A sound REACH would have solved this and would, for example, make Flanders healthy in the medium term.
The proposal that has now been voted on does not do this.
This legislation is particularly important in relation to babies' health through breast-feeding.
In addition to this, REACH promotes both increased transparency in the case of, and alternatives to, animal testing.
I decided to vote in favour of the compromise amendment between the Council and Parliament mainly because this amendment is going to allow certain dangerous products to be controlled better, while making the chemical industry more competitive.
Some argue that it should have been better, and there is indeed a case for saying that a compromise such as this is not perfect.
However, a common set of rules on this important matter is better than a patchwork of perfect (but divergent) rules in some countries, half measures in others and no rules at all elsewhere - in what is supposed to be a common market with common rules.
This new proposal will plug significant gaps in our current knowledge about the chemicals available on the market and at the same time will seek to boost European industry and to offer greater protection to human health and the environment.
The Portuguese Social Democrat MEPs thus support the Sacconi report ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (FR) The members of Mouvement pour la France in the European Parliament have refused to support the compromise proposed for the vote at second reading on the draft directive on dangerous substances, the so-called REACH Directive.
Thus, the compromise text voted on this morning is very inadequate in terms of environmental and consumer protection.
I voted in favour of the Sacconi report on the amendment to Directive 67/548/EEC on dangerous substances (REACH), at second reading, because I feel that the common position adopted by the Council is a good agreement that will benefit the citizens of the European Union.
I feel that this is a well-balanced legislative proposal that has sought to strike a balance between safeguarding the industry's legitimate interests, and especially those of the SMEs, with the need to protect the environment and public health.
The REACH agreement will guarantee, as of June 2007, that substances that are extremely problematic from an environmental and public health perspective are substituted wherever possible by safe alternative substances or technologies.
I voted for the compromise amendments on this report and against all others.
I did so to avoid the REACH Directive going into conciliation where I felt it was far from certain to emerge as a piece of legislation.
Many of the amendments had much to commend them but they would have threatened the directive as a whole - as so often in politics the best would have been the enemy of the good. (DE) Mr President, the basic idea of ensuring that, in certain cases, materials that give a great deal of cause for concern are replaced by materials or technologies that are less hazardous, provided that economically suitable and technically feasible alternatives are available, is a good one, although, in doing this, particular attention needs to be given to this regulation's potential effects on small and medium-sized businesses and on the jobs they provide.
I have thoroughly considered all the arguments of the stakeholders and voted in favour of the compromise package, which bears the distinctive imprint of the European Parliament, since I am convinced that we need rules in order to know more about the thirty thousand chemical substances in the products that surround us in our everyday lives.
This is where the Member States, the Commission and the Chemicals Agency - which is now to be established - need to do something for businesses, and we, in this House, will certainly have to keep a watchful eye out to see that they do a proper job of it. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the draft regulation on dangerous substances, otherwise known as REACH.
However, I have a number of doubts as to whether the compromise achieved, following lengthy and difficult negotiations, will contribute to the protection of human health and the environment on the one hand, and to encouraging competition and innovation within the chemical industry in the European Union on the other.
The new regulations should also be applied to imports from third countries and so should be discussed at WTO level. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, REACH is in fact an example of how not to do it.
Much will now be dependent on the management of the new Chemicals Agency, but, whatever happens, things look set to get bureaucratic, with over 5 000 pages of rules and regulations putting Europe's small and medium-sized businesses in particular at a disadvantage.
The decision was made difficult by the fact that the Compromise 191 with which we were presented was preferable to the alternative that was already on the table, and, that being so, I have neither voted to adopt this poor compromise nor opted for outright rejection.
It must highlight best practice in this field, with the specific aim of integrating immigrants, and should do so by continuing the actions undertaken in 2007 during the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
in writing. (SV) The June List believes that the whole idea of a European Year of this or that is unnecessary and not something that EU taxpayers should fund.
To invest EUR 10 million in a European Year of Intercultural Dialogue would be quite reprehensible, and it is difficult and perhaps even impossible to see what would be the point of doing so.
They currently make up almost 54 per cent of all migrants.
It is my hope that these programmes will provide an opportunity to deal with all these problems and, as far as possible, to find solutions to them.
What is needed, therefore, is to assess properly the reasons behind the reduction in budgetary implementation and to not allow this necessary assessment - for example, of the impact of the nominal criteria enshrined in the Stability Pact on public investment in the Member States, and of the reduction in Member State contributions to the Community budget - to be used as a pretext for reducing the amount of money set aside every year in the Community budget for the Structural and Cohesion Funds. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to you, Mr President, for having given me the floor to explain the reasons for my vote on the Hieronymi report on television broadcasting activities, which I consider very important and well produced.
By voting for the report I was expressing my personal hope and that of all the pensioners in Italy and Europe that, in future, particular attention will be paid in television programming to the dignity and the involvement of the elderly in the world of culture.
It is very nice to see young people in television programmes, and it is also nice for the elderly to see so many attractive men and women, but I think it is important that the qualities of older people should also be aired on television.
in writing. (SV) We voted against the report on the proposal for a directive governing audiovisual media services.
Unlike the other Dutch Members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I am in favour of Amendments 170, 156 and 177, which aim to restrict advertising for unhealthy foods intended for children, and my arguments in favour of this position are as follows. 1.
Obese children have a bad start in life in terms of both their social and physical development.
Opinion polls (Food Centre) and surveys (in the Saturday 2 December edition of the Algemeen Dagblad) show that nearly half of all parents are in favour of restricting or banning aggressive advertising. 3.
Profits from advertising are not as high as they were, because the channels cannot guarantee audiences to those buying advertising, and everything in television is measured in audience figures.
in writing. (SV) The June List rejects the Commission's proposal.
The Council dealt with this matter in November, prior to first reading in the European Parliament now, in December.
Today's vote will undoubtedly lead to a deterioration in the quality of programmes in the EU.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the version of the directive on audiovisual services as amended by the rapporteur's compromise amendments because they make the directive viable and reasonable.
The country of origin principle firmly rooted in this directive is of the utmost importance.
As regards commercial breaks, I voted in favour of a 30-minute interval because this is realistic given the average length of television programmes in Europe.
Stricter restrictions on advertising, as proposed by the left of this Parliament, would have harmful consequences for European television productions and would lead to a significant loss of revenue for private channels, estimated at some EUR 200 million per year.
I also supported an amendment that allows a Member State to take action against a broadcaster who sets up in another Member State intentionally to get round national legislation.
I supported Amendment 170 in order to put down a marker that there is a need to control the issue of marketing of unhealthy foodstuffs to children.
On Amendment 169 relating to alcohol, I support calls for a ban on alcohol advertising until after 9 p.m., notwithstanding that in Ireland we do have a strong voluntary code in place.
A review of the first year of the code is due in March 2007 and this will assist us in making decisions about the effectiveness or otherwise of such codes.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of Mrs Hieronymi's excellent report on the revision of the European Television without Frontiers Directive with a view to integrating brilliant technological innovations into it.
Promoting cultural diversity and European values of tolerance also means standing in the way of incitement to hatred, whatever the means used to spread it: satellite television or the Internet.
Yet product placement of these products has been treated differently in this vote today.
Given the distress caused by alcohol in many families' lives across the EU, as well as related ill-health issues, I find this result unsatisfactory.
The text as approved contains good and bad elements.
The health of children in Europe must be one of our key concerns.
I decided to vote in favour of the Hieronymi report because it includes many advances in the area of television broadcasting.
I do, however, have two major criticisms to make of this report.
Furthermore, I regret the vote on Amendment 221 concerning derogations from the country of origin principle, which permits the Member States to adopt more detailed or stricter rules; this amendment is a danger to cultural diversity, a principle that the European Parliament has a duty to protect. (DE) Mr President, globalisation - which is what this is all about - is happening whether we want it to or not, and it goes hand in hand with the opening-up of markets, with international competition, with economic growth, with the creation of new jobs, but, unfortunately also with the loss of jobs in those sectors that are less competitive.
We see all the other measures - ranging from microloans to training - in a positive light - and the report as a whole therefore enjoys our support. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor for the second time on this important document by Mrs Bachelot, which quite rightly seeks to protect us citizens of Europe from the problems of globalisation.
That is to say that, in my view, it is important for us to realise that globalisation also means a single world, and so I tell the elderly that they must realise not only that they live in a national State, but also that they live in the world, and that in this world all elderly people, as well as all young people, need something.
The Commission estimates that between 35 000 and 50 000 workers could benefit from the Fund, but, by 2005 alone, the number of workers laid off as a result of restructuring had topped 570 000, most of the redundancies being due to relocations within the EU and consequently ineligible.
We therefore abstained from the final vote.
The Member States of the EU are capable of implementing national measures to support those sectors that they deem to be in need of financial assistance.
in writing. - (FR) With a maximum sum of EUR 500 million granted to it each year, this European Fund is intended to soften the blow of globalisation for employees affected by restructuring.
This is not a new form of aid for businesses, but extra assistance aimed at helping to find new jobs for employees who have been made redundant following changes in world trade.
The fund will be introduced on three conditions: there have been at least 1 000 redundancies; they have had a serious impact on employment and the local economy; and they are linked to a disruption in world trade.
in writing. - (FR) Unlike the rapporteur, I do not believe that globalisation is an opportunity for France and Europe.
The financial profits of multinationals are one thing; the economic and social profits in terms of employment and the protection of Europe's industrial fabric are quite something else.
The creation of a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, disguised as a desire to compensate for relocations, will be just another bureaucratic and demagogic tool.
in writing. - (FR) I am among those who believe that this Globalisation Adjustment Fund is totally superfluous, if not counterproductive: it is the prototype of a bad 'good idea', but once such an idea has been floated, it is difficult to stop it.
I know that any opposition to this fund may be interpreted as insensitivity to the negative effects of globalisation-related relocations.
The people on the receiving end are bound to be bitterly disappointed when the money - which amounts to a maximum of EUR 500 million per annum - runs out; if the EU awakens great hopes, but fails to do as it has promised, the result will be frustration among the public.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is a charity fund which pays out lump sums in a bid to disorientate and deceive the workers.
The criteria set by the regulation under which it is applied are so narrow that a minimal number of workers will be entitled to it, given that it is paid in areas in which, due to the relocation of companies, there are at least 1 000 redundancies from one company or at least 1 000 redundancies over a 6-month period (or 12-month period as proposed in the committee report), representing 1% of employment in the region.
in writing. - (FR) Europe is going to help the victims of company relocations.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the compromise governing the creation of a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
This fund, which amounts to EUR 500 million, will not serve to fund company restructuring but to help employees who have been made redundant, particularly in their efforts to re-enter the job market.
The EGF is an important instrument because it helps to show that the European Union takes full account of the social impact of globalisation and that it is not losing interest in the fate of employees.
It was in 2005, seeing the impact of liberalisation and competition on the textile and clothing sector, and more specifically on its employees, that the idea of such a fund was born.
in writing. (SV) I believe that the effects of globalisation on world development are good and have served us well.
Since phenomena such as mass dismissals as a result of closures, substantial restructuring within the sectors that are sensitive to globalisation, and smaller-scale collective redundancies as a result of structural changes to the world trade patterns all greatly impact on the local labour market, a European Fund for adjustment to globalisation is a good thing.
I am also glad that the Council and the Commission endorse the idea of microloans as an active labour market measure.
I voted in favour of Mrs Bachelot-Narquin's report because it provides an initial response to the legitimate worries of European workers.
The creation of a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGM) will provide an annual sum of EUR 500 million in aid to workers who have fallen victim to international restructuring, with the aim of getting them back to work.
I nevertheless welcome the proposal, and have indeed voted to adopt it, in view of the number-based approach taken to particulates in particular.
I voted for this document in the hope that in the near future there will also be a directive against government pollution because, unfortunately, even governments sometimes produce pollution that damages people's health and their environment.
in writing. (SV) We should like to have seen a tighter timetable for the introduction of Euro 5 and lower limits for nitrogen dioxide emissions in Euro 6.
The forthcoming Euro 6 standard will include restricted limits on emissions, in particular for nitrogen oxide, and, at the same time, will stimulate technological research for the automotive industry.
The adopted text also proposes a timetable for the application of these two standards that is demanding, but achievable, for the automotive sector.
I can understand why many Members of Parliament would support this, as it will extend the power of Parliament because the fund has economic and social objectives.
Also, I voted in error on Amendment 169 to the Hieronymi report.
in writing. (SV) Even though the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom are two of the richest countries in the world, there are good reasons to support the International Fund for Ireland.
Those Member States that wish to contribute to this fund can do so through decisions taken by their national parliaments.
In Europe, we consume bananas originating from three regions: up to around 850 000 tonnes of European bananas originating from the French West Indies, the Canaries and the Azores; bananas from the ACP countries and, finally, 'dollar' bananas, grown in Latin America, for the benefit of Chiquita and Dole.
in writing. (SV) We voted against Amendment 10.
I have therefore tabled an amendment with a view to leaving the decision to the Member States as to whether this should be a compulsory requirement, as the Commission proposed.
in writing. (SV) We have voted against this report because it is completely skewed towards the special interests of the EU's banana growers.
We are very disappointed by the rejection of the amendments that we tabled, which proposed firstly, a one-year transitional period for the regulation to enter into force and secondly that reference period for the calculation of aid date further back, from 2005 to 2004.
However, we cannot support the calls in this resolution for the implementation of the EU Constitution, the calls for a Common EU Immigration, Visa and Asylum Policy or the assertion that the EU has insufficient funds to deal with future challenges.
The Commission's proposed legislative programme for 2007 shows in stark relief how the lack of political leadership in many Member States is complicating matters for the EU.
We hope that 2007 will be a year in which Europe's political web is untangled, so that the notion does not become established that we have neither a mobilising project for Europe nor the political impetus to implement such a project.
I hope the Russian people are able to chart a safe course in this direction. (DE) Mr President, since our debate, which, regrettably, took place in the context of a mini-plenary, the situation in Russia has continued to get dramatically worse.
World public opinion will be watching President Putin vigilantly in the expectation that they will be.
What matters now is that integration be moved forward, so that real use may be made of every opportunity and that the European Union may remain stable.
The more countries that succeed in becoming part of Europe, the more peace we will have, not only in Europe but throughout the world.
Therefore, Mr President: 'European Union all over the world!' in writing. - (FR) No, the adoption of a Constitution and the creation of a centralised European superstate are not, under any circumstances, prerequisites for the enlargement of the European Union.
in writing. (SV) The June List is, in principle, positively disposed towards EU enlargement.
The rapporteur also talks of the EU's 'integration capacity' and believes that it must be made clear that this must in no way be confused with public perception of the impact of further enlargements.
This is a clear example of the contempt for the citizens that is endemic in this Parliament.
We have voted against this report in the light of the fact that it uses prospective enlargements as an argument for a future Constitution.
in writing. - (FR) The current enlargement strategy that consists in gathering together forty-odd Member States into one group will lead the Europe of Brussels to suffer the fate of Jean de la Fontaine's frog which, in its desire to make itself as big as an ox, bursts.
A year and a half on, we must acknowledge that our societies, our economy, our institutions and our mentalities have not completely accommodated the enlargement.
The importance of 1 May 2005 is too great for its initial impact to have dissipated in just 18 months.
We can do more and better so that this process settles down and accommodates.
Accommodation is social, political and economic, rather than primarily institutional.
British Conservatives have always been and remain strong supporters of EU enlargement as it provides a larger single market and a looser and more flexible Europe of nation states.
Therefore, we have abstained on this report.
The reaction to this by the federalists is to try and tighten their grip on the EU as a political project by trying to resuscitate the Constitution and to slow down future enlargement.
Enlargement so far has been a partial success, and, in the course of moving forward the integration process, we will use every opportunity to make the European Union more stable.
However, the UK Labour MEPs and others abstained on this report and several of its paragraphs on the grounds that, while we support most of the measures proposed, they are not all preconditions for enlargement.
According to recent studies, monthly data forwarded up to six months after the event are of limited use in day-to-day market management, whereas the compilation of annual data can be useful for medium- to long-term market studies and can help reduce the workload for the national authorities in forwarding data.
June List MEPs have therefore voted against this report in its entirety.
The report on the institutional aspects of the European Union's capacity to integrate new Member States confirms the constant determination of the political spokesmen of European capital in the European Parliament to resuscitate the reactionary European Constitution, which has been condemned by the people of Europe.
This is why I voted in favour of the report.
Let us look at our capacity to accept new Member States before each new round of enlargement.
