The point is thus to improve air quality.
More demanding limit values have been set for vehicles with petrol engines than for diesel vehicles, since it is easier and costs less to achieve lower emissions with petrol engines than is the case with diesel engines.
This fact is important if we want to persuade consumers to exchange their old cars, which do more damage to the environment, for cars which are more environmentally friendly, but also more expensive.
Secondly, the Commission welcomes the timetable for the introduction of Euro 5 and Euro 6.
Thirdly, I am pleased that it was possible to reach an agreement on access to vehicle repair and servicing information.
Fourthly, I believe that it is important that a consensus should be reached on the question of financial incentives, a package solution of two emissions stages, as with Euro 3 and 4 and now again with Euro 5 and 6.
It is deplorable that every year in Europe there are 370 000 premature deaths because of poor air quality.
The so-called Euro 6 step brings limit values that are ambitious and realistic.
The limit value for the mass of particulate emissions is being reduced from the Euro 4 value of 25 mg/km to 5 mg/km.
Compared to the Euro 4 emissions standard in force today, this corresponds to a reduction of 80%.
Furthermore, the particle count will be measured at the very latest when the Euro 6 step enters into force on 1 September 2014.
In this stage, the emission of nitrogen oxides will be lowered by 56%, from 180 mg/km to 80 mg/km.
As far as the time frame is concerned, I would like to point out that the Euro 5 step comes into force on 1 September 2009 for new types of vehicle and that the Euro 6 step applies from 1 September 2014.
In fact, however, Euro 5 and Euro 6 motor vehicles will be introduced more quickly, because thanks to this Regulation the Member States have the opportunity to promote vehicles with Euro 5 and Euro 6 emissions standards before the 1 September 2009 through tax incentives.
A look into the history books tells us that in 2001 for example, motor vehicles with the Euro 4 emissions standard were already available on the market, even though the Euro 4 emissions standard only entered into force on 1 January 2005.
Not only does Euro 5 ensure better air quality in Europe, but this Regulation and the compromise we have arrived at also improve the rights of manufacturers in Europe.
Thus consumers must now demonstrate the durability of pollution control devices over 160 000 km instead of 80 000 km.
Furthermore, in Chapter 3 of the Regulation the rights of consumers are protected, in so far as it is laid down that consumers may continue to seek out repair shops themselves.
Moreover I do not want to neglect to point out that this Euro 5 Regulation is a good example of the reduction of bureaucracy in Europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (NL) Mr President, with this directive - and I should also like to thank the rapporteur - we are obviously making considerable headway in the area of public health.
The Euro 5 Regulation will ensure two things in the future: firstly, that independent repair shops have unimpeded access to the repair information they need, and, secondly, ambitious emission limit values for modern passenger cars which will lead to better air quality.
This is an important step towards better air quality.
It is also right that the new Euro 6 limit values should be laid down even now, for that gives car manufacturers the security to plan ahead and to invest, thereby promoting innovation.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - (PL) Mr President, the Committee on Transport and Tourism produced a positive evaluation of the European Commission initiative concerning the proposed directive.
The report is balanced because it not only tackles air pollution at source but also takes into account the very legitimate concerns of a very successful European industry.
As previous speakers have outlined, the timetable that has been agreed is based on the package adopted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, Euro 5 and Euro 6 coming into force in 2009 and 2014 respectively.
I welcome the work done by my colleague Mrs Weisgerber on the access to repair information.
That is a controversial paragraph but we have also reached a very successful conclusion in that.
The limit values agreed for Euro 5 and Euro 6 steps are challenging but achievable standards.
The particulate limits are as tight as is feasible and will require the fitting of diesel particulate filters across the range of Euro 5 diesel passenger cars, and that will deliver major air quality benefits.
Tomorrow, we will be voting on the Euro 5 standards that ensure that diesel cars in particular become much cleaner.
The decision has been taken that there should be an agreement at first reading, which, as a procedure where backroom decisions are taken, is not very transparent.
This could be justified if we were in a great hurry, but we are not in the case of Euro 5, since the standards do not enter into effect until September 2009.
In addition, I regret the fact that Amendment 59, which allows Member States to take more sweeping measures, has not been included in the compromise package.
The close cooperation between the rapporteurs has decisively contributed to the fact that we have been able to achieve a good compromise and a consensus at first reading.
More than half of all the passenger cars in Europe only comply with the Euro 3 standard or less, and our goal must therefore be to completely renew all vehicles on the road.
The lack of ambition in this Euro 5 and Euro 6 Regulation culminates symbolically in this remarkably generous derogation for heavy SUVs.
I do not see why we should make a long term exception - lasting well into the next decade - precisely for such dirty, environmentally hazardous vehicles.
Actually, I drive an Audi Quattro.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, where the improvement of air quality is concerned, I should like to see a few swift steps made in the right direction; that is why an agreement at first reading on new emission standards for cars is to be welcomed.
The Euro 5 standards will not become effective until 2009 and even then, they will not apply to all types until 2011.
In the Netherlands, people wanted to introduce the Euro 5 standards early, but the Commission would not allow this, stating that this could distort the internal market.
This is why I have re-tabled Amendment 59 of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety in order to spell out the fact that Member States may take more far-reaching measures in order to achieve the air quality standards.
The Euro 5 standard will do a great deal to help further improve air quality.
In laying down harmonised rules for the manufacturing of motor vehicles with regard to their air emissions, the Euro 5 standard is part of a more general strategy aimed at dealing with the harmful effects of air pollution on people's health and the environment.
The timetable for applying the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards, with 2009 and 2014 respectively as the dates on which they will enter into force, is certainly demanding, but it is also manageable for the economic sector, and the introduction of a one-year extension for adopting the implementing measures will mean more flexibility for industry, which I welcome.
As for access to vehicle repair information, which is an issue for manufacturers and SMEs, I am pleased at last with the compromise reached on this subject as well as on the subject of recourse, in the first instance, to the OASIS standard.
I would like to congratulate, in particular, Matthias Groote, Anja Weisgerber and Martin Callanan on behalf of the PPE-DE.
For the same reason that we are now talking about Euro 5 and Euro 6 cars, while not just Euro 4, but mainly Euro 2 and Euro 3 cars are also still on our roads.
It is the only solution capable of resolving the ever more serious problem of managing air quality in our cities. (SK) In the Clean Air for Europe programme, the European Commission has identified several sectors as the biggest polluters of the environment.
Today we are establishing the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards that will set emission caps extremely low.
Perhaps the Strasbourg colleagues I see driving at 160 km per hour on the motorway might like to take note that the particulate emissions from a Euro 5 vehicle will be considerably higher than if one were to drive at 90 km per hour through the region with a Euro 0 vehicle.
When colleagues claim that the Americans or the Californians are a shining example, then I can only suggest that they should travel over there.
There the standard motor is an old V8 petrol motor, which consumes around 20 litres per 100 km.
By further developing the Euro standards, we have doubtless taken a decisive step in the context of European environmental policy, a step which is also tolerable to the automobile industry.
As has already been mentioned several times, the effects of the Euro standards are extraordinarily positive, so that non-European countries are already orienting themselves to our standards.
There I learned that, in 2007, China will introduce emissions values which correspond to the Euro 3 standard, thereby reducing emissions of pollutants by 30%.
All of those who are involved have accepted this compromise, and thanks to this being achieved, we can vote tomorrow on a balanced proposal on the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards.
In reality, only 8% of the cars on Europe's roads are replaced each year, so that it will take over 10 years for all of the cars on the roads to be replaced.
Thus, for example, it will probably be 2015 or 2016 before Euro 4 applies to all the vehicles on Europe's roads.
The debate is closed.
It is necessary to have sensible limit values for emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
