Mutual recognition of professional qualifications (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Malcolm Harbour, Andreas Schwab, Evelyne Gebhardt, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Heide Rühle, Adam Bielan and Kyriacos Triantaphyllides, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the transposition of Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications (O-0108/2009/rev.2 - B7-0217/2009).
The free movement of professionals and the Directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications are among the flagship issues that my committee is most concerned about in the whole construction of the single market.
It is very appropriate that we are discussing this question to the Commission this morning, which is essentially to ask for an update on the progress in transposing the revised directive that my committee worked on back in 2004-2005, and on how that is actually being implemented by the Member States.
It is also very timely because Professor Monti came to our committee on Monday to talk about his mission for the President of the Commission on the future direction of the internal market.
In the case of the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, as the text of our question quite clearly sets out, we already know that a significant number of problems in relation to recognition of professional qualifications are encountered by citizens across the European Union.
Just to pull all these things together in the context of the work of the Internal Market Committee over the next five years, I am delighted that, I think, all the coordinators of the committee are here today and I want to thank them for the work they have done, together with myself, on shaping the forward agenda for this committee.
These are the instruments that my committee can use and, if the coordinators agree, I am sure that we will be doing an own-initiative report sometime in 2010 to feed into this discussion that the Commission will have.
The transposition has constituted a challenge for Member States mainly because it affects more than 800 different professions.
However, the Solvit network has proven to be effective in solving many of these problems.
Moreover, the Internal Market Information System has also provided a medium for supporting more than 1 200 information exchanges for many of the regulated professions this year.
This has brought about enhancements in day-to-day administrative cooperation between Member States.
However, apart from the economic issues, it is also one of the fundamental freedoms of citizens to be able to exercise their profession and to fulfil their potential in another state, for example, when they marry or move to another country for some other reason.
For this reason, this is an ongoing task for the Commission and for Parliament, but also for the Member States, whose goodwill I would like to call on at this point.
Moving on to the matter in hand, ladies and gentlemen, this is all about the citizenship of the Union, about the people who have the right to move freely throughout the European Union and to practise their professions where they live and where they choose to work.
This also includes the free movement of professionals, which is a vital condition for ensuring that the internal market operates as efficiently as possible.
As has been mentioned in all the speeches made so far, in spite of the adoption of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in 2005, professionals wishing to exercise their right of free movement are still encountering numerous difficulties.
I have personally come across various cases of this type, which have been brought to my knowledge not only by Romanian citizens, but also by European citizens, relating to a variety of professions.
As has been mentioned so far, a significant proportion of the cases which Solvit has to resolve are linked to failures in the system for mutual recognition of professional qualifications.
Lastly, it would be desirable for the five Member States which have not yet completed transposition of the directive, or any state among the 22 which has done this but is still having problems with transposition or has transposed it inappropriately, to quickly rectify these situations.
On the one hand, it is always very easy to say that the Member States are responsible for the delay.
I would like to join with Mrs Gebhardt in asking what is happening about the European professional card.
I would like to ask what specific action the Commission has taken to help nurses from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, including those from Poland? (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Commission for presenting its opinion to us.
Not for reasons of mere formalism, but because this is a very important political question for the citizens of the European Union.
In this sense, the example of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is symbolic.
I hope that the European institutions and Member States will consider it seriously, given the fact that some national health care systems are almost drained of professionals and this will make it extremely difficult for us to provide basic health care service. (PL) Mr President, if we want our citizens to be mobile - and this is what the European economy needs - they have to be sure that when they gain their qualifications, for example, in Poland, they will not have problems with recognition of these qualifications in any Member State.
The 800 regulated professions of which Mr Samecki spoke, together with numerous regulations of these professions at national and regional level, are a considerable challenge for the administrations of the Member States.
Transposition of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications cannot be called a success, and so I will permit myself once again to appeal from this place for an intensification of work on both directives, because without them, we will not make progress with the internal market. (PT) Mr President, as we are all aware, 15 directives were consolidated into a single legislative act for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications.
The protectionism that rears its head at various levels is an obstacle not only to the free movement of persons but also to the internal market.
The Member States' disinterest in collaborating with each other is also reflected in the incoherent manner in which they perceive the internal market information system.
Mr President, firstly, my thanks to Mr Samecki for his good work.
The failure of Member States to get their act together in terms of the recognition of qualifications is costing us jobs.
I urge the Commission to identify and tackle the obstacles which are preventing the realisation of the single market in this instance. (NL) Mr President, I should like to pick out one aspect in this debate.
The free movement of professionals has already been adopted in Directive 2005/36/EC.
This situation must change.
It becomes particularly difficult when a particular country does not have a specific profession or that profession is organised differently, for example, physiotherapists or people with a PhD in business administration.
