&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 12&#160;February 2004.(1) &#160;&#160; By letter of 24 February 2004, the President of the Catalonian Parliament informed us that Mr Joan Colom i Naval has been appointed a member of the Catalonian Court of Auditors.
Mr Colom i Naval, I congratulate you on this appointment and, pursuant to Rule 8(4) of the Rules of Procedure, inform the House that Mr Colom i Naval's mandate as a Member of the European Parliament – in long and good standing, I might add – officially terminates tomorrow, 26 February 2004.
I welcome our new colleague and remind Members that credentials must be verified in line with the appropriate procedures.(1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just wanted to draw the attention of the House to a major seminar that has been held in Dublin over the last two days on the subject of HIV/AIDS.
I hope, too, Mr President, that as you were present in Dublin, we will see some continuity from that conference. &#160;&#160; The conference you mentioned, Mrs&#160;Banotti, adopted a declaration.
This decision by the Commission has provoked a furious reaction in the Port wine defined region, the oldest wine region in Europe, and will have a devastating impact on the legitimate interests of Port wine producers.
I think he made a fantastic contribution to this debate and issued an extremely necessary challenge to all the European peoples.
The speech is certainly being translated into the languages of the current 15 Member States and I will ensure it is also translated into the languages of the accession countries.
I would also like this statement to be forwarded to the Council, the Commission and the Member States.
This decision merged the two categories with which we protected our highest quality products into a single category indicating quality wines and introduced the possibility for third countries to produce wines using our designations&#160;–&#160;using equivalent requirements as the only point of reference.
Amongst other aspects, the Commission’s justification&#160;–&#160;which stresses how this decision was taken to aid talks within the World Trade Organisation&#160;–&#160;is extremely worrying, because we are continuing to open up Europe to products for which we cannot provide the consumers with guarantees. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to alert Parliament and the Commission to the earthquake that occurred late last night in the Atlas mountains in Morocco and which has caused a considerable number of deaths there.
The Commission is very good at providing humanitarian assistance via ECHO, and this is an instance in which we should move as fast as we can. &#160;&#160; I should add that, on behalf of Parliament, I am communicating with the authorities to ensure that they are aware of our expression of sympathy.
The process in hand is special as it is directed not only at the budgetary authority but also at the incoming Commission.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, 2005 will be the first full year with a Commission of 25&#160;members, a Union of 25&#160;Member&#160;States, a new Commission and a new Parliament.
It will therefore be the duty of this new Commission to begin to apply a political agenda consistent with its mandate.
I would, however, like to make it clear to you that the situation regarding these two issues is currently both critical and delicate, as she will explain in a few moments’ time.
The Commission’s proposal represents the minimum action necessary to ensure this institution will be able to shoulder its institutional responsibilities taking account of enlargement, and above all, of the new policies envisaged by the Union.
The adjustment was made in accordance with the decisions taken in Copenhagen and in line with the amendments introduced by your House.
The decisions taken in Copenhagen, as set down in the accession treaties, set out the financial commitments made to the new Member States.
In addition, the Council has made decisions concerning the augmentation of pre-accession aid for Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, which means that enlargement has left its unmistakeable stamp on the changes in the 2005 Budget in comparison with this year’s.
Whilst the enlargement of the EU is a great gain in political, economic and ecological terms, it also presents challenges to the new Member States, who must implement all the EU’s laws, and also to the Commission, which, as guardian of the treaties, must ensure that they do so, and that their integration over the coming years is successful.
Let me also take this opportunity to follow my fellow-Commissioner Mrs Loyola de Palacio in extending very warm thanks to the budgetary authority, and most especially to Parliament.
For 2005, the Financial Perspective plans a framework of EUR&#160;114 billion, with upper limits for the financial commitments that we are capable of taking on in internal and external policies, as well as in administrative expenditure, that are lower than provided for in the programmes; the reason for this is that prices have needed less adjustment because of exchange rate fluctuations.
We are at present reckoning on a financial commitment to Iraq still being needed in 2005, so we will again have to have recourse to the flexibility instrument if we are to be able to perform the tasks that the European Union has taken on.
As the Vice-President has already explained, the discussions on the 2005 Budget will relate to all institutions in the new framework or with changes in their composition.
It will be a new experience for the Council to adopt a Budget for 25 Member States.
I would therefore like to ask the Commissioners if they undertake to keep to the schedule the Budget Commissioner just outlined.
What this means is that there are more or less external factors that we have to take on board, and our consequent decisions have to respond to this reality.
I would see it as a very bad sign if, just before enlargement, we were to start questioning the decisions taken in Copenhagen.
Now that there has been talk at this tripartite summit of a super-Commissioner or Commission Vice-President with responsibilities for economic reform, do you not also think that, if there is to be such a person, he or she should primarily have responsibility for growth and employment, since we will find it difficult to advance the European ideal if we fail to prioritise these two things?
That is in the interests of all of us, as ‘business and growth’ and ‘stability and growth’ are the two sides of the same coin.
Something, though, that I regard as a very important area, and about which I would like to ask you a question, is security policy, involving judicial cooperation, security and freedom in an enlarged European Union.
In 2005, the new Member States will be able to draw on a total of EUR&#160;900 million from the European Social Fund, and I believe it important that we should ensure that some of this money is applied for this purpose.
I feel that there is some measure of caution that we need to exercise in whatever we do in Iraq, unless the security situation confirms that the funds we give for cooperation and development are secured and that we are not wasting the money because the situation becomes unstable and dangerous.
This at a time when the financial context is increasingly restrictive, when new reductions are envisaged in the size of the budget and when a policy of spending cuts and redistribution is pursued in order to fund these priorities.
The second axis – security – suggests that we should put in place border management and create a police force, in order to control migratory flows, in line with the interests of employers, and in so doing strengthen the trend towards security in the name of combating terrorism.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to brief Members of the European Parliament today on our plans for the spring European Council.
We intend to reserve the morning session of Friday, 26 March for our annual consideration of the Lisbon strategy of economic, social and environmental renewal.
The Parliament will already be aware, from the Taoiseach’s address on 14 January 2004, that in its presidency programme, Ireland is giving the highest priority to the implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
We have identified two overarching priorities for the spring European Council, namely sustainable growth and more and better jobs.
We are adopting a holistic approach to the issue of growth, recognising that we need to take action on a range of factors such as competitiveness, innovation, environmental sustainability and social inclusion if we are to make the European economy more dynamic.
We need to enhance competitiveness so that our economy can withstand global challenges.
We are all aware that the services sector has powered the EU economy over the past decade, providing a dynamic motor for growth that has accounted for 70% of the EU’s GDP and of its employment opportunities.
The Lisbon strategy explicitly recognised that for the EU to compete globally, it must make the transition to a knowledge-based economy in which leading-edge technology and expertise will provide crucial added value to EU products and services.
Indeed, as the Commission’s spring report has noted, the private sector contributes three times more investment in human capital in Japan and a staggering five times more in the US than in the EU.
As a first step in that process, we have proposed that the European Council should agree that Member States should consider targeted supports and incentives to encourage greater research and development investment by businesses.
Equally, if we are to increase the number of researchers undertaking the work necessary to enable our economy to grow, it is important to look at how we might retain our own researchers and attract researchers from other countries into the EU.
The Council looks forward, in this regard, to the continued cooperation of Parliament to ensure the early adoption of the forthcoming draft directive on the mobility of third country researchers.
I firmly believe that better regulation can enable the EU economy to grow significantly by achieving the right balance that will allow the interests of the public to be safeguarded while at the same time easing any unnecessary burdens on business.
The presidency has developed a joint initiative with the succeeding presidencies – the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the UK – aimed at giving priority, over the next two years, to the objective of better regulation.
Our second priority is that of more and better jobs.
We are proposing, consequently, that the European Council should agree that, within an overall employment strategy, Member States should give urgent attention to three structural challenges, namely adaptability, greater labour force participation and investment in human capital.
As you are aware, we set targets under the Lisbon strategy that female labour force participation should reach 60% and that the rate for older workers should increase to 50% by 2010.
Conscious of the importance of this issue, the Irish presidency is proposing that the right legal and financial incentives be put in place to retain older workers in the workforce.
The labour participation issue highlights the reality that implementation of the Lisbon strategy requires the commitment not just of national governments but of a range of actors including employers and trade unions.
The process of change is unavoidably difficult.
However, we can build a better future for the citizens of our Union, and of the enlarged Union.
Our work programme and the potential benefits for Lisbon are well encapsulated in the presidency theme that we have chosen.
The material adopted on 21&#160;January already contained the main political messages and key conclusions.
A recent Commission study confirms that the economic reform process launched in recent years contributed to the additional growth of Europe’s GDP by over half a percentage point between 1996 and 2001.
The internal market remains too fragmented and the transposition of directives still leaves a great deal to be desired.
They can and must draw on the potential for growth and medium- and long-term benefits resulting from the operation of an integrated economy without barriers.
Strengthening investment in this way will prove more effective if it is in line with an overall vision such as that generated by the projects included in the growth initiative.
The Commission’s recommendation concerning the 2004 update of the current Broad&#160;Guidelines on economic policy enabled Parliament to undertake an interesting study.
Once again, Mrs&#160;Randzio-Plath has cooperated in the analysis of the Lisbon strategy and in developing the policies contained in these Broad&#160;Guidelines.
The Commission certainly welcomes Parliament’s renewed endorsement of the main axes of the strategy on economic policy contained in the Broad&#160;Guidelines.
The current framework for coordination of economic policies is based on clear principles, stable prices and monetary conditions, and healthy public finances.
Our key challenge is to ensure effective economic governance.
But without high-quality education and training, it is illusory to imagine that we shall achieve our objectives in terms of growth, employment and social cohesion.
The fact is that our economic potential hinges on our human capital.
The spring report that the Commission adopted a month ago contains the observation that, despite some encouraging progress in a number of areas, the Union is still far short of the targets it has set itself.
Public investment in education, measured as a percentage of GDP, has made little or no headway and is even declining in some Member States.
Moreover, private investment in education, especially higher education, is far from adequate in Europe when judged against the standards set by our competitors.
Private-sector expenditure on education is four times as high in the United States and twice as high in Japan as it is here in Europe.
Indeed, without public and private investment in research, the economy of the Union will stagnate, deprived of its motive force, which is knowledge.
This 3% action plan comprises four main sets of measures: supporting the steps taken by European countries and stakeholders and ensuring that they are mutually consistent, considerably improving public support for research and technological innovation, increasing the levels of public funding for research and, lastly, improving the climate for research and technological innovation in Europe.
The success of this action plan will depend on resolute and concerted efforts on the part of the Member States and the private sector.
But we must face the fact that today’s investments are tomorrow’s growth, productivity and employment.
In addition, the Copenhagen Declaration of 2002 initiated the process of European cooperation in the field of vocational training.
This report identifies several priority areas for action.
The first of these is investment in human resources, where there is a need for more investment, but also wiser investment, and for the mobilisation of the private sector, particularly for investment in higher education and vocational training.
Finally, there is a need to nurture a real education and training culture in Europe, particularly through the creation of a European qualification structure.
The report also highlights the key role of universities in the knowledge-based society.
But before engaging in this debate, let us first concentrate on this project of ours and on our ambitions for the period beyond 2010.
As President Prodi emphasised in his address to this House, no European country can meet the challenges of globalisation on its own.
The same applies to the entire Lisbon strategy, including the fields of education and training.
The Bologna process, for example, would never have materialised without the Erasmus programme and without the growing demand among students for greater mobility.
Community action through programmes as well as through political cooperation therefore helps to achieve three fundamental objectives: to make the European construction process and European citizenship tangible and visible, to develop the European dimension of education and training and to support efforts to improve the quality of our education and training systems.
Our action at the European level is essential if we want to achieve our economic and social objectives.
In this context, in the month of March I shall be presenting to the College of Commissioners a communication on the new generation of programmes for the period from 2007 to 2013.
Given your track record in this field, however, I am already confident that I can count on your support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, today we are discussing our economy.
Making our economy the most dynamic in the world means ensuring that the triangle of the Commission, Parliament and the Council will enable the triangle of the economy, employment and the environment to develop in an effective and balanced manner.
We must show resolve in this domain in order to halt the steady widening in recent years of the gap between ourselves and the United States and to stop the departure of some of our best brains to other continents.
These efforts must not obscure the fact that the economic fabric of Europe is woven by our entrepreneurs and our numerous small- and medium-sized businesses.
The vitality of an economic area is also measured by the quality of its infrastructure, by the modernisation of its channels of communication and by the development of alternatives to road transport.
Recourse to the Structural Funds to finance investments in the infrastructure, in research and development and in innovation will be useful, and indeed essential, to every – and I do mean every – Member State of the European Union.
The creation of 15&#160;million jobs will truly depend on innovation, backed by new imaginative and dynamic policies based on private initiative in the framework of the Lisbon Agenda.
Where special efforts are really required is in the domain of minimum European standards with regard to labour legislation and the social security of permanently mobile workers, standards that will prevent any unfair competition based on low pay and poor working conditions.
The Commissioner mentioned this.
Your priorities for the Spring Summit have restated that commitment.
Any sustained economic recovery in Europe has to be built on job creation.
The only European social model that matters is the one that preserves our common prosperity for the future.
While my Group supports job creation and the return of older workers to the employment market, we had more in mind than consultancy positions for retired prime ministers.
The presidency has rightly identified the need for European governments to act more decisively, not only in Council but at home.
In many cases the commitments made in Council have been allowed to stall at the transposition stage.
The latest figures from the Commission show that last month 131 internal market directives – that is 8.5% of the total – have not been fully implemented in at least one Member State – in breach of their own deadlines!
The only decisions that have been approved are liberalisations and privatisations, measures that have reduced job security and increased attacks on public services.
In other words, this is the neo-liberal agenda of Europe’s employers, the agenda of the Union of Industrial and Employer’s Confederations in Europe, the agenda of the captains of industry, which has become the be-all and end-all of the EU’s economic and social policy.
Multinationals continue their relocations, which exacerbate unemployment and hamper development in many regions, as is currently happening in my country.
The hardest hit are women and young people.
There are three points I should like to emphasise which have not featured very often in this debate.
It therefore seems to me that any sweeping statements about the European economic situation need to be put into sharper focus.
And yet many analyses show us that these last two areas offer the greatest scope for job creation.
Finally, Mr Solbes, as regards prices policy or, to be more precise, the redirection of state aid and subsidies, Ecofin was supposed to present a five-year plan designed to phase out the subsidisation of environmentally harmful activities.
Lastly, in order to move the process forward, it would also be desirable to make use of European legislation on public procurement, which permits recourse to environmental technology.
We all too want to ensure that the EU does become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010.
Negotiations are taking place with regard to the financial perspectives of the EU for the period after 2006 and priority attention must be given to ensure that EU budgetary measures support initiatives to bring about sustainable growth and increased employment in accordance with the Lisbon strategy.
The financial services action plan must be implemented to ensure there will be an integrated financial service market in the EU by 2005.
A new Community patenting system must also be implemented within the EU.
The new eEurope 2005 programme must seek to introduce a greater level of broadband to schools and libraries so as to guarantee access to high speed internet services and increase skills development for all our young people.
That is why I support the implementation of the Lisbon strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this magical world of the European Union, we never let reality intrude on our dreams, and from one summit to the next we go on regaling each other with fascinating fairy tales, such as the Lisbon Strategy or the European Constitution.
In all aspects of the game, Commissioner – growth, employment, investment and competitiveness – Euroland is being outplayed by all the other economic and monetary areas, including Japan now.
As for you, Mr Solbes, it seems to me that you would do very well to use your few remaining months in office to put away your wooden sword, which has not served you very well, and to withdraw the action you brought against the Council before the European Court of Justice, which is essentially the sort of thing that could lead to a veritable war of secession in Europe.
So for pity’s sake, gentlemen, since we are coming to the end of this legislative term, open your eyes, rub the scales from them and face up to reality! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Solbes Mira, Commissioner Reding, I too am tired of always hearing the refrain or mantra of the Lisbon objectives.
We are discussing public budgets, we are discussing the role that European public administration and public administrations in individual States can play in promoting the economies of research and innovation.
If it does not have the courage to discuss this, in terms of the European Union’s budget, then it will be very difficult to make use of a lever as important as European expenditure – to benefit technological innovation and scientific research.
Finally, Mr&#160;President, Commissioner&#160;Solbes Mira, Commissioner Reding, I would like to focus on the issue of immigration.
Just a month ago the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Anna, came here to urge Europe to adopt a more open policy, first and foremost in the interest of Europe itself and its economy.
The Europe that closes in is not moving towards Lisbon but towards economic growth that is increasingly insignificant compared to the growth enjoyed by the United States and now also by Japan.
Europe is, however, choosing its own destiny. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ours is the enormous task of creating a new synthesis of the goals our society has set itself whilst at the same time remaining committed to the ideals that are characteristic of Europe and for which it is known.
I believe that this excuse should no longer be considered appropriate, firstly because we now have the investment initiative – even though it is quite modest and will certainly not have the effects that the Marshall Plan, with even less money, did in reconstructing Europe – and, secondly, because we are giving no thought to how better coordination by the Member States can recover lost revenue, not only through the fight against organised crime and the black economy, but also – and primarily – by combating tax evasion.
Although this year’s Spring Summit must indeed create confidence – which is what we demanded that the Thessaloniki Spring Summit should do – it must also make it clear that we, in Europe, can be seen to add value by all pulling together.
I believe this to be a challenge for this Spring Summit, and I very much hope that it will succeed in persuading governments that the action they have taken to date will not be enough to prepare us for the future, which is vital to all of us and to generations yet to come. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2003 the European Commission was obliged to revise its economic forecasts downwards for the third year running.
The rate of GDP growth in the euro zone in 2003 fell once again, from 3.5% in 2000 to 1.5% in 2001, 0.9% in 2002 and 0.5% in 2003, which means that the European economy was close to stagnation.
We have tried to answer this question because we realised that what happened when the Ecofin Council adopted its well-known position as regards the problems faced by France and Germany is that our Europe has different opinions and was divided on such a significant issue.
Nevertheless, I also believe that we cannot continue to treat an important problem, such as that of the Stability and Growth Pact, as a political issue.
There are large countries that have invested a great deal and which, in my opinion, also have the right, even the duty, to carry out structural reforms, for which appropriate deadlines are needed, for individual States to put their budgets in order.
The plan is to invest more in research and, above all, to launch a policy that solves the global problems of unemployment and that, with development, allows our young generations to hope fora secureand fruitful working relationship in Europe.
We believe that Parliament is an institution that should have a greater say in all types of analysis and economic forecasting.
In order to remain consistent, the European Parliament should, in future, play a leading role in major economic analysis forecasting and become involved in the valuable work that the Commission is already undertaking.
I would like to thank all those who cooperated and I hope that we can open a fruitful debate. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, looking around the Chamber, I get the feeling that it is not yet clear to some people – most of us, indeed – that meeting the Lisbon objectives, a policy for growth and employment, and hence the Spring Summit, rank alongside the constitution, enlargement, the European elections and the appointment of the Commission as the European Union’s most important policy area and the most important thing it has to deal with this year.
I have to tell Mr Della Vedova that this also applies to the agricultural budget.
Continually casting doubt on decisions already made, rather than implementing them, weakens us all.
But it is not enough for Europe to proclaim its ambitions; it must also equip itself with the means to achieve them.
And yet the unemployment rate in the United States currently stands at about six per cent of all active jobseekers.
Moreover, the country with the Statue of Liberty keeps 2.2 million adults of working age in captivity in its prisons.
The same applies to investments in infrastructure.
Europe will not become the world’s most competitive economy by jettisoning its social model or by getting rid of high-quality services of general interest.
At what has been termed the Berlin Summit between Chancellor Schröder, Prime Minister Blair and President Chirac, the three gentlemen proposed the creation of a new post of Deputy President of the Commission, popularly known as the post of super-Commissioner, with responsibility for coordinating all the issues relating to economic reforms of the EU.
Hopefully, we are not talking about more relaxed enforcement both of the rules governing state subsidies and of competition policy in general.
This, in fact, has been a recurring problem since the birth of economic and monetary union, in spite of all the proposals that have been made.
I may tell you, however, that such a proposal was carried by this Parliament back in 1996, following my report on public participation in the Union’s institutional system, but it was never implemented, and this Parliament has not pursued the matter.
The European Union must therefore create a wider range of incentives, particularly for the much-vaunted development of human capital, an effort that will undoubtedly require a high volume of resources which we are not mobilising at the present time.
As far as funding goes, it has been established that investments of general interest will not be made without an increase in Community resources.
At a time when the falling dollar is strangling our recovery, it is not actually enough for the Central Bank to effect a general cut in interest rates at the risk of deepening the liquidity trap – what is required is a genuine policy of differentiated credit conditions based on the Lisbon objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Spring Summit must be an opportunity to re-evaluate the Lisbon agenda with a greater emphasis on the environmental and social aspects of sustainable development.
This was agreed in Lisbon and in Gothenburg but is not being implemented.
The so-called big three meeting between Britain, France and Germany last week proved that, despite the leadership shown by the Irish presidency and the fact that many small states would be joining the EU in May – half of them smaller than Wales, the constituency that I represent – the big Member States still wanted to dictate the agenda.
Their focus is on economic reform and flexibility, to the detriment of quality employment, better pay and conditions, greater attention to caring needs, the sustainable use of resources and creating an inclusive society.
These issues have to be given priority at this Spring Summit if we are to achieve sustainability and quality in Europe in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should also like to thank both rapporteurs for their work on this very important issue.
One of the most difficult areas for any government or European institution to deal with is the very rapid change that is taking place in the global economic circumstances.
We need to ensure that our policies are flexible enough to be able to respond quickly to those difficulties and upsets.
I am delighted that the Irish presidency has highlighted the importance of continuing to implement the Lisbon agenda, and I hope that in the next social summit meeting, as well as at the March summit, those ideals will be ensconced into every Member State and that they will all move forward and move away from the old ideology of increasing taxes.
That is not only a failed policy; it has also been proved that those that have the highest tax levels within the European Union are the ones that have performed the 'least best' in the changing climate. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in five years, ten months and four days, we will be in 2010, the year by which, as agreed at Lisbon, the European Union should be the world's most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy.
In this joint debate, we are dealing with two reports about economic policy and public finances in the EMU and a resolution for the forthcoming Spring Summit.
Economic growth is moderate; the Member States are facing budgetary problems and the economy of the United States is currently growing faster than that of the European Union.
I can, in part, support the draft resolution tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
The objectives of the Lisbon process have been pitched too high and defined in an insufficiently clear manner.
If that is done, then we will not be bogged down in discussions on how things can be improved, but what is being said here today will also be put into practice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the reports for the Spring Summit of the European Council compel us to draw an overwhelming conclusion, which I shall summarise here.
At its Lisbon Summit in 2000, the Council formulated the aim that the European Union should become the most competitive economy in the world by 2010.
That we should be more resolute in pursuing our present policies, designed primarily to defragment the internal market, to support research and innovation and to increase investment in human capital as a matter of priority.
The large countries of the euro area are ailing, but their cure can only come from themselves.
Finally, it has been instrumental in allowing the entry of unskilled immigrants who do not meet the needs of our economy and who impose a heavy burden on our welfare budgets.
I can, therefore, confirm that Italy is a strong supporter of European unity, without any ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’, and&#160;–&#160;in my opinion&#160;–&#160;the single currency will benefit the European economy in the future.
The recovery of the economy which began in 2002 showed itself to be short-lived and it certainly did not trigger a sufficiently powerful trend towards economic growth.
Amongst other things, the European Union has seen an increase in unemployment and a gradual weakening of public finances.
On the basis of the examination of these problems, we must ask ourselves whether the rigidity of the Stability and Growth Pact might have had a negative effect on the growth in productivity and on the increase in employment.
We will then be happy if, they at least, are not in future included within the total expenditure that balances the budget deficit, which must remain below 3% of GDP.
Economic growth in a given area depends largely on the investments that have been planned and made and on the priorities that have been set.
This is all in a world which is already topsy-turvy in terms of international trade and the whole issue of security and so on.
The question is, are we ready to deal with all of these challenges?
I do not think the signs are good in that respect.
In relation to enlargement, we already see that virtually all states are running in panic to protect their labour markets.
Economics are fine, they are very important in terms of developing a single market, but they are a very narrow focus for creating a socially-inclusive and sustainable European society.
Our concern is that we have a lot of proposals, many of them very good, but we have virtually no joined-up government in the European Union.
We need to put social inclusion and social cohesion goals at the heart of our social protection policies when we are talking about reform of that area in the Lisbon process.
We must build a dynamic into the Lisbon process by ensuring that the Stability and Growth Pact actually provides for growth as well as stability, and the best way of doing that is to ensure that there are incentives to invest in what will drive the economy: well-trained, satisfied workers who have good jobs and provide the productivity that we need. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, when the Spring Summit takes place next month, it will be four years exactly since our European economic ambitions were laid down and welcomed in Lisbon.
It is abundantly clear where the problem lies: the Member States are not pro-active enough in order to make the European economy competitive and dynamic.
That alone can bring prosperity and a rise in employment, which is what the public so desperately need. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is interesting to hear this discussion because this House is in unusual agreement about the situation of the European economy.
It is a tone quite different to that we heard three or four years ago when there was a lot of optimism.
My own view is that a long-term growth policy is needed, with the emphasis upon infrastructure, the environment, technological development, the development of human capital and such matters as have been addressed by many of the speakers.
I believe that responsibility for this new policy must lie with the Member States.
The Member States must produce the growth package in the form of national policies based on large-scale public-private cooperation.
In my own country of Sweden, the strongest periods of growth have in general emerged from national ventures in which public policies have combined with trade and industry to succeed in creating especially favourable effects.
The connecting link that enables the whole thing to function, and allows us to develop the internal market, is the Stability and Growth Pact, and let me say here and now that I urge us all to adhere to it, including the Eurozone’s two biggest countries, Germany and France.
It is for the Member States to bring forward the reforms that are needed in the labour market, in the social field, in fiscal policy, in making locations attractive and in promoting forward-looking sectors of industry.
If we want to stake a claim on our place in the world, then this is where we have to move forward.
To take just one Member State as an example, Finland shows us very clearly how it is possible, even when times are hard, to succeed by investing in the future.
What this means is that Finland has done a great deal, even without the European Union.
So I would urge us in this House to keep on track in campaigning for the 3% expenditure on research and for the launching of an innovation strategy for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
I will conclude by urging Members to this House to be present at the Science Convention that we intend to organise in Brussels for early April, in order to make it clear that this strategy still enjoys support from this House, at least. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I deplore the fact that the report on public finances insists on supporting the Commission’s determination to comply, to the letter, with the provisions contained in the Stability Pact.
The country is deep in recession, with a reduction in GDP that might exceed 1% and the highest levels of unemployment in the EU, which is jeopardising not only economic convergence with the EU, but also, for the third year in succession, the very conditions needed for a swift and sustained recovery.
This policy, this Stability Pact must be amended.
We must first speak about a sustainable growth and employment pact so that we can respond to the EU’s economic and social problems. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too would like to refer first to aspects of research and development that can be the driving forces generating value for businesses.
We have to hold fast to our own objectives and carry on down this road. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to say something about the Spring Summit, which we can expect to be a sobering experience, and the ambitious process that we initiated at Lisbon four years ago.
Studies in the EU have revealed that too many young people have been poorly educated.
The enlargement of the EU in the coming months means that we have to be consistent in pressing on with joint measures in employment and social policy, of which the European employment strategy was, and still is, one of the most successful features.
I might add that the budgetary expenditure for these areas is minimal in comparison with the structural resources for enlargement.
The Commission’s insistence on increasing contributions and hence the burden on net contributors can therefore only be repudiated.
That deserves every political support, for the one thing needed by our businesses, by their workers as well as their managers, is guaranteed and long-term stability. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, contemplation of the economic situation in which the European Union finds itself leads us to the conclusion that the summit ahead of us has three main tasks.
Bad textbooks on economic policy are legion, but never yet have I found one so bad that it would recommend these courses of action in a phase of the economic cycle such as the one that we are now in.
The Commission was right to point out that legislation on the internal market must be introduced swiftly.
The Council and the Commission share these concerns and rightly insist on the importance of confirming a strategy for a knowledge-based economy.
The first question concerns the means of achieving a balance between the stability policy which manifests itself in the form of the single currency, and a policy of promoting research, innovation for small businesses and investments in TENs, which will enable the European regions to integrate.
The second question concerns how to address the globalisation of the markets that is challenging even the most modern businesses that have to compete with the US and Japan&#160;–&#160;that is to say the countries at the forefront of research&#160;–&#160;and traditional businesses that have to compete with China and economies that have low labour, social policy and environmental policy costs.
The third question concerns developing factors for competitiveness, which help to strengthen the Community’s presence in fundamental research, and also in industrial policy.
I believe that the political problem turns, in fact, on the ability to bring about the structural reforms and also to take the budgetary decisions that we believe are necessary to give Europe a future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Stability and Growth Pact that is under discussion, and I believe we have every cause to highlight the fact that we need this Pact for the sake of our future.
Advances have been made since European leaders declared that they were going to make Europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy within ten years, but there have also been a lot of steps back.
It seems to me that a fundamental aim of the Lisbon agenda is to produce economic reform and more flexible labour markets.
Labour markets are not made more flexible by measures like the Temporary Workers Directive, which could drive hundreds or thousands of temporary workers out of employment.
Of course it is important to ensure that people do not have to work excessive hours, but there are many aspects of the Working Time Directive that just add red tape and do not give proper protection to working people: these measures just make it more difficult for them to run their lives in the way they would like to.
I believe this diagnosis remains valid.
In my view, the growth initiative is an important factor in relaunching other aspects.
Our proposals for this year focus on those elements that can facilitate productivity and ensure it increases.
With regard to fiscal policy acting as a discretionary element to improve growth in the short term, it might indeed serve as such in some cases, at least in theory.
I therefore feel it is vital to tackle the problems related to the future of the pact.
In establishing its financial perspective, the Commission endeavoured to achieve a balance between on the one hand, not exceeding the current margin of manoeuvre, despite the additional commitments, whilst on the other hand, not increasing the current financial margin more than absolutely necessary.
I may not agree with all of the analysis, but I found the debate extraordinarily interesting and very constructive.
The strategy does not belong to the European institutions, but to the people of Europe.
There were many contributions throughout the debate about how we deal with the issue of creating a knowledge-based economy and I believe that Members were correct in pointing out that education is key, as is investment in research and development.
Researchers are the seed capital of a knowledge-based economy and the EU and its Member States must recognise this.
In conclusion I would like to thank each Member for their contributions to this very interesting and focused debate. &#160;&#160; We should like to thank the Council.
To conclude the statements on the follow-up to the Lisbon Strategy, I have received three motions for resolutions.(1) The debate is closed.
We must ensure that we coordinate our economic policies to a greater extent.
The European Union, if it is to remain competitive and if we are to reach the targets laid down by EU leaders concerning the implementation of the Lisbon strategy requires the enactment of a series of legislative measures at an EU level.
We should also ensure that we invest to a greater extent in research and development policies and this is one area where the European Union has been lacking when compared to the US in recent times.
I support the European Union becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010.
And we must all work towards this goal. &#160;&#160; . – The European Commission should compile a timetable for the Member States, specifying who is going to achieve what, when and how.
Replacing the current vague agreements with a timetable with exact objectives should help the Heads of Government find a way to invigorate the knowledge economy and make the European labour market more flexible.
This identifies sections and projects that have been taken into account as recipients of community funds that are currently available as well as credits from the European Investment Bank.
According to the Commission, therefore, what we have is merely an incomplete list of actions within the priority projects that the European Commission and the Member States have pointed out as being sufficiently advanced to allow them to be immediately started, thus stimulating the European economy.
In order to be taken forward they should be enshrined in a formal legal instrument – in this case, a decision of the Council and the European Parliament.
The Commission communication is a non-exhaustive list of actions within the priority projects which have been identified by the Commission and the Member States.
It is essential, therefore, that the EU’s institutions work together to bring forward this work.
We recognise that the European Parliament has a particularly important role to play in this process.
I would like to assure him and the House that the matter in focus is part of a bigger issue in which the Parliament and its talents will be fully engaged by the Irish presidency. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, that was not sufficient.
The Chairman of the Committee asked a specific question as to whether the Council agrees with the description of the ‘Quick Start’ list as, in essence, a personal list drawn up by the Council, but as not binding upon Parliament.
You embarked on a major statement about why the ‘Quick Start’ list is necessary, but you did not address the way in which this ‘Quick Start’ list gives the impression – which your speech, in my view, reinforces – that you want Parliament to be kept out of decisions about which projects are to have priority.
So I will again ask you to state unambiguously whether the ‘Quick Start’ list is binding in law, and if so, on whom; or whether you have attempted to use it to circumvent Parliament’s and the Council’s right of joint decision on the priority projects.
For my part, and on behalf of my group, I can tell you that we will not let this pass.
We will not allow the Council to use a so-called ‘Quick Start’ list as a means of unilaterally disregarding Parliament’s rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this oral question has at least one thing to be said for it, inasmuch as what was a phantom dossier has now become clearly visible, since the Council has just confirmed that what we have been reading in the press, what we have heard whispers about from the Council, and what, in some cases, certain Commissioners have been saying, does in fact exist.
I therefore welcome the fact that there is, after all, a method for implementing the TEN projects.
What I sure about, however, since it was I, together with a number of other Members, who called for it is that we must have regular information about the implementation of the thirty TEN projects which we shall be voting in favour of.
The new Member States already participate in the TEN programme.
Unfortunately, the Quick Start projects are an example of this.
In Slovakia, for example, a motorway project designed to link Katowice to Zilina and not in any way complying with our standards was approved.
The project was approved even though there is no justification for it whatsoever in terms of economics or traffic conditions.
We must ensure that the controls are effective and uniform in all the Member States.
This is not a good time, therefore, to overlook Parliament’s power to approve, in conjunction with the Council, the vital question of the Trans-European transport networks.
I refer to the projects linking Oporto, Vigo and El Ferrol; Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña, Vigo, Orense, Valladolid and Aquitaine; and El Ferrol and Bilbao.
All of these are contained in plans drawn up by the Portuguese and Spanish Governments, in this case the Galicia plan.
In some countries, scarcely more than 20% of the public say they are interested in these elections, and in virtually none of them do over 50%.
We are not prepared to play along with this charade of disinformation; we are not prepared to do so as a matter of principle, and we are certainly not prepared to do so with 13 June in the offing.
I really do think that this House has, over the past months, shown itself to be responsible, in that not even in the run-up to an election does it add on one project after another indiscriminately.
It would be a good thing if the President-in-Office’s ambivalent answer today could become a clear and unequivocal statement to the effect that the Council does indeed acknowledge Parliament’s power of codecision, because this House demonstrates a high degree of responsibility and comes up with a few extra ideas for these important investment projects.
After all, the Council and its Presidency ought to have an interest in getting a few more good ideas, and you will get them from this House’s Committee on Transport. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I certainly agree with promoting a European growth initiative.
I believe all these priority projects should have an equal chance of access to Community aid.
To conclude this debate, I have received one motion for a resolution.(1) The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to emphasise the need to give a determined boost to the priority TEN projects.
In November 2003, the UN General Assembly unanimously adopted a resolution to build a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal.
This is the European Year of Education through Sport, and in this context we can, and should, convey the fact that sport has a key role to play in the process.
We want the EU and its Member States to shoulder this responsibility and take advantage of the common sense prevailing during, and hopefully after, the Olympic Games.
The European Council of December 2003 expressed its support for the idea of an Olympic truce and welcomed the relevant resolution which was agreed unanimously by the United Nations General Assembly.
It is in fact no coincidence that 2004 is both the year of the Olympics and the European Year of Education through Sport.
The Council recalls to the Parliament that the educational values of sport were already acknowledged by the Nice European Council in December 2000, thus confirming previous declarations, particularly Declaration 29 attached to the Amsterdam Treaty.
The Council's resolution of 17 December 1999 also presented sporting activities as having a pedagogical value which contributes to the strengthening of civil society.
One of the aims of the European Year of Education through Sport, as set out in the European Parliament and Council decision of February 2003, is to take advantage of the values conveyed through sport to develop knowledge and skill, particularly amongst young people.
Sport allows young people in particular not only to develop physical prowess and readiness for physical effort, but also provides social skills such as team work, solidarity, tolerance and, of course, fair play.
However, at its meeting of 29 January 2004 to launch the European Year of Education through Sport, the troika of education and sports ministers stressed the importance of the Olympic truce.
I fully support them, however, and I also fully support the idea that this Parliament should back the Olympic truce.
There have been Olympic truces every two years, for the summer games and for the winter games, for many years, and at the end of last year the United Nations adopted a resolution urging its Member States to observe the Olympic truce.
In the world of sport there are games and competitions.
In the real world there are armed forces.
In the world of sport we have referees.
Over 400 famous people in the world have signed the text of the Olympic truce.
The Olympic Games, which return this year to the country in which they were born and to Europe, are a global reference point and, together with the message which emerges from the sporting performances, can send the message of the culture of peace.
Peace and dialogue are two objectives which the European Parliament has always supported.
The exceptional feature of the budget year 2005 is that it will be the first full budgetary year for the European Union of 25 Member States, the first full year of activity for the newly-elected European Parliament, the newly-appointed Commission, and the first full year of implementation of the new Staff Regulations.
In view of the delays in recruitment procedures, a thorough assessment will be made of the situation in view of the 2005 budget.
A key question for the 2005 budgetary procedure will continue to be the administrative reforms of the institutions.
That brings me to Parliament (Section I), where several uncertainties relating to the drawing up of Parliament's budget for 2005 need to be considered, such as the current lack of agreement on a Members’ Statute, the actual outcome of the enlargement-related recruitments in 2004, and developments of several building projects.
At this stage, therefore, we reserve our position regarding the limit of 20% of the expenditure under heading 5.
As far as the financing of the European Political Parties is concerned, I think we agree that this expenditure should in principle remain outside Parliament’s self-imposed ceiling of 20% of heading 5 as it is not an administrative expenditure of the institution but an operational one.
In view of the delays in recruitment procedures for staff from the new Member States and difficulties encountered in recruiting especially linguistic staff from certain new Member States, we consider that a decision on making appropriations available for additional enlargement-related staff can only be taken at the first reading of the 2005 budget.
A mid-term plan for building projects is necessary in order to define the level of Parliament's budget in 2005 in view of possible capital injections needed to pursue the property policy.
Moving on to Council (Section II), the Council is asked to consider presenting its estimates with the Preliminary Draft Budget instead of its first reading to increase transparency.
With regard to the Court of Auditors (Section V), we mention that the Court of Auditors has distributed its enlargement-related staff increase over the 2004 and 2005 budgets.
I believe it is going to be a very fortunate and beneficial year for everybody since the Secretaries of the various institutions are going to have to reconcile enlargement and its administrative requirements with the restriction we are going to be faced with next year of the reduction of EUR 140 million in heading 5.
Our group, Mr Kuckelkorn, believes it is perfectly possible to remain next year within the 20% limit for the European Parliament’s budget, particularly after the Council, as a result of the opposition, above all, of the German Government, has blocked the reform of the Members’ Statute.
Our group has presented and defended amendments in the Committee on Budgets in particular on the issue of multilingualism and its implementation.
Furthermore, with this compromise, with this amendment from the Greens, we would prevent the budgetary restriction of heading 5 from jeopardising the functioning of the political parties during next September, as they themselves warn, which may be faced with serious operating problems of an administrative nature if this transfer does not take place.
The fact that this year we shall have ten new Member States and the same number of new official languages makes it all the more rigorous.
The issue of Parliament’s multilingualism is an enormous challenge.
It calls for a new kind of flexibility in the areas of translation and interpreting.
This could lead to a situation where all of Parliament is dependent on one interpreter who is translating from a less common official language into a more common one.
When the European Parliament itself voted in favour of reviewing its own salary and travel expenses system, it was a big step in the right direction.
Germany, France, Austria and Sweden are now to blame for the justified criticism that the public make of the flaws in the pay and expenses system used in respect of Members of the European Parliament.
The Council wants pan-European political party support for the European Parliament’s budget, whilst Parliament would like it for the Commission’s budget.
Parliament must aim to keep increases in expenditure under tight control. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this budget for the first calendar year with 25 Member States in the European Union really will be a test of strength.
Our group emphasises the huge importance of multilingualism in this House.
Democracy in diversity is the core task of this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the procedure of voting without debate, applied to the Haug report on the Communities’ own resources, deprives us of a joint discussion, using this report, on the budget guidelines for 2005.
The fact remains that the Haug report and the Kuckelkorn report have one thing in common which deserves attention and which also deserves a much wider debate than we are allowed here.
Later, however, in the report we are concerned with here, we read that, for its own budget, Parliament reserves its position on the 20% increase limit which it imposed upon itself for administrative expenditure.
There is nothing surprising in that; promises have to be funded and resources are not inexhaustible.
I look to the rapporteurs and the Commission to explain how it is possible to increase the European budget without increasing the tax burden on taxpayers except by reducing the national budgets.
If the majority accepts this principle of ‘communicating vessels’, governments and finance ministers will have to make it clear to the public which policies and measures funded from the national budget will bear the cost, in a context which is already one of rigour, and of which the Commission claims to be the guardian, inasmuch as it takes action against those States which do not comply with the stability pact. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
A dynamic society must offer its new generation prospects and security, both in terms of material things and social acceptance and in terms of a sense of cohesion.
I think that the Commission, the Council and Parliament are all on the right path here.
We need to integrate the 75&#160;million young people between 15 and 25 in a European Union that will soon include 25 Member States, by bringing young people and youth organisations into the political arena.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and through my work in connection with this White Paper, I have followed the discussions that have taken place over the last couple of years and listened closely to what young Europeans have had to tell us.
We have succeeded in boosting youth policy among young people, youth organisations, non-governmental organisations, political representatives in the EU and the Member States.
Youth programmes are already allowing hundreds of thousands of young people to meet and these, together with the thousands of voluntary work projects, lead towards social skills and a European outlook.
If we want to make Europe the most competitive, knowledge-based economic area in the world, we must make every effort to ensure that no young people are excluded.
Regional cooperation, culture and sport all serve as a bridge to help overcome prejudices and solve the problems of tomorrow.
In November 2003, the Council stipulated some common objectives.
Under the motto ‘overcoming exclusion’ we are now starting to work on the ‘Youth’ action programme and in other new areas and are trying to ensure that they are equipped with sufficient financial resources both to meet the growing demands of globalisation and to create spaces in which young people can concern themselves with future European policy.
With the broad synergy that we have achieved between the Commission, Parliament, the political groups and even Member States, we should succeed not only in speaking to young people but also in integrating them.
Moreover, it was young people themselves who identified these two priority areas as the key elements in any future policy to be pursued both at European Union level and at Member State and regional level.
With this in mind, we are preparing proposals for action lines concerning voluntary activities which, as you have quite rightly said, are one of the preferred ways in which young people can become involved and assume their responsibilities as citizens.
Personally, I believe that the creation of a real European voluntary service, with a critical mass and therefore with visibility, will give new impetus to our youth policies.
In this sense, the new financial perspectives are the ideal framework in which to find an answer to our questions.
This political communication which I am currently preparing is due to be submitted to the European Parliament before the elections, if all goes according to plan.
I believe that participation and information for young people is an issue of the utmost importance and I have always said, since I joined this Parliament, that it is the young who are important, not those of us who are not so young, because they are the future of Europe and it is in them that we must invest and apply all our efforts.
I have a lot of contact with young people and I truly believe that they are much more receptive than adults or the elderly.
You are all perfectly aware that 2004 is the European year of education through sport and, although it is directed at all European citizens, it is in particular directed at young people.
To do so we need greater cooperation between youth organisations and public authorities.
The Commission’s communication on objectives relating to the participation of the young and providing them with information is an important step forward in the strengthening of cooperation at EU level in youth policy.
I, for my part, also want to thank the Commission for the work it has done for young people.
Now we have to ensure that support for the involvement of these organisations continues and that the results of their work are also visible in the Community’s youth policy.
The rapporteur’s call for young people being encouraged to take part in the first European elections of the enlarged EU is of primary importance.
The young are avid Internet users and voting this way could draw more young people to the ballot box.
The future youth programme will make it easier for young people to come into contact with one another and therefore help overcome prejudice.
The Member States of the EU, both the current and the future ones, must provide opportunities for building contacts between young people from the predominant population and those from national minorities.
Europe cannot afford to let nationalism and xenophobia grow. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to stress the importance of the renewed attention being paid in this parliamentary term to the 75&#160;million people aged between 15 and 25, who from 1&#160;May, will be part of the enlarged Europe.
They therefore have rights and duties, some of which are different to those pertaining to other citizens and some are similar.
On the basis of exhaustive and extensive research, the Gröner report proposes a commitment that is also a challenge: to increase the participation and information of young people in politics.
The information that we must manage and provide for them must be clear and specific.
Achieving the participation that we are hoping for will not be easy, but learning to participate and learning to provide information is the best approach to developing the awareness of active citizenship that not all adults are putting into practice.
If we agree that those who do not have a past do not have a future, then the only choice we have is to pass on the founding values of our past to young people, who are our future.
We are totally in favour of the European Youth Week because it also symbolises the priority commitment that is being given to a new drive for European youth that can count on several assets, such as intercultural learning, environmental protection, sport and art, to give just a few examples.
We are redoubling our efforts as adults on social exclusion and xenophobia because it is not words but practical deeds and actions that have the greatest educational impact.
Thus, working on young people and for young people also becomes a way to work on ourselves and we should thank young people for this opportunity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to join with other speakers in congratulating the rapporteur on her work.
As per the title of the Commission's White Paper on the topic, youth policy can certainly be given a new impetus.
I am pleased that the Irish presidency has also taken up the challenge contained in the White Paper and that youth issues form an important element of the presidency priorities.
Colleagues are all aware that in a few short months the citizens of Europe will have an opportunity to cast their votes in the elections for the European Parliament.
Recent surveys of public opinion and interest in the elections are, I have to say, disturbing, particularly the low numbers of young people who say they intend to vote.
After the ten new countries join, the number of young people between the ages of 15 and 25 will rise to 75 million.
The rapporteur identifies participation and information as key areas for development in the context of EU youth policy.
These are both key in the European elections, and we as public representatives have a vital role to play in informing young people about Europe and what it is doing for them, and encouraging them to make their voice heard.
In each of our Member States we need to take a hard look at ways of improving the active participation of young people in political life.
I have never had three minutes’ speaking time, and now I&#160;–&#160;the representative of the Italian Pensioners’ Party&#160;–&#160;have been given this length of time to speak on a report that concerns young people.
I support and agree with the report on the participation and information of young people.
A short while ago, however, when I was listening to my fellow Members speaking about the reports on the budget and other subjects&#160;–&#160;I do apologise&#160;–&#160;but I nodded off.
In 45 years of working for the elderly, I have heard them say many times&#160;–&#160;and I regret this&#160;–&#160;that growing old is terrible.
As a result, I am sure that the European Parliament has not just thought about young people but also about elderly people and has prepared several different reports and communications for them.
This would not be possible if we thought that old people were better at talking about old people than young people are, and vice versa.
I therefore call on the Commission to make every effort to ensure that Europe continues to help young people and draw them closer to Europe so that they are also in a position where they have more say in matters concerning men and women of all ages. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It is, additionally, an essential requirement of any Western European-style representative democracy, a factor in eliminating inequality and an increasingly important factor for progress and development.
Culture must, therefore, constitute one of the most solid platforms supporting a Europe of the citizens.
It is no longer possible, as Jean Monnet would have wished, to make culture the starting point, which could be a contentious notion at a time when we are concerned primarily with the priorities of economic intervention.
In this context, politicians must give serious attention to issues of access to culture and of constructing a European worldview, an image capable of incorporating differences into its procedures, whilst ensuring that these differences are respected and valued, in a pluralistic, tolerant and dynamic way.
They must offer citizens a major opportunity for access to culture and must inculcate, in everyone who attends school, from the earliest ages onwards, respect, enthusiasm and a taste for cultural expression that can help citizens to reflect on what it means to be part of Europe’s rich panoply of civilisation and culture.
The steps that can be taken towards this end are many and varied and, as far as we are concerned, must begin with specific elements of school life.
This report, in which many suggestions from members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport of every political hue were taken on board, has this very aim: to express the desire, on behalf of Parliament, that we should meet this challenge, because if we do not, European integration will make little sense and will not be worthy of the name.
I am very happy to see, Mr President, that as always Parliament not only supports what the Commission is doing but also adds to the new ideas being developed by the Commission, thereby helping it to forge ahead.
You are right in saying that we cannot build Europe solely on the basis of the economy and finance.
I agree with you in recognising that education systems ought to guarantee that, by the time they complete their secondary education, students possess the knowledge and skills which are necessary for them to prepare to assume their roles as citizens in Europe.
It referred to the Comenius programme, which links together schools in the European Union, so as to enable young people to participate in joint projects, thereby learning about the cultures of neighbouring countries.
Well, despite the fact that two million students took part in this programme, that represents only one per cent of the population of our schools.
In this context, our cultural programmes prove to be valuable instruments for making Europeans aware of cultural diversity.
Once again, however, this is not enough to reach all our citizens, or even the great majority of them.
I would also ask you to remember the first major pan-European cultural event, Cinedays, the aim of which was above all to teach young people about cultural diversity through the cinema.
In saying that, I am thinking about the Culture 2000 Programme and the RESEO project, which brings together the educational services of the major European opera companies with one aim in mind, to enable children and young people to discover opera through its cultural roots.
Yes, these things exist, but there must be a willingness at national level to make them an obligatory component of history syllabuses and of cultural education.
I should also like to take this opportunity to announce that an initiative has been launched with a view to carrying out a major study to produce an inventory of best practices in bringing together culture and education in Member States, candidate countries and third countries in the European Economic Area.
We are making progress, even though we know that that progress is very limited.
Mr Graça Moura, you will understand, in these circumstances, that your report comes just at the right moment and is grist to our mill inasmuch as it gives us ideas, it supports our actions, and it points us in the right direction, which will be very useful at a time when, as you know, education and culture are increasingly regarded as major elements in the construction of European citizenship.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a big thank you to Parliament and to its rapporteur, for this important contribution towards the future of our young citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have three minutes to make a speech about the importance of culture for our children and the future of the education systems across the European Union.
Of course a part of culture is national, but as the rapporteur points out, we have many identities; we have a local and a regional identity and indeed a European identity.
As you rightly pointed out though, Commissioner, there is a large gap between the theory that we have before us and the practice in European schools.
In order to close this gap, we need to be more aware that in our changing and complex times, schools play a crucial role in creating cultural openness.
The Swedes were however willing to engage in a cultural dialogue with school pupils from my country.
Today however, it is quite normal for there to be a mixture of different nationalities and this represents a great opportunity for intercultural dialogue and for conveying values such as respect for others and equality in spite of differences.
Commissioner, you pointed out that families have a part to play here, and this is also something that I have taken up.
Education can play a significant role in this and make the parents, and with them the children, aware of what culture has to offer.
In addition, access to culture is important.
Ideally, parents should adopt the role of guides, but schools can also play an important role in this.
It is also vital that children have the opportunity to know what surrounds them, both at local and at regional level, at national level and at European level.
It would be very positive if this could be a common subject in all the schools in all the Member States, and also if we could promote student exchanges more so that what they learn they learn .
We often say in my country that a picture is worth more than a thousand words.
I think it is very important to teach culture in schools if we want young people to be aware of and confident about their identity, and capable of becoming active European citizens.
We cannot ignore the fact that European culture and cultural history form the foundation of the common economic area and that we therefore need to invest much more in education than we are presently doing.
Although in Sweden expenditure is 7% and in Austria 5.75%, these figures are both declining.
I wonder what the culture ministers and government officials are thinking when they lend their support to the goals set in Lisbon and at the same time reduce the means for implementing them.
To advocate common learning in schools at a time when nationalist arguments are increasing seems to me to be courageous and worthy of our gratitude.
We in this House argue that education for an integrated Europe does not end simply with the euro or other common economic aspects, but that it must be the result of a sense of belonging, of a common project which must be based on history, on knowing who we are, what our common foundations are and, above all, where the principles and values of our times are to be found and what the thinking behind the united Europe we are moving towards is.
I have tabled an amendment calling for an active policy in favour of re-evaluating our common cultural heritage.
Likewise, I have called for there to be information signs in museums in more than one language of the Union, in several languages of the Union.
To put it another way: we are the result of a constant exchange of ideas, of models of life, of solutions and concepts which allow us to say that Europe has been preparing for centuries to be Europe.
Municipal life, the concept of human dignity, of individual rights, of people’s freedom, of the family is the principal social nucleus and of municipalities as the broadest framework of rights and co-existence, solidarity, the concept of the State, they are all European concepts, as well as the concept of secularity.
Let us offer young people the opportunity to know all of it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, although education in the Union is the responsibility of the Member States, there are many channels in the European Union for the support of cultural education in schools.
The main ones are the multiannual programmes, such as Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci and Culture 2000.
The learning of languages, something which is closely tied to cultural skills, has an important role to play in Union policy.
I am pleased that the rapporteur highlights the importance of knowledge of European history and cultural heritage in his report.
Culture, education and research occupy a central position in the Commission proposal in the financial frameworks for the period 2007-2013.
Investment in these is crucial to success in the context of the Lisbon Strategy, but culture and education have a broader function than just economic success.
I hope that the objectives set in the report are duly taken into consideration when the Commission is drafting new multiannual programmes relating to culture, education and youth exchange schemes.
I am also very pleased about the effective cooperation between the Parliament and the Council, which makes a first reading agreement possible.
A prompt adoption of this regulation should enable the Community to ratify the Stockholm Convention at the time of its entry into force in May 2004.
Furthermore, the regulation will allow those Member States which have not yet ratified the Convention to do so promptly.
Most importantly, the regulation will ensure that the European Union as a whole can meet its international obligations relating to persistent organic pollutants.
Most of these substances are known carcinogens, or are otherwise toxic.
However, I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament to an important issue raised in the draft report, namely the legal basis of the regulation.
The Commission is proposing that the regulation be based on Article 175(1) – environment – and Article 95(1) – internal market.
While the Commission can otherwise fully support the compromise reached between the rapporteur and the Council, the Commission cannot accept the change of the legal basis.
The legal basis as proposed by the Commission is justified by the fact that the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 in the proposed regulation – concerning production, the placing on the market and use of intentionally produced POPs – are relevant to the functioning of the internal market.
Finally, I also wish to thank the Commission which, despite the disagreement concerning the legal basis, has done a very constructive and valuable piece of work in order to get matters in order.
We shall vote in three blocks, and I hope that Parliament will adopt the first block straight away, thereby making the second block superfluous, and finally vote in favour of the third block.
One of the most important things in the report and the agreement is that we have succeeded in amending the legal basis, so that we now refer to protection of the environment and human health instead of protection of the internal market, which were the terms in which the Commission’s original proposal was couched.
This is an important victory for Parliament on this issue in particular, but also in more general terms, since there is an ever increasing tendency for the Commission to deal with environmental proposals in terms of the internal market.
We have, however, made clear references to, for example, the Rio declaration and the precautionary principle, as Parliament wished.
We have drawn up provisions stating that all stocks containing POPs must be destroyed and treated as waste.
It was our wish that it should not be possible to extend it automatically, and I think that Parliament must send a clear signal to the Council of Ministers and industry, since Parliament listened to the Council’s arguments.
We listened to arguments from industry in this area, and now we also think that industry and the Council of Ministers – that is to say, the ministers in the Member States – must show themselves to be responsible.
The aim is, after all, for the exemptions not to be extended when they are reviewed in 2009.
It is up to the Council, industry and Parliament to follow up this matter.
Instead, we have now agreed that they will be set in 2005 and we shall ensure that a high level of protection is afforded in this area too.
We have emphasised that something must be done to involve the population in the implementation of the POP rules.
Perhaps it is fortunate that I only have time to say something about the successes, but I hope and believe that Parliament will adopt this proposal with a large majority.
Thank you, therefore, for your constructive cooperation on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make an initial reference to the issue of the legal basis of this report and to the debate it has given rise to.
I sincerely believe that it would not be the best approach to confront internal market interests and the interests of environmental protection or the health of the citizen's.
That is why, although I am not completely in agreement with her in terms of emphasising environmental aspects over everything else, and I believe we should achieve the balance which is what we in the European Union and the Member States are really advocating, I do believe that it is a good piece of work, I do believe that she has had difficulties reaching agreements on issues such as waste or the specific exemption of the manufacture of dicofol, a substance accepted under very specific restrictions, in an industrial process which is also very specific and which is carried out in a manner which is confined and absolutely isolated from the environment.
With regard to Annex II, which lists substances which can be used subject to restrictions, I believe it has been right to maintain the structure of this Annex – I know that the rapporteur was not in favour of this – but I believe that, although at the moment it does not list any specific substance, it does leave the door open to future substances which may emerge and which both the Commission and Parliament, through its approval, believe should be used, produced or marketed under certain restrictions.
Finally, I believe we should stress what I mentioned earlier: compatibility is important and we must never lose the reference of sustainable development with its three aspects: economy, environment and employment.
With that reference I believe that Europe and the Member States can go far. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when I arrived in Brussels this morning, I found I had received a letter from the World Nature Fund, saying that I should soon receive the results of the blood tests I took a few months ago, designed to ascertain which chemicals we have in our blood.
This test will probably show that, in common with everyone else, I have a majority of quite foreign chemicals in my blood, and some of them will probably also be such persistent organic pollutants as we are debating today.
The fact is that we know relatively little about what this means for our health and fitness, but we know enough to be concerned.
We have been presented with a series of alarming reports to the effect that different chemicals produce diseases and that they can, for example, affect our ability to have children.
The fact is that this compromise that has been negotiated is a significant improvement upon the proposal presented by the Commission.
I think that the Commission’s tendency to treat environmental issues more and more as issues concerning the internal market is very unfortunate.
From an ecological point of view, it is quite irresponsible to proceed in this way.
I also think that the core of the proposal – the clear ban on production, use and marketing – is very important.
This reminds us that the EU’s chemicals policy does not in practice work.
We know that it is a very small portion of the chemicals on the market that really have been tested and whose effects are really known to us.
A small part of chemicals policy is covered by this proposal, and we now need efficient, uniform chemicals legislation within the framework of the REACH system for the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals.
I think this work shows that it is only right to take proper decisions when it comes to issues concerning chemicals, and it indicates the way ahead prior to the discussion of REACH.
The objective must be to put a complete stop to the discharges of persistent organic pollutants by banning their production, use and import.
We must therefore go further and, in a number of cases, much further than is indicated both by the Stockholm Convention and by the Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long Range Transboundary Air Pollution.
I am often very surprised at how difficult it is for the Commission, the Council and perhaps sometimes also Parliament’s more conservative sector to get things through in relation to protecting people’s health and the environment and at the fact that there are repeated delays, postponements and hold-ups.
In this area, the precautionary principle must apply fully, meaning too that new substances must be included on the list for banning or controlling these substances.
The legal basis must be Article&#160;175 of the Treaty establishing the European Community because these decisions are being taken in order to protect people’s health and the environment.
The fact has also been discussed from Chester onwards that it is because we cannot otherwise protect public health and the environment that we must take sound decisions in terms of a comprehensive and overall view of chemicals legislation.
POPs are substances that put the public and the environment at risk, and so we should treat them with care.
This is what we did in the past, in respect of similar treaties such as those of Rotterdam and Basle, and so we should be consistent in this.
The recommendation by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market also supports the choice of Article 175.
I would therefore ask the Commission to set to work in this matter.
It was a difficult issue, and one that she has brought to a successful conclusion, in close cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, persistent organic pollutants – POPs – are chemical substances that persist in the environment, accumulate through the food chain and pose a risk to human health and the environment.
The overall compromise package for this first reading agreement with the European Parliament was approved at Coreper on 13 February, and then by all political groups.
POPs waste, like all hazardous waste in my own country, Ireland, is exported mainly to Germany.
Under the requirements of the Stockholm Convention there are two principal methods for the treatment of POPs waste, namely destruction or irreversible transformation.
A third option, which applies to POPs waste generally, has also been agreed upon in negotiations between Parliament and the Council.
They accumulate through the food chain and they pose a risk not just to the environment but also to human health, causing adverse human health effects.
The European Community and all the Member States have signed the Protocol to the regional UNECE Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution on POPs, in 1998, and the global Stockholm Convention on POPs in 2001.
There was no warning in relation to what the effects would be, and as has been pointed out, little is known about what the long-term true effects are, despite the fact that these POPs have been found in our bodies.
I am also very glad to hear that the Irish presidency has been very constructive on this issue and in trying to help to get this package through, and that is also to be welcomed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commission’s proposal really needs tightening up, and toxic POPs should have been gone from our everyday lives long ago.
I therefore wish to submit it in relation to the debate on the Commission’s proposal on chemicals, known as the REACH programme.
I am sure that the day we label conventional milk ‘milk with pesticides’, there will be a decisive shift in consumer demand in favour of the organic alternatives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the PSE Group I thank the rapporteur for her work and also the presidency for its cooperation.
This has been very a useful exercise in achieving a second reading agreement on an important proposal, one which is tackling a persistent, organic and very long-standing problem.
On the issue of POPs waste, we have come to a pragmatic realisation of the difficulties of completely abolishing waste containing POPs and we think that the appropriate proposal here will meet with the inevitable residual problems that we find with POPs being in waste and in other places.
We must find a way in which we can ensure, for example, that whilst POPs are outside the REACH Proposal, chemicals that contain POPs or might produce POPs as a residue are inside the proposal.
The PSE Group will be voting for this proposal tomorrow.
The Commission can fully support the compromise package negotiated between Council and Parliament.
The adoption of this compromise package will enable the Community and the Member States to ratify the Stockholm Convention in good time and a resolute majority tomorrow will send a very clear signal.
The fact that these bans or restrictions are introduced in order to protect human health or the environment does not mean that these provisions cannot be adopted on the basis of Article 95.
Article 95(3) states clearly that the Commission may propose legislation concerning health or environmental protection based on Article 95(1) if these measures have any impact on the functioning of the internal market.
Especially in regard to the high-content POPs waste, the Commission points out that permanent storage or other operations can only be allowed if destruction of the POP content is not the environmentally-preferable option.
Moreover, the modified provisions lay down additional conditions and a procedure to ensure that the derogation is not misused.
In the light of unfair competition from Korean shipyards and the failure of Korea to implement the provisions of the Agreed Minutes relating to world shipbuilding, signed by the EU and Korea on 22 June 2000, the Commission adopted a twin-track strategy to tackle these unfair practices in the shipbuilding sector.
In any case, the support mechanism was to expire on 31 March 2004, the expected date of conclusion of the WTO proceedings.
I am delighted that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs called for the adoption of the proposal without amendments.
As rapporteur for Parliament’s statement on the original regulation, it is fairly clear to me that I asked the Commission for a guarantee that this arrangement would only be temporary.
