I particularly support the explicit reference contained in the Council Statement - presented on Monday - to Article 30 of the TRIPS Agreement.
The ALDE Group is ready to give its assent because it believes that a 'no' would send out a negative signal to the countries most in need, and would be irresponsible on the part of the European Union given that the reopening of the WTO negotiations is unrealistic.
I have seen in this debate an opportunity for the Commission to clarify its position on a number of issues.
The European Community will then join the other WTO members which have already accepted the TRIPS agreement.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the Council is not represented in our debate this evening because for once it is our main contact.
The atmosphere here is euphoric, everyone is in agreement and tomorrow we are going to vote - by a crushing majority, I think - for the ratification of this amendment to the TRIPS agreement, which is supposed to provide and should provide better access to medicines for countries that are not sufficiently developed and do not have a pharmaceutical industry that allows them this access.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during our last debate in July on access to medicines, I concluded my comments by calling on the Council and the Commission to make clear and formal commitments that would guarantee Europe's active involvement in finding new solutions and its desire to be a front runner in the fight for access to affordable medicines for everyone.
The mechanism created is indeed only a limited solution to the problem of inadequate access to medicines in poor countries.
The EU must help developing countries find a long-term solution in terms of obtaining the most essential medicines at affordable price, and must stimulate investment in local production facilities.
Mr President, as it happens, 14 years ago I was involved in the issue of intellectual rights in the Polish Parliament, as chairman of a special subcommittee.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has been called upon to express an opinion on whether the amendment to the WTO agreements on intellectual property - the 'TRIPS Agreements' - can be made permanent, as this would represent a swift solution to the problem of access to medicines by developing countries.
Each day 27 000 people die because of a lack of access to basic medicines.
However, I would also like to thank the Commissioner for expressly pointing out that this accord, this Protocol, which we will vote on tomorrow and which Member States will then be able to ratify, is only a building block - an important one, but only a building block - and that there are many more steps to be taken to give developing countries with no manufacturing capacities in the pharmaceutical sector a real opportunity, which they need, to provide their citizens with essential medicines.
