Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am happy to have the opportunity today to address you in plenary session on the proposal for a regulation on origin marking.
I particularly recall your resolution of July 2006 and the written declaration of September 2007.
The Commission suggests now to include only those goods that consumers can find in retail stores.
However, the European Union, in spite of the 2005 proposal for a regulation, which was broadly supported by consumers, by categories of civil society, still lacks a definition, in spite of the favourable opinion expressed many times by Parliament.
Lastly, Commissioner, while I thank you in any case for what you have done with great energy and determination, can you confirm to me what you wrote in your reply to my question on 5 November 2009, namely that the Commission will continue strongly to support the adoption of the proposal submitted in 2005 and that it will continue to honour its commitment?
I agree with my colleagues that we should adopt the 2005 approach to origin marking.
In order to meet this objective, we need something very simple but crucial: transparency, a concept that underpins the rules on origin marking, which were already approved by Parliament in 2006 and which, as the Commissioner mentioned earlier, are already largely in use in the main world markets, such as the United States, Mexico and China.
However, the horse-trading prior to the decision on the free trade agreement with Korea has resulted in us debating this proposal once again, and this is an inappropriate way to deal with this type of proposal.
The third myth is that the marking increases European competitiveness.
In my time as a Commissioner, I have been very conscious of talking with Member States about the issues that they are most concerned with and have tried to react when I could see an issue of importance.
I will come on to what I think and why I think that is so important.
What I tried to do while I was talking to Member States about all of these aspects of trade was to pick up, either by the work I had been doing - and specifically, talking to small businesses across Europe, where I have a great concern that they should have real opportunities so that more than 3% of them will start trading beyond the European Union - issues that are either left over - things that we have not resolved one way or the other - or indeed where countries feel particularly strongly.
It is about the level playing field.
It is about clarity and transparency for consumers.
It is about saying that we need to move forward.
Very finally, I was asked specifically about the question of 'made in the European Union'.
