the provision of Air Navigation Services in the Single European Sky [COM(2001) 564 - C5-0482/2001 - 2001/0235(COD)] 2.
on the organisation and use of the airspace in the Single European Sky [COM(2001) 564 - C5-0483/2001 - 2001/0236(COD)] 3.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to deal with a legislative package aimed at establishing the Single European Sky.
The main objective of all these measures is simply to respond to the problem of congestion in European airspace without reducing its safety, but rather increasing it.
Once again we must remember that that is our main concern and priority, above all following the tragic accident of Überlingen - where regrettably a number of people were killed - and which left us with the feeling that it should have, and could have, been prevented.
Our intention is to introduce a harmonised regulatory framework which governs the management of air traffic in the European Union, thereby facilitating better management of the airspace and improving safety.
I would point out that the Single Sky was one of the initiatives that President Prodi announced during his investiture debate as a political priority for a Europe which is close to the citizens.
I would like to express my satisfaction with the support the competent committee has lent by studying these proposals here in Parliament and, once again, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its cooperation and work.
I agree that it is necessary to establish good cooperation between the Community and this organisation and, in fact, the technical negotiations for the Community's membership of Eurocontrol have already been completed.
As the honourable Members know very well, the signing of the official agreement on the protocol for the Community's joining Eurocontrol is scheduled for one month's time, simply as a result of a problem with parliamentary agreement in one of the countries of the Union.
It is not therefore necessary to specify in the Regulation the methods for technical assistance for this organisation, since we are going to be part of it.
The same is true of the amendments which request obligatory consultations.
The Commission does not question the principle of consultation with business and social operators, but it wants this principle to be applied while respecting its right to initiative.
With regard to the nature of the air traffic services, the legislative package has been carefully worded to reconcile the demands of public interest with the need to support the dynamic of the sector.
While recognising the inherent characteristics of these services, we cannot ignore their economic impact on the direct and indirect costs they imply.
Therefore the Commission cannot accept, and rejects, Amendments Nos 12 and 13 of Mr Fava's report.
I share the view that the cooperation between the civil and military sectors is a key factor for the success of the Single European Sky and, in fact, our legislative proposals are intended to create the conditions necessary to stimulate that cooperation.
But Amendments Nos 57 and 59 go further than we are allowed under the current distribution of competences and therefore the first pillar.
Amendments Nos 14 and 51 introduce appeal mechanisms which are already provided for within national procedures.
The Commission had presented a proposal on this issue in 1997, which had not been able to be approved until today because of the argument over the Gibraltar airport.
The proposal now presented to Parliament includes the provisions of the common position which the Council had approved previously, as well as the amendments approved by the European Parliament at second reading.
Amendment No 14 does not seem to us to be necessary, since the Commission's proposal specifies that all complaints are admissible, and Amendment No 15 would give the aircraft inspection authorities considerable additional work and anyway the practical usefulness of the supplementary information requested seems to us be doubtful to say the least.
Finally, Amendment No 17 is outside the scope of the inspections covered by the Directive and would contradict the principles of the Chicago Convention, and we must therefore reject it.
Mr President, Commissioner, Council representatives, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal for a regulation is a response to the report by the High Level Group on the Single European Sky.
We are also quite familiar with the priorities and principal objectives of this important regulation: firstly, to ensure better use of airspace, which means bringing down the costs, improving management with a view to reducing delays and increasing the system's capacity, and, in particular, to significantly improving the level of safety, which is our top priority.
I would start by mentioning that a Single Sky is being achieved thanks to the unambiguous support of the European Parliament, which it had already declared in a resolution in July 2000, and thanks to the support of the governments of all the countries.
The first was mentioned by the Commissioner and concerns cooperation with Eurocontrol.
We do, however, feel that it is useful to emphasise it, particularly after the long wait we have had before our accession to Eurocontrol and the ratification of the Convention by the Member States.
Our report and the Commission's regulation follow two lines: we call for very close cooperation between civil and military air navigation service providers and we consider that military authorities should be represented on the Single Sky Committee.
The question of enforcing respect for the Single Sky rules through effective, proportionate, dissuasive penalties, as Parliament had already requested, is a sensitive issue.
In our opinion, it is essential that we do this to ensure that the Single Sky becomes more than just a list of good intentions and has genuine legal certainty for all the countries of the European Union.
Amendment No 36, which we are retabling, provides for the creation of a Sectoral Dialogue Committee on all measures with social implications taken to implement this regulation.
I will conclude, Mr President, by expressing informed optimism regarding the results achieved in recent years.
With the Single Sky, we are, at last, in a position to remove the borders in the sky as well as on the ground, and we are certainly taking a step towards fuller, more tangible European citizenship.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite recent, tragic events, flying remains an extremely safe form of transport.
This is the imperative force underlying the present Single Sky proposal. 'Safety first' appeared to be the motto of my fellow MEPs, because 24 of the 79 amendments were adopted immediately and these all concerned safety.
The Single Sky, the European Sky, is in my opinion certainly no privatisation via the backdoor.
It remains up to the relevant Member States to determine whether air traffic management services in the new cross-border functional airspace blocks are provided by the public or the private sector.
I can nevertheless reassure my fellow MEPs, for a large number of Member States are convinced that these services must remain in the public sector.
In fact, the Danish transport committee recently stated in our committee that Danish air traffic control should remain in the public sector.
Furthermore, it does not reflect the current situation in many Member States.
However, in order to accomplish flexible use of the airspace, the military airspace users must be involved in the daily decision-making processes in the Single Sky committee.
We in Parliament must guarantee that the Member States comply with this and this is why, Commissioner, my amendments go further.
In this respect, I have great difficulty with Amendment No 40, because, thinking it through logically, it prohibits military involvement in the Single Sky committee.
My third and final point concerns the role and position of Eurocontrol.
Hence our amendments and our intense pressure to have these adopted.
I also think that it should play a key role where technical support is concerned, but that is where its remit should end.
If, for example, we had to make the Single Sky Charting system entirely compatible with that of Eurocontrol, it would be impossible to develop a system of incentives.
Moreover, Eurocontrol is not only a regulatory body but also a service provider, which means that we are creating a serious conflict of interest.
This is why I have proposed Amendments Nos 81 and 82 and have asked, on behalf of my group, for a split vote on Amendment No 51, so as to establish a better balance of power between Eurocontrol and the Single Sky decision-making process in this way.
With Johannesburg at the back of our minds, I should like to say that the Single European Sky will also be of tremendous value for the sustainable development of our environment.
It is in these terms that our explanatory documents once again underline the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive.
Safety in the aviation sector has never been so relevant.
In the run-up to the momentous anniversary of 11 September, safety in aviation is of primary concern to the majority of users.
The Commission has already re-opened the procedure for issuing a directive on the safety of third-country aircraft.
The need for a Community safety policy, however, is, in my view, beyond dispute.
Specific elements in our report relate to the fact that people living in the vicinity of airports can lodge complaints about aircraft safety and that they can also obtain information about the lack of safety of some aircraft that fly into their local airports.
Since the events of 11 September, we must take more account of the safety of those living in the vicinity of airports and approach routes.
Well today, at the outset, we are returning to a star issue: the attempt to create the Single Sky; the attempt to harmonise the technical standards; an increase in safety; an increase in the capacity of our airspace.
I would like to point out that the Transport Committee and, of course, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which I represent, have been urging and pressurising the European Commission to adopt this type of measure.
Safeguarding military interests - strengthening the coordination and cooperation between civil and military authorities - increasing air safety, harmonising technical standards, creating the Single Sky committee, increasing the role of Eurocontrol through cooperation between the European Commission and Eurocontrol in the manner proposed and discussed by the Vice-President.
I also wish to thank the Commissioner, who has indeed invested a great deal of commitment in this project, and I do believe that, without her sustained efforts, we might well not have reached the point we have come to today, of being able to complete the first reading of a project of this sort.
This freedom on the ground must actually have originated in the heavens, as it seems far less problematic to set down borders in the sky than to remove them on earth.
It is the fact that the present position is simply unsatisfactory that prompted our desire for a Single Sky.
The fact is that, as well as the fragmentation represented by the 41 zones in the sky, Europe is fragmented in the field of technology.
So I ask you to vote for these projects by a large majority.
There are obviously so many pressing problems that Spain and Great Britain have given up their decades-old blockade in the Council.
The Single Sky project has a significance in terms of European airspace comparable to that of the introduction of the euro for the European economic and monetary area.
Only last Thursday, I spent the morning at the Roissy air traffic control centre and the afternoon at Athis-Mons, which is Europe's third largest air traffic control centre after Maastricht and London.
From this experience, I have come to believe that - in spite of the fact that the rapporteurs and the Commission have taken a number of points into account - what is being proposed today still presents serious dangers.
I also feel it is very positive to include an amendment specifying that each Member State is free to appoint a public or private entity as its operator or operators, although I do believe that air navigation services represent a service of general interest and that competition rules cannot apply to them, as the European Court of Justice has in fact ruled.
All the amendments proposed by my group, which clearly ruled out introducing competition in the air navigation sector, were rejected in committee.
The current system is far from perfect.
No reform of the air traffic control system will succeed without the help of air traffic controllers who are responsible for maintaining high safety standards in Europe.
In addition, it was possible to bridge the gap - a very considerable gap between the extraordinary growth in air traffic in recent years and improving traffic flow - due to the increase in air traffic controllers' productivity, not to mention the significant investment made to upgrade equipment.
The search for standards that everyone in Europe can apply is an essential goal for the Union and, from this point of view, the European Commission can certainly play an extremely important role in providing harmonious organisation and effective control.
Although the proposal for a regulation treats safety as a priority, I believe that all the proposals seeking to place the regulation on an economic basis run counter to this affirmation.
It is true that there is a link between safety, capacity and costs, but to purport to establish high safety standards by taking the economic question of cost as a priority and by referring to it above all else is, at best, illusory and, at worst, misleading as to the goal of maintaining high safety standards.
Mr President, I very much welcome the proposals before us today, which are clearly designed to tackle delays caused by air traffic control problems in Europe.
These delays are taking place on many flights because of the difficulties with air traffic systems in Europe.
The objective of the Single European Sky proposal is to ensure that air traffic management systems are designed, managed and regulated in a harmonised way within the Union and with the highest possible level of safety.
Air traffic management in Europe is fragmented and the current system is not able to keep pace with the demand, which results in delays in many flights.
In the European Union we need to establish effective and binding regulatory arrangements to solve this problem sooner rather than later.
We must also guarantee that the necessary staff training is put in place to make these changes work.
Mr President, airlines and passengers are facing a number of serious problems, which the combined management of the airspace above Europe should be able to resolve.
The standards for the various services should be as uniform as possible, preferably at global level and at least at European level, where we should draw on the expertise and experience of organisations such as ICAO, Eurocontrol and soon also EASA.
I would ask that special attention be given to the enforcement of these standards.
The Commission's directive has sought to resolve this problem by introducing a large number of ramp inspections and inspectors to do spot-check inspections on these aircraft as they land in the European Union.
An alternative that I might suggest for future consideration is to actually upgrade technical and maintenance facilities in third countries and give them support and aid so that they can upgrade their own technical specifications and maintenance facilities to a standard that is internationally acceptable.
Air France has done this repeatedly; yesterday two of my colleagues with confirmed tickets were thrown off because the flight had been overbooked.
It is also - and the Commissioner might wish to write to the president of Air France about this - a criminal offence for a Member of Parliament to be prevented from coming to Parliament in Britain.
I am raising these issues so that we may act before it is too late.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I do of course agree with the basic idea, I feel that, when it comes to the question of a Single European Sky, which is a very complex issue, we should look very carefully at local parameters and anyone advocating the privatisation of air traffic control and management will need to come up with some pretty persuasive arguments.
For example, on the question of national sovereignty, each Member State will be required to hand over the planning and control of its airspace to a central agency and this may cause numerous Member States constitutional problems.
Thank you and my especial congratulations to the Commissioner and the honourable Members for their excellent work.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their excellent work in drafting these important reports.
They have taken different points of view into consideration and have achieved a balanced whole.
The reforms are necessary to keep the costs of air traffic down, reduce the number of delays and increase capacity.
There is broad consensus on these goals.
There are whole areas in the regulation where opinions in Member States have differed.
These include consideration of the military dimension, the provision of services, functional airspace blocks and relations with Eurocontrol.
The Member States must furthermore retain the power in the future to decide the provider from which it is to acquire air navigation services.
The recent EU decision to apply for membership of Eurocontrol, the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation, was a necessary one.
Improvements in air safety will also call for action in respect of the assessment of aircraft from third countries.
That is discussed in the report that Mrs Maes drafted and it is important.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is beyond doubt that the airspace above the European Union should be under common management if its safe use and greater quality is to be guaranteed in the form of reduced delays.
The approach taken by the rapporteurs, of involving representatives of consumer associations and of industry, as well as of Eurocontrol and of the armed forces, in the discussion in order to come to decisions on proposals for the use of the Single Sky, is one that I support.
Only this combination, taking account of the experience of civilian and military operators, of suppliers, of those who provide air transport services and those who use them, can lead to decisions being made that effectively make the connection between the required safety standard, efficiency, and the interests of the workforce.
In this instance, two countries would constitute a cross-border block of airspace.
This complex question of how the sovereignty of states may be respected is also apparent in the Commission's thinking and reporting on improved collaboration between civil and military use of airspace.
The extended interoperability of the European air traffic management network can be seen in a positive light, as integrated networks have a natural tendency to facilitate greater compatibility and contribute to the reduction of acquisition and maintenance costs.
Mr President, Commissioner, the fact that we in this Parliament are some of the most frequent users of air transport requires us to pay special attention to all initiatives designed to improve the organisation, punctuality and safety of air traffic navigation and control services.
The simple truth is that in this field there are questions that cannot go unanswered.
First, is Parliament aware that the legal base invoked for the four regulations, Article No 80(2) of the Treaty, might not be a sufficient basis for the measures recommended by the Commission, which will have the consequence of communitising national airspace, leaving States Members to exercise, alone, and jointly, their powers of sovereignty?
Furthermore, will the introduction of economic competition mechanisms into air traffic control activities be appropriate to pursuing the objective of air traffic safety, in other words, the safety of people and goods that are transported and of communities living under flight paths, given the need to maintain the high standards of safety practiced?
In these new regulations we do not see proposals for measures designed to improve the practices of the other components of this complex system.
Yet, in its judgement of 19 January 1994, the Court of Justice stated that air navigation control is a task of the public authorities that is entirely devoid of economic character, since this activity is a service of general interest designed to protect both air transport users and the populations affected by aircraft flying overhead.
The fact that these services are covered by charges paid by the users does not, however, confer upon them the character of services that are subject to the economic rules of the Treaty.
That is why the Member States must be able to choose the procedures for organising and providing these services depending on the volume and nature of traffic that they have to manage, as well as the economic realities specific to their territory.
We should also point out that air traffic services cannot be subject to the economic rules of the Treaty, nor can competition be introduced.
The conflicts of interest which might arise from this would have an extremely harmful effect on the safety of air transport and, more importantly, of the general public.
One of the sovereign functions of the State is to ensure the safety of its population and its territory.
However, I should like to raise a number of concerns that have not yet been addressed, in particular by the Commission.
The proposals before us could result in duplication of regulatory efforts and measures aimed at either Member States or at the full Eurocontrol membership that at present covers 31 countries.
Even worse, there is still a real danger of damaging or destroying existing pan-European systems that function to everybody's satisfaction, solely because they need to be placed all of a sudden in an EU context.
It is our duty to look beyond our borders and create meaningful and effective actions and measures to improve the safety, efficiency and economics of air traffic management which will not lead to a two-tier system, thereby jeopardising the current modus operandi.
In addition, we cannot ignore the genuine concerns of many Member States regarding the military dimensions of Single Sky, nor the sovereignty issue.
On 6 July 2000, during our initial debate here in this House, I informed the House that 44% of delays and 30 bottlenecks were concentrated in sectors straddling north and south, including Switzerland, France, Italy, Spain and parts of Germany.
A Single Sky will not solve all of our congestion problems if these Member States and Switzerland do not make a concerted effort to address their specific shortcomings.
Finally, both airlines and airports will also need to look closely at their practices, as they too are far too often responsible for a high percentage of the delays incurred.
This report has come a long way and, again, we must thank the rapporteurs.
I hope that there will be further and better clarification once Council has met.
Mr President, this debate is not only about safety or the elimination of delays through better cooperation at European level.
The debate and the Fava report also show that we are still not agreed by a long shot on the use of airspace and the rules for air traffic control.
I therefore believe it is important, also in the light of this debate, to make swift progress and to work on a system, a set of rules, which can form the basis of one space instead of fifteen different regulations that are given a common European denominator in one way or another.
Applying productivity criteria to what is merely a question of commercial profitability cannot improve the service provided to air transport users.
More importantly, though, attacking the public and integrated character of air traffic control services and, therefore, breaking the safety chain that this service provides, only increases the risk.
Air traffic controllers are quite right to reject the so-called 'Single Sky' project, a message reinforced during their Europe-wide strike on 19 June, and the risk that it involves.
If you strip the draft text of the pretexts put forward by the Commission, the reality of this project becomes all too evident.
Since then, the Europhile British press, particularly the national Sunday newspaper The Observer, has made great capital over the recent tragic collision between the Swiss and the Russian airliners.
One journalist even suggested that the lack of a unified system was in part responsible for the incident.
A unified system through Eurocontrol already exists.
It has been doing the job of coordinating air movements in 30 countries, half of them outside the EU, for 42 years.
The real issue is the battle as old as the Communities themselves: the battle between supranationalism and intergovernmentalism.
The Community wants to bring a portion of the system under supranational control.
I remind my British colleagues particularly, therefore, that if they vote for this measure they are voting for political integration.
I must also thank the Commissioner and Commission Vice-President because, in this case, making a minimal, formal change to procedure, she has anticipated the line the Commission will take at the end of the debate on the amendments too.
This has given us the opportunity, the subject being so complex, to specify some of the reasons for the importance we attach to the amendments and, precisely, to bring out crucial, sensitive points of the debate.
The Single Sky initiative is positive, for the reasons already mentioned by all the speakers, which I will not go over again so as not to waste time or space.
For this very reason, although we have chosen not to make an explicit, isolated reference to the economic side of things in some amendments, that does not mean that we do not realise its importance but that we want to avoid playing into the hands of those who have viewed this process in a negative light right from the very beginning.
The same applies to the issue of cooperation between civil and military authorities.
Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and remind colleagues that the real issues, the three guiding principles against which we should test these proposals, must be safety, environmental sustainability and consumer rights.
The current systems of air traffic control in Europe are living on borrowed time and the tragic events this summer only go to prove that.
The Single European Sky and the proposals for checks on non-EU aircraft are important contributions to making our skies safer.
But we must also take account of the environment, particularly in this week of the Johannesburg Earth Summit.
Every day millions of litres of fuel are wasted and unnecessary emissions are produced because of aviation delays and aircraft in transit across Europe's skies.
The human cost is incalculable: thousands of family holidays were ruined this summer with people kept waiting in hot and antiquated airports.
Mr President, we have nothing against a Single Sky that is designed, as is proclaimed, to increase safety levels in European airspace by coordinating guidelines and actions and by harmonising rules.
Incidentally, issues of safety or even delays do not fall within the main scope of airspace control.
And, in fact, the proposal adds little in the field of safety.
It is at other levels, however, that this proposal concerns us most, as well as some of the amendments that were introduced in the competent parliamentary Committee.
I am referring specifically to the intention to transfer the definition of 'functional blocks' from the Member States to the Community sphere.
As several Members have already said, though, ideal solutions are still a long way off.
Above all, though, they regard flying as extremely expensive.
Strikes, especially just before public holidays, keep reminding us to what an extent some people, when the issue of safe air travel comes up, consider their own interests rather than the public interest alone.
Our point of departure is a known problem, the delays of 1999, even though this year was exceptional due to the war in Kosovo and the changes to flight paths.
The limits of competition are reached very quickly when the safety of passengers is at stake, and these limits, which fortunately appear, for the most part, in the draft texts, are a matter of responsibility for Member States.
In addition, each Member State is free to select its air navigation providers, and the regulation must provide for cases where public or private businesses concern missions of general interest.
Having said that, our fellow Members have done a good piece of work and I thank them for listening carefully to what we have said.
Problems in air transport, competitiveness and efficiency are being used as a cover for the total liberalisation of the market in this sector, for bumping up the profits of big business and, at the same time, for a rude assault on the safety of aircraft and on the national independence and development potential of the Member States, especially the less developed Member States and more remote areas.
At the same time, the very nature of the transport service will change from a service for the benefit of the people to a way of raking in profits for big business.
The adverse effects of this directive will be many and varied, especially for Greece, a country with hundreds of islands, with areas which are among the least developed in the Union and with serious defence and security problems.
Mr President, Commissioner, I, on the other hand, welcome the adoption of this raft of measures today with satisfaction, and if we have any cause for regret at all, it is that it has taken so long to achieve: we have wasted 10 years over this dispute between Spain and the United Kingdom - which was not even based on historical fact - but it cannot be helped.
I have to say that, in any case, a great many difficulties arose because the dossier was and still is genuinely complex, and its passage has certainly not been smooth.
The effects of this complexity have been felt even today in this House, although it is clear to everybody that there are many economic, safety, environmental and consumer protection justifications for producing this package: we have seen the amount of delays, the level of air traffic congestion, the costs of this congestion and the difficulties of creating new airspaces in terms of safety.
Mr President, this issue demonstrates beautifully the need for something like the European Union.
We have a Union where we not only cooperate as states but we also share our sovereignty and our law-making in the best interests of ourselves as individual Member States and the total population of the European Union.
There is no doubt that we need interoperability between our air traffic control systems; we need better integration and better and more common equipment and training of staff.
I also welcome the public service character of Eurocontrol.
Finally, in terms of the principles I would apply to this area, safety is the first priority, environmental sustainability the second and efficiency the third.
Mr President, Mrs de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, here once again we have been hearing all kinds of reasons why we might not be able to switch to a single European solution with regard to the use of airspace.
The reasons given have often been what would appear to be concerns about safety but in fact this is all about selfishness and the fact that we want to preserve the status quo.
This should be seen as just one exercise.
Finnish Members of Parliament no longer fly from Helsinki to Strasbourg via Paris because the flights are always late or cancelled, or luggage goes missing.
It is also vulnerable.
If a modus operandi based on international borders is the right one, we ought to establish centres in Andorra, San Marino and the Vatican.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur and draftsmen, the need for regulation to make European airspace truly integrated is widely acknowledged.
The current situation is characterised by the existence of various service provision systems, implemented by fifty or so air traffic control centres, with two dozen different management systems and 70 computer programming languages.
I should like at this point to make an aside: I was an air traffic controller during my military service and am well aware of the difficulties caused by the lack of any coordination between airspace controlled by the military and airspace controlled by civilian authorities.
To conclude, safety must be the primary concern of all parties involved in establishing the Single European Sky, followed by environmental and effectiveness issues.
The Commission said in its first speech - which was in the summer of 1999 - that a single system of air traffic control is a typically European problem, and one that we must deal with in a European way.
Then, in 2001, the Commissioner set out the proposals for directives.
Today, having had good debates in Committee, Parliament is to complete the First Reading stage, which means that we have come a very long way in three years and we should just rejoice in that.
I believe that there are sufficient examples to demonstrate that military and civil air traffic control can be integrated and linked up, thus becoming more effective, including in the interests of military security.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to say that I am personally committed to implementing the Single Sky project for three reasons.
The first is related to the rationalisation of capacity and everyone agrees on this point given the explosion in air traffic.
These three factors are of quite major importance.
This matter is difficult because it got off to a poor start, due to two initial mistakes made by the Commission, which first of all wanted to present it as a power game between the Commission and Eurocontrol and which has probably also bowed down excessively to pressure from airlines in view of the commercialisation of control services.
But the Commission presented a second proposal which I believe constitutes a considerable shift, with the participation of Eurocontrol, the acknowledgement of services of general interest of air traffic control services, the character of natural monopoly and, above all, the fact that the Member States are integrated in a Single Sky and will have a say in the way the regulation works.
First of all, the auxiliary services are still very vague: at times, there is a restrictive conception, at others, an extensive notion of these services.
Radar, radio and information technology are the eyes and ears of air traffic controllers.
This does not mean that an integrated service is infallible, but it does mean that there is probably a minimum degree that services can be integrated and perhaps even a maximum that we can preserve.
In fact, if each Member State can appoint its provider and if two Member States do not agree on the provider, nothing is said about how to resolve the issue.
I feel that thanks are due, in particular, to Commissioner de Palacio, Commission Vice-President, who is here today.
This result has been achieved thanks to her perseverance and to the contribution of many others, including the European Parliament.
I hope that, just as she has succeeded in overcoming such great resistance, she will also be able to overcome the resistance put up by the Council and bring the project to a successful conclusion within the set time frame.
Sadly, we have had proof in the past of the negligence and laxity of air traffic controllers, which have claimed many victims, and the fact that this is due partly to the lack of a single airspace shows how important and necessary it is to resolve the matter without delay.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank the people responsible for the reports and all the speakers in this debate, which I have found extremely interesting.
But 50% of delays in the air sector are the result of problems in air traffic management, and the 'Single Sky' proposal is clearly going to improve the management of air traffic and is therefore going to improve on that 50% of delays.
I trust in the Danish Presidency to provide impetus for this issue, which I know is one of the priorities in the field of transport and in particular air transport.
I would like you to be aware that all Eurocontrol does is coordinate flights a priori.
When it comes to operation, when aircraft are under way, the air control operation for these flights falls to the corresponding national authorities on the basis of a generic coordination which has been carried out previously by Eurocontrol.
Because that body, I insist, does not have those capacities, it does not have the Community method which means that what we agree here (Commission, Council and Parliament) becomes an obligatory rule with which the courts can demand compliance on the part of all the countries of the Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, we should keep in mind what our limitations are.
In this context, the question is raised of supra-territorial blocks.
I would say to the honourable Members that they should look carefully at this, that there are only cross-border blocks insofar as there is an agreement between the two States of the Union.
The next item is the report (A5-0269/2002) by Mr Blokland, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the establishment of a Community framework for noise classification of civil subsonic aircraft for the purposes of calculating noise charges [COM(2001) 74 - C5-0001/2002 - 2001/0308(COD)].
We are discussing the possibility of providing companies with economic incentives to take account of the noise nuisance caused by certain aircraft, in accordance with the principle of compensating the best and punishing the worst.
Although aircraft noise is already integrated into certain Community airport charging systems, the criteria used for the differentiation and quantification of noise nuisance vary widely amongst the different Member States.
It is therefore difficult to compare one system with another.
The present proposal deals with this issue, providing a common framework for the classification of aircraft noise which increases convergence and transparency, and allows us to anticipate the situation in each specific case.
The proposal is restricted to the minimum necessary to achieve its objective and leaves the Member States with sufficient possibilities to adjust to the specific parameters of particular airports, such as the level of the unitary noise charge, the characteristics of the fleet using a particular airport, or the variation between the highest charge and the lowest charge.
The responsibility for deciding whether to impose noise charges is left to the Member States.
I would like to thank Parliament for its support on this issue and at the end of the debate I will comment in more detail on some of the amendments, I will say in advance once again they we will accept the majority of them.
In order to prevent distortions of competition, the Environment Committee has decided to make noise charges compulsory at all airports.
It is therefore not necessary to make exceptions for airports that pursue a strict policy in the field of noise charges.
As already indicated, the proceeds of the noise charges will be used to make investments intended to reduce noise nuisance.
However, the Environment Committee is of the opinion that other costs too, such as environmental costs as a result of noise nuisance, should be covered.
Finally, I should like to make a comment on the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens.
The step from the European airspace to noise is naturally a simple one.
If we simplify this procedure, then we should put a whole ream of conditions and measures in place.
Allow me to make a brief comment on this.
Once again, I do recommend the amendments on this point tabled by the Group of the Greens, namely Amendments Nos 18, 19 and 20.
Mr President, legislation addressing the noise nuisance experienced by many citizens around civil airports is of major importance.
What is not possible in Maastricht is allowed in Bierzet, which is only 10 km down the road.
Since the Commissioner is here, I would like to make a different comment, still in connection with this debate.
I should like to single out four points of significance.
In our view, the ratio of 1 in 20 on top of the other systems and on top of the landing rights already has sufficient impact on pricing and on the challenge on the part of airlines and industries to implement the tariffs.
Mr President, noise pollution has a significant effect on the well being of very many European citizens.
Noise in the areas close to airports often reaches a level that is unbearable for millions of our fellow citizens.
The aim is to encourage airlines to use the quietest aircraft and, in addition, to avoid dumping between airports.
That said, although the Commission's proposal is sound in principle, when it is examined in more detail, it can be seen that it is not sufficiently rigorous or effective, as the rapporteur has already pointed out.
According to this proposal, then, the introduction of charges is optional, which will inevitably bring about a dumping policy.
Moreover, the differentiation between types of noise pollution is insufficient.
Since the proposed ratio of 1:20 between the highest and lowest noise charge was insufficient, the rapporteur suggested increasing this ratio from 20 to 40, which is wholly acceptable.
By and large, we agree with the proposals made by the rapporteur, but we added one element to these proposals that the rapporteur unfortunately rejects, namely to take into account the level of noise at night and the level of noise during the day/night/evening, which are two extremely important indicators of noise pollution which allow us to differentiate between charges.
We hope that the rapporteur reviews his position and takes into account the problem of noise at night because it is obvious that this problem is certainly the most harmful nuisance that one can encounter.
We are not going to solve the problem with charges alone, but in any case, this measure will help to improve the situation.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, in principle, we transport experts among the Christian Democrats also support the Commission proposal on noise charges, as we have to use higher charges for noisy aircraft to give the airlines a practical stimulus to use quieter aircraft, and thereby protect the public from a needlessly high level of perceived noise.
The Commission should reconsider how it might reintroduce our proposals, as the Transport Committee's proposals were aimed at giving airports a far more sophisticated framework within which to calculate noise charges.
A broad majority of us in this House has agreed on Amendment No 11, which is to be added to the Blokland Report, by which we seek to make it clear that existing, more effective, noise charge systems may be retained, and thus that European law does not mean a step backwards for the protection of the environment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Directive is a constituent part of a strategy to combat the noise nuisance at airports and in the areas around them - an issue very close to the public's heart.
The strategy's objective is that quieter aircraft must be brought into service and noise charges must become more effective in environmental terms.
It will at one and the same time make for greater transparency and more equal treatment, and make the charges payable by the airlines more predictable, so that, as well as of course markedly improving protection against noise, it will have an incidental effect on competition.
For the proposal for a directive forces the progression to tail off to such a degree that it can no longer be called a perceptible incentive, and that cannot be the objective of our policy on noise and the environment.
My group has therefore reintroduced three amendments, which make it clear that charging systems that are already in existence and are more effective in environmental terms, are to be retained.
The Commission cannot accept all the amendments proposed, amongst other things because, when it comes to regulating this type of issue, we have to ensure that there is a balance between the necessary harmonisation, which prevents everybody from going off in their own direction, and the room for manoeuvre of the various States of the Union and competent authorities, in other words, the principle of subsidiarity.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept the following amendments: Amendment No 3, which proposes using noise measured at airports as a basis, rather than the certified noise of the aircraft, because that would significantly reduce the transparency of the charging system and also because it could cause discrimination as a result of the considerable differences between the noise measurement systems used in the different airports.
Amendment No 4, which does not make it sufficiently clear that the concept of modulating charges must be applied, both in the case of a neutral framework, from the point of view of revenue, and when revenue is used to fund measures to alleviate environmental effects.
While we are saying that these amendments would increase the differences and therefore reduce the harmonising effect sought by the Commission's proposal, I must say that nevertheless, we must reject Amendment No 9, which establishes a minimum noise charge, because airports without noise problems should not in principle be obliged to impose noise charges.
The same can be said of Amendments Nos 11, 15, 16 and 17, because they are contrary to the main objective of the proposals, which is to achieve a minimum degree of harmonisation.
Amendment No 13 cannot be endorsed, because it would oblige all airports to apply a system of noise taxes and Amendments Nos 18, 19 and 20 are not only ruled out because the inclusion or reference to harmonised European objectives is outside the scope of this proposal, but also because they are completely incompatible with the method proposed for the calculation of charges on noise emissions.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are a series of amendments which are acceptable, but there are others which we cannot accept, either because they propose an excessive degree of harmonisation or because, on the contrary, they would excessively reduce the degree of harmonisation proposed.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, it is a great pleasure to introduce, albeit briefly, the topic of today, indeed of the moment, in the knowledge that I shall have another opportunity to explain the Commission's opinion on this matter at the end of the MEPs' interventions.
The draft regulation on sales promotions aims to establish an internal market in the area of discounts, free gifts, premiums and promotional contests and games.
The proposed regulation aims to respond to this request by harmonising information requirements and lifting obsolete national restrictions in this field.
Mr President, Commission, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to say a word of thanks to all my fellow Members of this House, and particularly the shadow rapporteurs, with whom I have worked closely in order to pilot the report on sales promotion into the plenary.
It has been a long journey with many obstacles along the way, which started in 1996 with the first publication of the Green Paper, followed by the Commission's follow-up communication in 1998.
Further to extensive consultation, the Commission introduced a pragmatic and clearly defined proposal in October 2001, for which I was appointed rapporteur in November 2001.
Furthermore, this regulation will also put the consumer in a considerably stronger position.
Not only will consumers receive far more information, but they will also, via the development of the internal market, be able to take full advantage of better pricing.
This is why I consider this proposal to be a very important initiative for the internal market's future development.
I believe that the time has come to make another step in the right direction with a regulation of this kind on sales promotion.
As far as the legal basis is concerned, I have always taken the view that a regulation, thanks to the swifter entry into force and its direct applicability, is a much more effective legal instrument than a directive.
The reason for tabling such an amendment is that I do not want the liberalisation of sale below cost to have a detrimental effect on small and medium-size enterprises.
In this proposal, mutual recognition or - in other words - the principle of the country of origin, is of major importance.
This principle is also the internal market's keystone.
It simply means that Members have to recognise that they cannot apply their own national legislation to incoming promotions.
This mutual recognition of each other's legislation is a flexible means of avoiding overregulation.
In addition, it is already a commonly used form of legislation in our Community legislation.
The television without frontiers directive and the e-commerce directive are two cases in point.
I have always been in favour of the age of fourteen, unless specific products require other age limits.
Following extensive bilateral consultation with fellow MEPs from the various committees, I have managed to resolve these challenges in a pragmatic manner.
Mr President, the regulation on sales promotions is a problematic and controversial dossier, as has been made clear by what Commissioner Bolkestein and Mr Beysen have had to say.
The European treaties established the principle of an open market economy with free competition.
It was particularly with regard to the country of origin principle that we were more frank.
It is right that the provisions on cartel law in the Treaty establishing the European Communities and the essential national provisions on bargain sales should be maintained, as they protect smaller businesses against big groups of companies.
The Commission proposed transparency obligations as a precondition for the planned prohibition of sales below cost price, and these bear no relation to current practice, are questionable from the point of view of competition law and would lead to agreements to fix the resale price.
That cannot be our objective, and so, Commissioner, I do not believe that you will find a majority in Parliament in favour of this scheme.
Once again, the Commission has put the cart before the horse without waiting for the European Parliament's point of view.
I would particularly like to emphasise the issue of mutual recognition, a principle recommended by the Commission to improve the way the internal market works.
Secondly, there is a risk that mutual recognition will lead to deregulation that is harmful to both economic operators as well as consumers.
Operators that are put at a disadvantage by this principle will evidently be tempted to put pressure upon their government to align their national legislation with legislation that is more liberal.
This will therefore lead to a downward alignment of consumer policy throughout the European Union.
That is why I proposed replacing this principle, which, incidentally, has been worded in an extremely vague manner in the proposal for a regulation, with a formula which is, in fact, that used in the established case law of the European Court of Justice.
This report is a good example of how economic and cultural issues overlap, which partly explains the passionate response that it has evoked.
We therefore came out in favour of regulation which, in a market regulated by the euro, liberalises and makes uniform sales promotions, whilst ensuring, however, that the same regulation protects both consumers as well as small and medium-sized businesses.
From this perspective, we dismissed sales liberalisation and below cost resale, by asking the European Commission to carry out a more detailed study on this specific subject.
For the management of this Community promotion, we could only refer back to the principle of mutual recognition, which is fundamental and underpins the entire internal market infrastructure.
That said, in this specific case, we had to clearly redefine the scope of the principle, since there are significant differences between the various national legislations.
The proposed text originally contained more than 300 amendments.
These were finally cut down to 58, which not only represents a considerable effort but also a Community will to forge ahead.
We all needed to keep an open mind, to show great willing and to listen carefully to others, and a clear sign has thus been sent to the governments of the Member States.
That is why we recommend adopting the text in the form that was approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and to reject the amendments tabled in plenary.
Mr President, we all agree on the need to allow companies across Europe to run the EU-wide sales promotions.
In 2000, for example, 531 million coupons were redeemed in the UK; between 1999 and 2000 there was a 122.5% increase in consumer use of Internet coupons and promotions.
It is, however, important that the Commission addresses some of the concerns of Members of the European Parliament and of my political group on the issue of sales below cost in particular.
We also tabled the amendment to require the Commission to come forward with a study in this area.
That is why, in the spirit of better legislation called for by Commissioner Prodi recently, my group will give the Commission conditional support for the regulation if it agrees to carry out an evaluation study to examine exactly how sales below cost can benefit both small businesses and consumers.
The PSE Group has therefore tabled an amendment asking the Commission to work in consultation with consumer groups and industry to ensure the clear and unambiguous execution of the information requirements.
If this regulation is to achieve legal certainty then the requirements must be clear.
The PSE Group has taken a strong line to protect minors against harmful promotions relating to alcohol and tobacco.
Finally, a very brief point on mutual recognition.
I personally believe that mutual recognition already works.
Every day on the Internet, cross-border sales and business are alive and thriving, using the principle of mutual recognition.
It is justifiably a regulation because it simply removes certain sorts of bans on sales promotions while leaving it to the states to pursue their own particular legal, economic and political preference in other cases.
So in this sense it is an important contribution to the consolidation of the single market and my group will support it in much the same spirit and also support much the same amendments as Mrs McCarthy has just done on behalf of the PSE.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal for a regulation shows that the obsession to make everything uniform with no regard for subsidiarity will affect those on the lowest incomes.
Citizens will also suffer from the closure of local facilities, which are already in great difficulty in rural areas and town centres.
The quality of the work carried out by our fellow Members in the Committee on Legal Affairs is not in question and many negative details have been eliminated, but there is a risk that the Commission, as on many other matters, will ignore this work and will, for the most part, stand by its original position.
Mr President, every freedom is based on a balance.
Therefore, I can only welcome the amendments which were adopted in the various parliamentary committees that were involved in this text and which continue to observe national legislation in this respect.
Local businesses and small businesses are the driving force behind our economy.
I think it is necessary to emphasise this and to reiterate that, without them, the diversity of supply and the guarantee of quality would disappear.
Be careful not to disrupt this balance, this would not be in anyone's interest, not in our capacity as consumers, nor in our capacity as politicians.
The lifts are absolutely useless - either that or the architects who planned them are. (Loud applause) My fellow Member sitting next to me has made a very good comment.
The sessional services should get themselves better organised.
The Community policy which absorbs the most funds generates an enormous amount of information, which we do not currently take advantage of.
That information could provide a much more up-to-date result, and a much more up-to-date and reliable picture of Community agriculture, than many much more expensive and less reliable investigations.
The reason why the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has withdrawn its amendments is that, during the debate, the Commission published a report on the creation of a database on payments made by the EAGGF-Guarantee, in other words, on the distribution of agricultural aid.
The Agriculture Committee believes that that report satisfied our demands since the Commission had committed itself to transparency towards Parliament and the whole of society.
The second point of the conclusions of that report lays down that the said database will begin to operate after 1 January 2003, although this will not prevent the presentation of indicative figures before that date.
While repeating to the Commission that we need that information for the purposes of the mid-term reform of Agenda 2000, I would like the Commission to answer a simple question: on what date will the database in question begin to operate, and when will the indicative figures be presented?
The sooner this is, the better will be the work of our committee and the work on the review of Agenda 2000.
Mr President, the answer to this question is that, as Commissioner Fischler has already indicated in various letters to Members of this House, in early autumn he intends to publish statistical information on the recipients of direct payments, classified according to the amount.
The statistics will cover 14 Member States, because figures for Greece are still not available.
The Committee having deliberated on the matter, the following can be stated: an EU Member State may categorically and unilaterally ban the import of spent nuclear fuel from a non-EU state.
An EU Member State may also ban the import of spent fuel from another Member State when it is no longer intended for reprocessing but disposal in another country.
A country cannot unilaterally impose a ban on the import of spent fuel meant for reprocessing.
The reservation with regard to Article 27 that the Commission is proposing would not clear the way for an EU single market for the disposal of nuclear waste; it would instead allow the EC to amend Directive 92/3/Euratom to ensure compatibility with the Joint Convention.
It must be the machine. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Report (A5-0266/2002) by Marieke Sanders-ten Holte, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, 1.
on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the provision of Air Navigation Services in the Single European Sky (COM(2001) 564 - C5-0482/2001 - 2001/0235(COD)), 2.
on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the organisation and use of the airspace in the Single European Sky (COM(2001) 564 - C5-0483/2001 - 2001/0236(COD)) and 3.
It should allow for a more efficient administration of the CAP and more efficient use of public funds.
There are a lot of data available, supplied by farmers in meeting the requirements of various programmes and schemes, available to national and European authorities.
Let the efforts be at an administrative level in terms of sharing information and statistics, making information systems compatible and so on.
This is undoubtedly an example of what the European authorities can do in this area: they are setting standards for work, rest and time on board for crews and commercial flight personnel.
These EU-wide standards may offer personnel a minimum of guarantees and that is why we did not vote against the report.
This is why we support this report, which seeks to remedy a shortcoming on the part of the Commission in not including this matter in its proposal for a Regulation, which we can only deplore, all the more because various Members States still have no legislation on this matter.
Despite the broad support of the airlines, the pilots' unions have not backed the rapporteur's proposals, taking the view that the flight times are exaggerated.
Consequently, it is considered that the solution that has been reached is the best and perhaps the only one possible.
The increase in the EU contribution from EUR 120 million to EUR 237 million is also important, although this sum should be enhanced when the budget is drafted.
We voted in favour of this report because, of course, we are not opposed to aid from European countries being granted to Palestinian refugees.
Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the full amount will go directly to refugees, and that, along the way, it will not grease the palms of European companies and suppliers.
We now have the ludicrous situation of the nuclear industry shopping dangerous radioactive material around the planet.
The Convention recognises that any State has the right to ban imports into its territory of foreign spent fuel and radioactive waste.
For example, it suggests that multinationals should develop a sense of responsibility and set up ethical investment committees and should apply a 'fair' (but unspecified) trade system and an overall trade liberalisation policy.
It ignores the fact that it is impossible for multinationals to make a killing and for people to prosper at one and the same time.
The report is making a step in the wrong direction.
He believes in capitalism, but also has consideration for the way in which the difference in welfare between Europe and the developing world has developed over the centuries.
His views on a reliable legal system, the fight against corruption, transfers of technology, health care, women's emancipation and land reforms, as expressed in his initiative proposal, receive my support.
The report seeks, therefore, to reconcile the global principle of the positive aspect of trade liberalisation with the need to force multinational companies to adhere to the same types of regulatory, stabilising, and legitimising functions that are binding at national level, which is why I have voted in favour of the report.
Every year, the European Union produces more than 60 million tonnes of waste packaging.
And, despite the objective of stabilisation in the Fifth Environment Action Programme, despite the fact that waste prevention is the first priority of European environmental policy, the situation is more or less the same: the amount of packaging continues to increase in the European Union.
This strategy must involve enhancing the Commission's modest proposal; in other words, by introducing prevention and producer responsibility.
Yet, prevention is a genuine priority in the area of waste management, and could even become the cornerstone of the European environmental policy.
I shall support the report, which also emphasises two concepts that are key to a successful environmental policy: cooperation, which we need from everyone, and the fact that the impact we have on the environment should always, in future, guide our action. . (NL) Packaging is what the consumer is left with when he buys a new product.
It was high time that the European Commission proposed altering the Directive on packaging and packaging waste introduced eight years ago, but the proposed change leaves something to be desired.
The original Commission text should be upgraded and tightened up to ensure a more ambitious strategy for countering this mountain of discarded packaging materials.
As such, I welcome the concepts of prevention and producer responsibility; these will go some way in ensuring that the onus for implementing these measures is evenly spread across European citizens.
Finally, placing this Directive into a broader context, to ensure that it is compatible with the Sixth Environment Action Programme, makes good sense and demonstrates that the EU is capable of joined-up thinking and a sensible approach to this matter.
I voted against the 'Single Sky' initiative, which resembles more of a manoeuvre by the Commission to increase its power (with, as usual, the unconditional support of the European Parliament) than an initiative that is genuinely designed to improve air safety and increase the flow of air traffic.
Although we cannot deny that some progress has been made with regard to the rules governing air traffic control, the will, re-stated by the Commissioner responsible for this dossier, to speed up the liberalisation of air transport services entails risks which have been clearly expressed by the relevant trade unions.
We need only observe the sad deterioration of rail transport services in certain Member States since their liberalisation.
The definition of cooperation between Eurocontrol and the Community is one such problem, as is the definition of cooperation between civil and military authorities.
The air traffic control company Skyguide was a private company.
In any event, this accident should make Members of Parliament extremely prudent pending the results of the enquiries, and also in light of the consequences of the effective liberalisation of other means of transport such as rail transport in the United Kingdom.
That was the message of the major European strike by air traffic controllers on 19 June 2002.
Instead of swearing by the market alone, we should favour cooperation, such as exists within the organisation for air safety, Eurocontrol.
We should pay more attention to public service and safety.
To maintain national navigation systems and fragment the airspace into small areas would not be conducive to safety.
It would therefore seem obvious to hand over this task as a whole to the existing Eurocontrol that has monitored the airspace of the Benelux countries and western Germany for a long time.
This should also apply to military air traffic, which, particularly in France, is still able to occupy an unacceptably large part of the airspace.
It is a pity that, now of all times, we are missing the opportunity of having clear and safe management of the airspace.
All the services will be liberalised (control, radio, radar, search and rescue and meteorological).
Multiple operators and competition between service providers have been detrimental to investment in maintenance, to increasing safety and to improving staff working conditions.
More public control over air transport is needed at European level, to make way for intermodal passenger and freight transport schemes.
The Commission proposals and the report under examination are not a step in this direction.
That is why we have voted against them. . (NL) I have already indicated, in my remarks on the Fava report, that scaling up may be inevitable, but that unfortunately, the wrong choices are once again being proposed.
This means that each airspace block can end up with a different company, although in the long run, a near-monopoly is bound to emerge and will control the lion's share of the airspace.
The European Parliament and Council consider this to be a question, principally, of establishing a unified system that will allow the European Union to exclude less safe aeroplanes from its airports and also to prevent certain Member States from being tempted, for commercial or other reasons, to be less strict with regard to the necessary controls.
Under the Convention on International Civil Aviation, responsibility for aviation safety is assigned to individual States.
The European Civil Aviation Conference applies the SAFA procedure (Safety Assessment of Foreign Aircraft) as a means of monitoring aircraft and, consequently, of increasing aviation safety.
I therefore support the European Commission's proposal for a directive intended to formalise the SAFA procedure in the Community.
Unfortunately, the proposal on the safety of aircraft from third countries does not go as far as this.
That would amount to giving credit to the rapporteur when in fact this is the work of the committee. 'Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's'. . (FR) We support the broad lines of the Stevenson report, which advocates promoting the cultivation in the European Union of plant proteins necessary for animal feed (soya, but also peas, beans, field beans, sweet lupins, and also, to a lesser degree, legumes, cereals, grasses, etc.).
This reliance causes us serious strategic problems, but also public health problems, since it is difficult under these conditions to establish product traceability, which could lead us, for example, to buy GMO soya whether we want to or not.
What, though, has limited European production in this area?
The Blair House agreements, which have also had another disastrous effect since they have in return led to the use of animal meal, which was the cause of mad cow disease.
The basis of the food production system, however, is morally bankrupt, as it aims only to satisfy the needs of countries and social classes with high purchasing power.
Several kilos of fishmeal, for example, are needed to produce more expensive fish in fish farms.
This is a revolting system, because it contributes to raiding the resources of the poorest countries and starving part of the world's population.
In doing so, it ignores the difficulty that farmers have already experienced in this type of situation and deprives the agriculture sector of new prospects.
The development of protein-rich oil plants would comply with the need to develop a diversified, sustainable agriculture sector, in response to consumer demand for traced products and consumer rejection of GMOs.
It would also provide farmers with new opportunities through the development of non-food prospects such as biofuels.
Lastly, these crops have an essential role to play at an agronomic and environmental level.
Particularly in this six-month period as we face enlargement, it has almost symbolic significance in reminding us that the Member States and the candidate countries have a common destiny and share the same problems which we shall do better to solve through joint efforts.
I should like to thank the European Parliament for this opportunity on behalf of the Council to express deep sympathy with the victims of the disaster.
Some have lost relatives, and many their homes.
I should also like, on behalf of the Council, to thank the European Parliament and the President of the European Parliament for the commitment and good will which Parliament has shown in ensuring a rapid and effective response on the part of the Community.
The Commission deserves praise for the fact that the EU has quickly been able to take the initiative regarding decisions that will benefit the affected regions in Germany and Austria, as well as in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, as candidate countries.
The Council had a first opportunity to discuss the Commission's statement at a meeting of the Permanent Representatives Committee on 29 August.
That is a good starting point for the intense discussions between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament over the next few weeks.
The Danish Presidency is very keen that the Community should play its part in solving the problems created for our fellow citizens, both in existing and future Member States, by the severe flooding.
Ladies and gentlemen, today, first of all, I would like to offer my deepest sympathy to all the families affected, but I also wish to recognise in particular the civil defence forces, the thousands of volunteers we saw, and the local, regional and national political and civil leaders who have shown such admirable dedication in this situation.
On 28 August, the Commission announced a series of initiatives under the various Community policies to help the countries and regions concerned to cope with this disaster.
Not only has the Union shown its solidarity with the communities concerned, but it also intends to demonstrate its capacity to act and react quickly.
I would like to point out, with regard to natural risks, that two subjects always go hand-in-hand, prevention and repair.
I know that prevention requires both funding and political courage.
I also know, however, that prevention always costs less than having to repair the damage.
More than forty projects will be implemented within a budget of EUR 230 million.
Following the Galtur disaster of February 1999, in which 31 people lost their lives, almost EUR 10 million are to be allocated to an avalanche prevention measure.
When the time comes, I shall propose that natural, technological and environmental risk prevention should become a high, almost inevitable priority of future regional policy programmes after 2006.
That is why regional development cannot take place without natural, technological or environmental risk prevention.
It is plain that our planet needs global thinking and collective courage, as advocated by the Brundtland report at the end of the 1980s, before the Rio Summit.
Mr President, I am now going to talk about the urgent need to rebuild, to prove swiftly our solidarity with the German and Austrian Länder, but also with the Czech and Slovak regions that have suffered damage.
Although most of the disaster areas in Germany can benefit from these Funds under objective 1, this is not the case in Austria.
Furthermore, these instruments are governed by provisions with which you are familiar, which do not always allow the necessary aid to be quickly released.
That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is why the Commission proposes the creation of a disaster fund for the regions and States in case of a major natural disaster.
I would emphasise that this solidarity fund will be available to benefit both current and future Member States.
We considered it preferable to call upon a new, flexible instrument that could mobilise at least EUR 500 million in 2002, and EUR 1000 million in future, which would be added to the Fund in case of a disaster.
The aim of this Fund would be, on the one hand, to help normal public life to resume, for example by repairing energy, transport and telecommunications networks, rebuilding or building temporary accommodation, and, on the other, to limit damage by consolidating preventative infrastructures, for example dikes and dams.
In a few days, on 18 September, we would like to adopt a proposal for a regulation specifying the conditions and implementation methods for this disaster fund.
This support and understanding are essential as our joint objective is to make this fund operational in the next few months.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that prevention is always more effective and less expensive than repair.
Sometimes, however, as is the case at the moment, urgency is paramount and it is important for the European Union to be able to provide help and practical solidarity to the affected communities and regions of Germany, Austria, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Barnier and the other representatives of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has experienced one of the most catastrophic floods in its history, and we express our sympathy to the families of those who have died in it.
I kept in touch with President Prodi during this time and, on behalf of our group, told him - he was, I believe, in the Czech Republic at the time - that I supported him in so far as I could, and assured him that any commitments he might make would have our group's support.
Commissioner Monti and the Commission as a whole have committed themselves to this.
Other colleagues of mine will speak more extensively about the situation in Germany, in Austria, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia and in Hungary.
But please allow me, on behalf of the Socialist Group, firstly to express our condolences, our concern for the victims and also our sincerest thanks to all the volunteers who have taken action, not only those who come from the regions in question, but also those from many others.
I have had the opportunity to see volunteers in my country from the Canary Islands, which are rather far away, who were on their way to Central Europe to lend a hand wherever necessary.
The application of the stability pact can be discussed when there is a disaster, but what is not acceptable is that the stability pact is being discussed in countries which have not suffered disasters.
We must act more firmly on the way towards a policy of sustainable development and, above all, of strengthening solidarity between us.
For that reason, my group, the ELDR, supports the Commission's actions and plans to help flood victims and help finance reconstruction, and is calling for a vigorous programme of further action.
The distribution of competence means the EU's responsibility is greatest in the area of agriculture.
The ELDR Group furthermore believes the following measures are also the right ones: the partial reprogramming of the Structural Funds, a temporary increase in Community funding, and channelling the performance reserve to the flood area.
Action to help candidate countries also has the support of our group.
Our group is in favour of establishing a European emergency aid fund.
Our group is prepared to promote the fastest possible implementation of legislation and technical preparation concerning this fund.
At the same time, we need to consider the risk of natural disasters, such as flooding, at different levels of the social structure, and try to reduce them.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Commissioner, Commissioners, my group welcomes the discussion on the measures required at European level to cope with the unparalleled damage wrought by the disastrous floods in the Federal Republic of Germany, in Austria, in the Czech Republic and in Slovakia.
I would like to again express our dismay and our grief over the victims and express our sympathy to their families.
The immense material damage and the destitution of thousands of people call for extensive and coordinated aid on the part of the European, national and regional forces and institutions.
The members of the public, communities, businesses and faring installations that have been affected expect the European institutions to provide immediate and tangible aid to alleviate their need and also to deal with the extensive consequences of the emergency.
The European Union can do a great deal to polish up its image and reputation in the eyes of the public by acting speedily and without bureaucracy.
The remarkable wave of solidarity and unselfish mutual assistance that showed itself in the struggle against the floodwaters, must be supplemented by clear and substantial indications of the European Union's solidarity.
Over and above that, we propose that, in the event of disasters, it should be possible to examine the legal option of reducing the share of national cofinancing, at the same time suspending the putting of contracts out to tender in order to mobilise local and regional enterprises.
I would like to point out by way of conclusion that these disastrous floods are not an isolated and extreme natural occurrence; the incidence of natural disasters in various parts of the world is increasing.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it was with horror that we watched as the rivers of Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Bavaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria, both great and small, became rivers of destruction.
For my own part and on behalf of my group, I would like to express my deep sympathy with all of them.
My desire is that this discussion may become a real sign of solidarity and that a disaster fund may come into being, founded in a spirit of solidarity with all regions rather than with only a few of them and including the candidate countries.
The question facing the Commission is whether a new plan can be successfully drawn up and whether all existing plans can be reviewed, so that the Commission, too, may take full responsibility in this area.
Mr President, the motion for a resolution tabled by the UEN Group and the motions tabled by the other political groups seek essentially to create a credit line in the Union's budget to help to deal with the damage caused by the natural disasters which have occurred recently in a number of Member States and in the candidate countries.
Moreover, the need for emergency Community action was blatantly obvious if we consider the exceptionally widespread effects of the atmospheric phenomena which have affected the whole of Europe.
The creation of a stable credit line in the Union's budget would, therefore, help the States to take the necessary action to address the damage caused by these events.
We must reflect on the fact that the issue of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions - addressed for the first time as early as 10 years ago in New York and for the second time six years later in Kyoto in the famous Protocol - is still far from being resolved in any significant way because of the failure of a sufficient number of States to ratify the Protocol.
Mr President, my group, the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities, would also like to convey its condolences to the relatives of the victims of the severe floods in Europe, and we must find effective methods of helping the many people who are now in need of help.
It would be wiser to pay a portion of the bill for the aid programme that has now to be undertaken by the local, regional and national authorities, and I personally am prepared to go a very long way down this road, for it is in times of need that friends show their worth.
We are wealthy in the EU, much wealthier than, for example, the badly affected Czech Republic and Slovakia.
In Austrian regions alone, over 10 000 homes have been destroyed, innumerable bridges and roads have been destroyed or have sustained major damage, with the infrastructure of communities and regions suffering serious consequential damage.
Rapid emergency aid means that the procedure by which we act must be the speediest available - we in the PPE group propose that this be based on the procedure used in the 2002 Fourth Supplementary Budget - so that, by the end of October at the latest, funds of the order of EUR 1 billion can be on their way.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Commission, this House has already seen lengthy discussions of whether or not there ought to be an institution or fund with the specific purpose of giving aid in times of catastrophe.
My group is therefore unambiguously in favour of the creation of a new financial instrument with all the precautions that honesty requires that we take in a disaster situation.
I would like again to underline what Commissioner Barnier said with reference to prevention.
Not only must we - where this is possible - provide for a return to the natural state, but we must also put preventive measures in place using all our technical knowledge, as for example happened in my home city of Vienna, where we have again been spared disaster.
So I am asking everybody in Parliament, but especially the Commission, to prepare matters as speedily as possible and in so efficient a manner that both the Council and Parliament can give their prompt agreement.
If we can tell people that this has been done, then, I believe, it will be with greater enthusiasm that they will be able to say 'yes' to this European Union of ours.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, first of all, I wish to express my and my group's sympathy for everyone hit by the disaster.
The disastrous floods in Central Europe have been, and remain, appalling.
Major issues have arisen within the EU which have required common solutions and have welded countries and peoples together.
The next major project for the European Union should be to create a common environmental policy that is both tough and directly binding upon countries and individuals.
Mr President, the most disastrous floods in living memory to strike those who live on the Elbe and on some of its tributaries have also had a grave effect on farmers and their businesses.
In Saxony alone, some 1 900 farms have been directly affected by floodwater, and another 640 in Saxony-Anhalt.
The environmental and financial effects will become apparent only in late 2003 and 2004.
With that in mind, I hope Parliament, and all of us, will be able to do the right thing.
Turning to the follow-up measures and to the long-term measures, I would like to underline what my fellow-Members have said, namely that climate change has become a brutal reality.
Commissioner Barnier repeatedly emphasised the need for preventive measures.
I hope - and it is in these terms that I appeal to all the Member States, to the Commission and to this House - that these do not merely express pious aspirations, but will be implemented in all relevant policy areas.
There is not much point in simply blundering into the rebuilding of what has been destroyed if we have not previously gathered all the available information we need, especially in environmentally sensitive areas.
Public expectations of this EU of ours, of this community of solidarity, have grown and will carry on growing.
So congratulations on these ad hoc measures; we should be equally zealous in identifying the structures for the future, for our solidarity should be not only with those who are the victims now, but with everyone, and not only today, but also tomorrow.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my very heartfelt thanks for all my fellow-Members' solidarity and sympathy, as this is a really difficult time for people in the affected areas of Central Europe.
We are especially grateful to the Commission and the Presidency of the Council for their prompt action in response to this catastrophe.
I am myself from an affected area in Lower Austria and have personal experience of their superhuman efforts.
The destruction of many businesses and of the infrastructure in these regions has set the areas' development back by years.
Emergency aid must find a place in the Supplementary Budget.
Mr President, Commissioners, President-in-Office of the Council, my greatest sympathy at this time is with the families badly hit or otherwise affected in the disaster-struck areas.
Respect and admiration are also in order for the huge response to the disaster and for the way in which thousands of people stood shoulder to shoulder in combating the masses of water.
My request, or rather my question is this: have these EUR 560 million really been available since 1 September?
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to add my voice to the messages of condolence and thanks to the honourable Members.
Europe has been affected in an incomparable way by the problem of flooding and must be part of the solution to this immediate problem we are facing.
We must bear in mind that this House has contributed for many years to the 1.27 limit of the European Union's budget never having been used and therefore a substantially smaller proportion than that has been used.
I am a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and it is clear that flexibility is fundamental in reprogramming, that the efficiency reserve must be used for this task, revitalising small and medium-sized businesses, which are the driving force for normalisation and recovery and that prioritising the defence of our infrastructures must be an essential element of the new priorities.
That shows that, as a community, the European Union basically functions on the principle of solidarity.
The local citizens saw that Europe is a dynamic force for help.
One way would be to provide funds from the supplementary budget or from the disaster fund which has already been discussed here today.
The second way of providing funds is through the Structural Funds.
However, in the case of the Structural Funds, we need to bear in mind that, under current legislation, the Structural Funds can only be implemented if there is 50% cofinancing.
I am very grateful to everyone, including the Commission, which has put a really impressive package together and shown us how we can help at European level.
All of us from the regions affected have already said that this is a message which has been very well received by our citizens.
I also believe - which is why, of course, we are lobbying here for increased support - that help from the European Union should be in proportion to the damage.
I can also report that, in my region, even people who lost everything or almost everything are saying, the poor Czechs, they are even worse off, they will probably find it even harder to cope.
I should like to use this platform to thank everyone who has helped in Austria, the army, the fire brigade, the Red Cross and all the volunteers.
For me and for my country, the European Union means solidarity, both with the Member States, and with the candidate countries.
This fund would enable us to provide a rapid response in the event of disasters in the broadest sense of the term.
Furthermore, the size of the freed-up funding should take account of not only the extent of the disaster, but also of the prosperity of the regions affected.
Anyone who has witnessed how two countries which, economically, are usually among the strongest in Europe, have received expressions of solidarity from countries which are not among the strongest will never again be able to refuse these regions help if disaster threatens in the future.
But we also need to take account in our calculations of experience in formulating policies in other areas.
I should like to thank everyone who has helped and I trust we shall pull together over the coming weeks and months in order to carry out the work in hand.
I should like on behalf of a great many people to thank the authorities, the communes, the Länder, the governments of the Member States, the European Union and the volunteers and, as the chairman of a social organisation, the Österreichisches Hilfswerk, which is one of the eight organisations distributing donor money, to thank the thousands, or rather hundreds of thousands of donors.
Schüssel, estimated yesterday that 70% of the damage has been recorded and EUR 65 - 70 million paid out directly.
We are calling for flexibility in the aid regulation, we are calling for Structural Fund resources to be reallocated, we are calling for the national cofinancing portion to be reduced, we are calling for national limits on aid to be lifted and we are calling for emergency aid to be paid out quickly; we want specific dates, not just promises.
It is clear from the debate that we need to act because we are all in the same boat.
It is a good example of political maturity and of a willingness to demonstrate that actions speak louder than words, to help ensure there are no delays, that action is taken in the short term and that a new approach is taken in the long term.
Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, winter will soon be here and our citizens' pleas to the European Union must not go unheeded.
Throughout Europe, the men and women who have suffered the terrible tragedy of flooding, in particularly severe conditions, are waiting for a sign of hope from Parliament, but most of all they are awaiting clear, immediate, practical action.
In my region, in the Belgian Hainault or in less well-publicised areas, the public would not understand a refusal to help them or that there are two kinds of help according to the area in which one lives or the scale of the damage, as all these people have sadly been affected by the disaster, some more than others, or even twice as much as others - I am thinking in particular of those who are part of the economic fabric, such as farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Commissioner, you spoke of 'political courage', but I would say to you that what this Parliament needs to demonstrate is 'joint political responsibility' in order to guarantee the safety of our citizens.
Mr President, I wish to say two things: the first is to express the profound and genuinely heartfelt solidarity of the Autonomous Region of the Azores; the second is to praise the words and specifically the action of Commissioner Barnier, who, for several years now, has dedicated considerable attention and commitment to the problem of natural disasters.
I think it can be concluded that Parliament, the Commission and the Council are united in wanting to help the hundreds of thousands of people affected, and not only help them but help them quickly.
The Presidency should do everything to ensure that the Council deals with the matter promptly and, judging by what I have now heard, I am certain that matters can also proceed very quickly here in Parliament.
I am convinced that, both in the short and longer term, we can establish an effective tool for helping all the people affected.
I think it important that the solidarity of which today's debate has been an expression should also extend beyond the existing or present Member States to include the candidate countries which would, in that way, be given a signal that they too were being considered in the context of what we were working on.
It is that spirit of community and solidarity with the new Member States which, later in the year too, we shall be using to carry through one of the most important decisions in the history of Europe.
Thank you Minister.
Owing to the different executive responsibilities of our colleagues in the Commission, it is important that we should profit from their presence at the end of this debate by inviting each of the Commissioners to make a short statement pertaining to the college in general and, specifically, to their own portfolios.
The first measure decided was to use set-aside areas.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members, I think that once again today's debate has sent out a clear signal, a clear signal of solidarity and a clear signal that the European institutions are working very well together and are being supportive of each other in this situation.
There is financial aid for farmers, pre-accession aid and, most importantly of course, the Structural Funds.
My colleague, Mr Monti, has made it perfectly clear that no objections under aid regulations will be filed against national aid to compensate up to 100% of the damage sustained by businesses and that this aid may even include loss of earnings or orders.
As regards the question of setting up a fund to provide direct aid in the event of natural disasters, I am most grateful for the huge consensus in the House, a consensus which cuts across the party political divide and is in step with the Council.
That means we need agreement and a special contract between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I have a direct request to make of the European Parliament and the Council here: please remember the devil is in the detail when you formulate this legal basis; bear in mind that we want to get the money to the regions affected quickly.
We should give the regions affected a lump sum in aid and, instead of waiting for projects to be specifically formulated, we should declare the aid as such for the region.
We need to come to an agreement with the Council here, because the fund will obviously have to be financed by the Member States, even if we want to provide aid this year without calling up new funds.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members, I should like to pick up on just one thought that has run through the whole of this debate, namely the fact that, in the midst of such awful disaster, comforting moments occur, especially when humanity suddenly shows its face where it was least expected.
The speed with which we acted and the fact that we took it for granted that action was needed have left behind a far deeper impression than much we have done for the Czech Republic over recent years.
To know that, in your hour of need, you are in the same boat as your neighbour and to see help given in a spirit of solidarity has answered the question raised by a lot of people in this country: why exactly do we want Europe and do we need it?
If it rains cats and dogs in Austria and Saxony and in the Czech Republic, which is in between the two, we cannot say we shall help Austria and we shall help Saxony, but we shall not help the Czech Republic.
Mr President, as we reach the end of this debate, I would like to add a few thoughts to those of my colleagues.
It is telling that several Commissioners wanted to be present throughout this debate as we have worked together, and each of us, in their own sector, must contribute to a swift, effective response.
Very shortly, on 18 September, we shall present a proposal: speed, effectiveness and fairness for the distribution methods of this new Fund.
A major natural disaster, in my opinion, is a disaster that seriously affects a significant proportion of the population in one or more regions, in one or more States.
It is also a disaster that severely compromises the economy of that region, group of regions, State or group of States.
That is clearly the case of the floods that have recently affected many regions and four States.
Our responsibility is to ensure, as in the case of the credits managed within the framework of the Structural Funds, that the credits we are going to allocate within the framework of the total appropriations under this Fund, are used in the field, pursuant to the directives on the environment, with the requirement for sustainable development and perhaps with an additional requirement from now on, concerning prevention.
I have the honour, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council, to present the 2003 draft budget of the European Communities, prepared by the Council on 22 July.
Both as Minister for European Affairs and former Member of the European Parliament, I am very pleased to note that the budget procedure for 2003 has so far been characterised by sound cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament.
In the draft budget I am about to present, account has already been taken of a series of agreements and common understandings resulting from the consultation meeting between the Council and Parliament on 19 July 2002.
I am certain that this work has created a sound basis for the budget authority's two branches being able to reach agreement on a satisfactory budget for 2003.
I shall presently touch upon a number of challenges which have already been debated by the European Parliament and the Council and in connection with which agreements and common understandings have been reached.
I shall then provide a general survey of the main features of the draft budget prepared by the Council on 22 July.
A common understanding was reached to the effect that work must be done on securing funding for the common foreign and security policy in the light of important new tasks.
A common understanding was also reached to the effect that the restructuring of the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets should be financed and that the growth rate for the global appropriations for payments should be kept as low as possible.
By means of the agreement entered into, we have attached importance to securing funding for the pre-enlargement measures that are necessary for the individual institutions.
At the same time, there is agreement that the ceiling for the administrative expenditure in 2003 should be retained.
By means of an agreement reached as early as in July, the institutions will acquire the best possible basis for planning as they prepare for enlargement.
Both Parliament and the Council accord high priority to the EU's participation in external actions, that is to say the common foreign and security policy.
We also concur about seeking an agreement concerning how best to involve Parliament in CFSP arrangements within the framework of the Treaty.
In its draft budget, the Commission has set aside an amount of EUR 40 million to the CFSP.
The Council welcomes this appropriation but believes that the overall appropriations are inadequate.
I hope we can reach agreement on something corresponding to the Council's proposal.
I shall touch briefly upon the Commission's proposal to use the flexibility instrument for providing funding to the tune of EUR 27 million for restructuring the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets.
In this area, both the European Parliament and the Council have undertaken to find a solution before the close of the budget procedure.
On the issue of providing EUR 27 million by way of funding, the Council believes that all possible methods of funding should be investigated before consideration is given to the Commission's proposal to use the flexibility instrument for this purpose.
Finally, a couple of words about the growth rate for the global appropriations for payments.
We must show the surrounding world that we are in a position to engage in realistic budgeting.
Special account has been taken of the possibility of the appropriations in actual fact having been used up.
The global appropriations for payments amount to EUR 96 992 million, which constitutes an increase of 1.4% on the 2002 figure.
This low growth rate must be seen in the light of the limited use of appropriations for payments in preceding years.
The first reading of the 2003 draft budget took place: with due account being taken of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure within the framework of the Council's conclusions of 5 March 2002 concerning the budgetary guidelines for 2003, and with account being taken of the conclusions from the consultation meeting of 19 July 2002 between Parliament and the Council.
Particular care was taken to maintain the annual expenditure ceilings established in the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 if possible, to leave adequate margins below the ceilings for the various areas of expenditure, except in the case of the categories relating to Structural Funds and pre-accession aid, in which the ceilings include expenditure targets to set adequate funds aside for the EU's various priorities.
I should like to emphasise a couple of the main points in the Council draft budget within the various areas of expenditure.
With regard to agriculture, the Council proposes an adjustment downwards of EUR 288 million.
Experience has shown that the appropriations for the common agricultural policy have often been set too high.
When it comes to the appropriations for the development of rural districts, the Council has accepted the Commission's preliminary draft budget.
The Council has accepted the Commission's proposals almost in their entirety.
There has nonetheless been a downwards adjustment of EUR 525 million in the appropriations to the Structural Funds in the light of previous years' underutilisation of the appropriations.
These downward adjustments do not affect projects in connection with regions bordering on the candidate countries.
A margin of EUR 122 million has been left under the ceiling for expenditure area 3, enabling the European Parliament to fund various priorities, at the same time as making it possible to cover future needs.
Where expenditure area 4 - external policies - is concerned, the Council has accepted the appropriations in the Commission's draft budget almost in their entirety.
A margin of EUR 80 million under the ceiling for expenditure area 4 has been left, enabling the European Parliament to fund various priorities, at the same time as making it possible also to cover future needs.
I have already mentioned the administrative expenditure under category 5.
The Council draft budget makes no changes to the Commission's proposals concerning the appropriations for commitments.
The appropriations for payments have, however, been adjusted downwards by EUR 300 million.
This must be seen in the light of the preceding years' underutilisation of the appropriations.
All in all, I am pleased to be able to state that the Council draft budget for 2003 contains sufficient funds to cover the EU's various priorities, as well as taking account of the agreements and common understandings we reached at the first consultation meeting in July.
You all know that this budget procedure is only just beginning and that there is still a way to go before the final adoption of the 2003 budget.
The draft budget prepared by the Council offers a sound basis for this.
The agreements and common understandings we reached at the meeting on 19 July are a positive sign that we have the will to reach agreement.
The Commission proposed 1.03% of the European national product for the 2003 budget.
I think that this should give us more chance to react quickly to crises and that this is an important step on the road towards a clear, efficient common foreign and security policy.
And yet the Council has awarded itself a much higher increase.
And if you add in all the Council's administrative expenditure, the Council has awarded itself an 11% increase.
The Council has allowed itself 236 new posts in order to prepare for enlargement.
Parliament drafted a model here which was then enshrined in an agreement.
This model requires efforts to be made to frontload certain administrative expenses in 2002, so as to have funds available for Commission staff costs in order to prepare for enlargement.
I must therefore insist on the Commission's behalf that we take stock in October in order to ascertain whether this frontloading model is working or, if it is not, whether new decisions need to be taken.
The Commission is counting on the European Parliament, it is confident that the European Parliament will not state that it is satisfied with the resolution passed in July alone and will check to ensure the Council is also making an effort to implement this frontloading model.
I would like to concentrate on one or two specific political issues.
Therefore we agreed to a deal that would bring benefits for Parliament and the other institutions and a sensible approach to Category 5, not as the Commission wanted.
If there are problems with enlargement because of what has occurred, then the Commission needs to convince the Council, not us, of its needs regarding staffing levels, because some of us are actually convinced.
My other political point concerns the common foreign and security policy.
The amount in this year's budget was EUR 30 million; the amount in the PDB was EUR 40 million and the amount entered in the Council's first reading is EUR 47.5 million.
We made no agreements on that and, as far as we are concerned, we stick by Article 39 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
That figure as it stands right now should be EUR 30 million.
That is not to say that, come our second reading, the figure may well be EUR 47.5 million but, for the sake of this debate and to clarify issues, our argument is that the Council put the wrong figure in: it should be EUR 30 million.
Let us not forget that there are problems in other categories also.
In Category 2, the EUR 27 million entered for the restructuring of the fleet is not going to appear by magic.
Mr President, thank you ladies and gentlemen and, especially, a big thank-you to the Danish Presidency.
We must use the opportunities to the full, especially when we face so incredibly important a task as enlargement.
The problem, however, is that, through the commitments made in the budget, we have also decided upon a certain level of ambition to which we must try to rise.
That must also be a goal for the Member States and the Council.
We wish to signal that more must be done, and we must invest greater resources in order actually to fulfil the promises made.
I believe that we shall be conducting a debate along these lines in Parliament this year too.
As I have already mentioned, we must therefore discuss the Commission's staff resources in a slightly longer term perspective.
This problem of payments and implementation also looms very large when it comes to foreign policy and aid policy.
In 2000, Kosovo was added to the list, and there was subsequently a slight loss of interest in fulfilling the earlier promises concerning Africa and Latin America.
In 2001, Serbia was the new concern, whereupon there was slightly less interest in the former priorities.
This year, we are discussing Afghanistan, the Middle East and the police force for Bosnia.
There are already huge cut-backs in the budget in connection with Kosovo, humanitarian aid etc.
That, I believe, is one reason why EU money is not in actual fact being spent.
Mr President, I believe these are some of the most important aspects we shall be continuing to discuss in Parliament, in the Committee on Budgets and in future budget debates.
Ever since early last winter, when we began work on the 2003 budget, my objective, as rapporteur and as a person responsible for next year's budgets for eight of the EU institutions, has at any rate been to find a solution in which the EU's administrative budget is balanced and in which we do not have to ask for extra money by making use of what is known as the flexibility instrument.
With the agreement made on 19 July by the EU's two budget authorities - the Council and Parliament - it has nonetheless proved to be possible.
The flexibility instrument must not be used for the EU's administrative budget.
Following the conciliation, there is now a common commitment to solve the remaining problems in category 5 by means of what is known as frontloading.
Doing so is important in that a number of problems remain to be solved during the last months of the year.
I am nonetheless convinced that we shall also be able to solve them.
In this context, it would be very easy to allow one's vision to be clouded by all the details, and the budget work is certainly extremely detailed.
Together, we have nonetheless created better basic conditions for proceeding further with the historic task of, in a few years' time, welcoming MEPs from perhaps ten new Member States to this Parliament and to the EU's other institutions.
As early as the beginning of next year, these countries will be able to send observers to what will also become their own Parliament.
With the result of the agreement, we are complying not only with our commitments but also with the priorities decided upon by the Committee on Budgets and Parliament at the beginning of this year.
A rather more humble attitude may in actual fact be necessary in the future.
I hope and believe that, in this respect, the Danish Presidency has played a positive role which will have lasting effects in the future.
Thank you very much, Mr Stenmarck.
The debate is closed.
The following questions are addressed to the Commission.
Given the importance of the subject, migration is one of the five priorities of the country strategy paper covering the period 2002 to 2006 for financial cooperation with Morocco.
This comprehensive approach is also reflected in our MEDA programming.
Morocco and the EC have also agreed to cooperate in preventing and combating illegal migration.
As a first step, a border management programme will help the Moroccan authorities to establish greater border security and to fight trafficking in human beings.
This programme, which is worth about EUR 40 million, will be committed in 2003.
This region also benefited from substantial MEDA funding and another EUR 70 million are programmed for socio-economic development in 2004.
The majority of the existing projects in the northern provinces help improve the economic situation of migrant as well as non-migrant women, in particular through basic education for girls in rural areas, maternal and child health services, promotion of productive activities for women and provision of basic infrastructures.
In addition to MEDA, the Commission is financing projects under the budget line 'cooperation with third countries in the area of migration'.
EUR 3.3 million have been committed for projects in Morocco, in particular in the areas of co-development, intergovernmental migration dialogue and the fight against illegal immigration.
Mr President, the extended feed ban remains in force as a transitional measure until 30 June 2003.
The Commission services are already carefully examining the potential impact of different options for revising the feed ban but it is too early to predict the outcome of that exercise.
The FVO reports highlight the considerable efforts made by Member States to implement the rules.
The new control framework created by the animal by-products regulation opens up the possibility of revising the present prohibition on the use of meat-and-bone meal.
The Commission is co-financing a research programme with two main objectives: firstly, harmonisation of the feed ban controlled by classical microscopy as well as improving its efficiency and secondly the development and validation of new methods based on alternative techniques.
The Commission is following the results of this research programme as well as private initiatives in this field closely and will take the results into account when reviewing the feed ban.
I still take the view that we need a total feed ban on meat and bonemeal at least until we can determine how infectious the prions responsible for the outbreak of BSE are and until we can define different types of bonemeal for each type of animal.
The first is the question of meat-and-bone meal.
As I said, the fundamental consideration in putting in place the ban on meat-and-bone meal is public health and the protection of animals.
The need for these controls arises in circumstances where there might be a relaxation of the ban on meat-and-bone meal, but not for feeding to ruminants.
The problem is that if the rule on the feeding meat-and-bone meal to poultry, for instance, is relaxed, there is a risk that meat-and-bone meal intended to be fed to poultry or pigs might ultimately reach ruminants, creating the very danger that we are trying to obviate.
Therefore I do not see the ban on meat-and-bone meal being relaxed in the short term.
However, this can be reviewed in the context of the TSE regulation, in particular Chapter 4, where an amendment can be made by comitology.
The primary considerations are the protection of animals and public health and the ban can never be relaxed for the purposes I have identified unless we can be absolutely sure that the controls in place in Member States do not create the risk instead of obviating it.
The issue of possible links between Crohn's disease and paratuberculosis was reviewed by the Scientific Committee of Animal Health and Animal Welfare in its report adopted on 21 March 2000.
In addition, the Commission has funded a project, SACROHN - improvement of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of sarcoidosis and Crohn's disease, which commenced on 1 October 2000.
The total cost of the project is EUR 3 million.
The project duration is 36 months.
No concrete results are available from that source to confirm any link between MAP and Crohn's disease.
Efforts are also focused on using molecular typing techniques to establish any possible links between ruminant sources of MAP and the aetiology of Crohn's disease.
The project continues until October 2003.
There is increasing evidence - though I agree, for the moment at least, with Commissioner Byrne that it is not conclusive - that there is a link between the presence of these bacteria in pasteurised milk and the incidence of Crohn's disease.
The most obvious step would be for the Commission to extend the period of pasteurisation from 15 seconds at the appropriate temperature to 25 seconds.
We are now going to start the second part of this Question Time.
You know that we dedicate twenty minutes to each Commissioner.
The more we speak on each question, the fewer questions can be put and the fewer answers given.
As the honourable Member is aware, the principle of contract freedom applies to companies offering financial services.
Compulsory no-claims bonus systems violate the principle enshrined in the directives.
Turning to the question raised by the honourable Member in connection with the possible increase in the number of uninsured vehicles, I should like to draw your attention to Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the First Motor Insurance Directive.
This new proposal, the Fifth Directive, does not infringe the fundamental principle of tariff freedom.
The main objectives are to update and improve the framework of compulsory insurance to protect the victims of car accidents, to plug gaps and to clarify some of the provisions in the directives.
The Commission is doing everything it can to improve the efficiency of the internal market for insurance.
The Commission is convinced that greater competition will lead to lower prices and a wider choice of products for the consumer.
Secondly, I should like to make the point that the very function of competition is to ensure that prices are as keen as possible.
Question No 39 by Michl Ebner (H-0549/02): Subject: Derogations from the rules on competition for pilot projects The operating concession for the A22 Brenner motorway between Modena and the Brenner Pass has not yet been granted by the Italian authorities, apparently because of reservations expressed by the Commission.
Indeed, the doubts which my services and I raised on the subject of the aforementioned project concern exclusively the extension up to 2035 of the motorway concession for the Brenner in the absence of any competition.
The Italian authorities themselves have recently taken a similar position while committing themselves to proposing solutions which could at the same time meet the requirements for development of the project and the need to comply with Community law.
With the aim of not disrupting the implementation of this project, the competent authorities and my services are in close contact in order to find an appropriate solution.
The Italian Government sent a message of support through Minister Buttiglione, until recently a Member of this House, and it is to be hoped that this pilot project, which could set an example and which your colleague, the Commissioner for transport, thinks is a positive move, will be seen as such and an exception will be granted.
I have discussed this matter on various occasions with Minister Buttiglione and also with some Members of this Parliament.
May I add that this concerns an extension for quite a long time - about 33 years - and thus this project falls under the rules of public procurement and thus competition must play a role in the award of the contracts.
After all, competition means that prices will be lower than would otherwise have been the case and also that advantages will accrue to, I assume, the Italian public or at least the Italian State and therefore indirectly to the Italian public.
Therefore we should all be in favour of more competition in the award of such immense contracts.
The fact that there is a possible cross-subsidisation in favour of rail transport is an aspect which is perfectly defensible.
If one motorway company has saved money over a number of years in order to be able to offer a better solution, then my question is, why can we not leave it to the motorway companies to decide if they wish to offer technical alternatives in order to improve traffic across the Alps?
The Commission's only responsibility is to see to it that, whatever the nature of the contract, whatever it may say about, for instance, new technical solutions or cross-subsidisation, competition is allowed and other economic actors have the chance to bid for the contract.
If the present contractor were allowed to continue his concession until the year 2035, there would be no competition and that would damage the true interests of the Italian people.
Mr Ferri, although I hope your point of order does not serve as a precedent for other speeches, I would reiterate your greeting on behalf of the whole of Parliament.
Question No 40 by Paul Rübig (H-0579/02): Subject: Non-recognition of European standards relating to solar thermal collectors and systems Uniform European standards for the testing of solar thermal products have been in force for about a year now.
The EN standards applying to these products are voluntary standards.
Any national regulations that require compliance with national standards and testing procedures if subsidies are to be granted must be assessed in the light of Articles 28-30 of the Treaty.
It follows from these articles, as interpreted by the Court of Justice, that the principle of mutual recognition applies not only to technical manufacturing specifications, but also to any testing procedures to which products may have been subjected in another Member State of the European Union or in a state that is a signatory to the agreement on the European Economic Area.
This principle also applies to any certificates issued for products following these testing procedures.
There is another judgment dated 28 January 1986 concerning type approval for woodworking machines.
This means that Member States may not needlessly require technical or chemical analyses or tests if the same analyses or tests have already been carried out in another Member State and the results are available or may be obtained on demand.
On the basis of the information which the honourable Member has provided, the Commission will launch an enquiry into this matter and, if necessary, will initiate proceedings against the states in question under Article 226 of the Treaty.
Should an infringement be established, the Commission would also examine what conclusions should be drawn in the light of Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty.
I thank the Commissioner for his clear analysis and for clarifying the intention of the Commission, in its capacity as Executive, to really assert itself here and help this principle gain acceptance.
Since the time allotted to questions to the Commissioner has elapsed, Questions Nos 41 and 42 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, since direct talks began on 16 January 2002, the leaders of both communities have tabled proposals on the four core issues.
They will contain a detailed analysis of what progress the candidate countries have made in meeting the accession criteria and will be the basis for the Commission's recommendations on the countries which meet all the accession criteria.
Accession agreements should be signed in the spring of 2003 and ratified by the national parliaments in the following months.
Before accession agreements are signed, the Council will decide on the accession of the candidate countries after consulting the Commission and after receiving the assent of the European Parliament, as required under Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union.
I thank the Commissioner for his reply and the stand which he has taken on this matter.
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could confirm to us that, while the European Union and the Commission will support every effort to find a political solution, the main stumbling block to which, as we all know, is the intransigence of the Turkish and Turkish Cypriot side, the Republic of Cyprus will not be barred from the first wave of new countries to join the European Union if no solution can be found.
They stand to gain the most from a political solution and the accession of Cyprus.
But they stand to lose the most if no political solution can be found.
I should like to put two questions to you.
The impression we get is that the Commission and the Council, the European Union in general, has not explored every feasible way of exerting pressure on Turkey.
Which is why it is the established policy of the European Union - and that applies to everyone, Council, Parliament and Commission - to support the efforts of the United Nations with every means at our disposal.
Question No 44 by Konstantinos Hatzidakis (H-0574/02): Subject: Cyprus and accession negotiations What is the Commission's view of the progress of negotiations on the accession of Cyprus, and how might the inter-community dialogue on the Cyprus issue influence them?
Of the 31 chapters, 28 have been provisionally closed.
However, it has also pointed out that a political solution is not a sine qua non to the accession of Cyprus to the Union, if the Cyprus question has not been settled by the time negotiations come to an end.
The decision will be taken by the Council, taking account of all the relevant factors.
If a settlement is reached and Cyprus accedes as a united country, the European Union is prepared to make a huge financial contribution towards the rapid development of the northern part of the island in the run up to accession.
Commissioner, I think that the European Commission really has taken a constructive and positive approach to the integration of Cyprus and the resolution of the Cyprus problem and I welcome that.
The Commission will table a report on 16 October containing its appraisal of whether the candidate countries with which we are currently engaged in negotiations are ready to accede.
As you know, ten countries have been named, including Cyprus, with which we hope to complete negotiations by the end of this year.
The Commission will then state on 16 October whether or not this judgment still applies.
Question No 45 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0538/02): Subject: Enlargement, women and fundamentalism With regard to the enlargement countries and with a view to averting situations where religious organisations encroach upon areas that are the competence of the public authorities, what measures will the Commission apply to prevent human rights being restricted as a result of pressure from fundamentalists and to ensure that women can exercise their rights freely?
The Commission takes the view that future Member States have achieved a good level of democratic stability and that human rights, and that includes religious freedom, are respected in future Member States.
In theory, as far as equal opportunities for women are concerned, we have made considerable progress from a legislative and institutional point of view in all future Member States, but obviously more needs to be done to foster economic and social equality for women.
Mr President, has the Commission ascertained on which issues and in which countries these invasions of the public sphere by ecclesiastical powers are taking place?
It is part of the communication strategy which we are implementing together with Parliament in order to make citizens in future Member States aware of all aspects of future Community law, especially human rights and the rights of individuals and groups.
The Treaty needs to be ratified because, otherwise, it will be very hard to conclude the enlargement process by the planned dates.
The Commission would remind the House that the European Council in Seville in June 2002 welcomed the Irish Government's determination to get the Treaty of Nice ratified in Ireland.
You said, first of all, that you should not get involved in telling people what you will do if the Irish people vote against and that, if there was an alternative, the Irish people would want to know what that alternative was.
Mr Prodi said that the Treaty of Nice is not legally necessary for enlargement.
As the time allocated to the Commissioner is at an end, Question No 47 will be answered in writing.
Question No 49 by Manuel Medina Ortega (H-0546/02): Subject: Measures to restrict illegal immigration into the Canaries On the basis of the agreements adopted at the Seville summit, what measures does the Commission propose to restrict the massive influx of illegal immigrants into the Canary Islands.
Mr President, the June European Council in Seville was particularly important to the debate on combating illegal immigration, establishing deadlines for the implementation of the most significant operational measures in this fight laid down in the global plan proposed by the Commission and adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 28 February 2002.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council asked the Commission to undertake a viability study on this matter, in order to work out how to improve monitoring of the European Union's maritime borders.
The results of the study will be available at the beginning of 2003.
It should also be pointed out that the Community is supporting various projects in third countries, intended to combat illegal immigration.
The Community has contributed EUR 40 million of funding to this objective, to which the Moroccan authorities will add a further amount.
It should, furthermore, be mentioned that the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 13 June approved an integrated approach in this field, which means that all the relevant instruments of the European Union's external relations structure will be used.
The Danish Presidency attaches particular importance to progress in the field of illegal immigration with regard to relations with third countries and to repatriation policy.
This will certainly help to speed up the implementation of future measures in this area.
And not only are they entering illegally by sea on boats, but they are also coming by air, in other words, many immigrants are coming to our region from other countries without any control whatsoever.
He referred to Morocco, but he said absolutely nothing about Mauritania; and I do not know whether the Commission is aware, for example, of the discovery of an illegal immigration network operating in Mauritania and on Spanish territory, and acting jointly.
The current study on sea borders is specific, since it complements the other one which has been produced by the Italian Government.
Finally, I would like to say that we are naturally prioritising the issue of Morocco, but I have taken good note of the information the honourable Member has given me on the issue of Mauritania and I am going to investigate that as well.
The members of TEAM Europe are selected by the representations of the Commission in each Member State on the basis of criteria that include experience, in-depth knowledge of European issues, languages, media training and availability.
In 2002 the Commission organised three training seminars in Brussels specifically for members of TEAM Europe.
There was a two-day seminar on the external relations of the European Union in which 80 TEAM members participated; a three-and-a-half-day seminar on enlargement in which 60 TEAM members participated; and a two-day seminar on the future of Europe, the post-Nice process and the European Convention, in which 103 TEAM members participated.
The introduction of a visa exemption for Macedonians would require the regulation to be amended, which only the Commission can propose, pursuant to the provisions of Article 67(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Communities.
The criteria for the inclusion of a country on the list of third countries for whose nationals a visa is mandatory or on the list of those nationals that are exempt from visa requirements are defined in the fifth recital of Regulation No 539/2001.
These criteria are not immutable.
The extent and the persistence of certain developments with regard to one particular country or another can lead the Commission to propose that the regulation be amended.
In order to undertake this task, the Commission makes use of a range of information from very diverse sources, paying particular attention to the data and statistics from the States Members that it collects from actions undertaken by certain specialised working groups in the Council.
In this context, it should be pointed out that the Seville European Council of 21 and 22 June asked the Council and the Commission, within the scope of their respective competences, to give absolute priority to certain measures in the fight against illegal immigration.
In this exercise of revising the regulation, the Commission will certainly take account of all information relevant to the situation in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in light of the criteria laid down in recital 5 of the aforementioned Regulation.
I even believe that Macedonia is currently adopting legislation on visas that is very similar to the legislation in force in the European Union, which is a significant and positive factor.
In order to gauge the progress made by Macedonia, however, we sent a delegation of experts last June as part of the regional CARDS programme.
The conclusions of this delegation and the report on the regulatory framework and its implementation with regard to granting visas and the control of Macedonia's external borders will be available in October 2002.
It is then that the Commission will assess the situation in Macedonia, in light of this report and the criteria of recital 5.
For now, I am unable to tell you what our assessment will be after receiving the report by the group of experts, which will be sent to me next month.
Question No 52 by Camilo Nogueira Román (H-0599/02): Subject: Visa requirements for people entering the EU from countries which have a special relationship with the Member States of the Union A significant proportion of the EU Member States have a special relationship and cultural ties with countries outside the Union, for example Portugal and Spain with the Latin American countries.
Any citizen holding nationality of a Member State has the right to move and settle freely throughout the territory of the Union's Member States, under the provisions laid down in Community law.
In the case of dual nationality, citizens can invoke laws arising from citizenship of the Union.
The Commission takes the view, therefore, that the existence of cases of dual nationality in relations between Spain, Portugal and various Latin American countries is covered by existing legislation.
The Member States' answers can provide a number of suggestions, on the basis of which the Commission will perhaps be able to present a proposal for an amendment to the regulation.
In any event, I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the countries you have mentioned already enjoy exemption from visa requirements and that the only countries in Latin America that are subject to these requirements are Colombia and Peru.
As the time allocated to Question Time is at an end, Questions Nos 53 to 81 will be answered in writing.
Mr President, the Commission has today adopted a communication on the rationalisation of the coordination of economic and employment policies.
We all know that the general coordination framework has become an increasingly more complex framework.
Too often new elements have been added as they became necessary and this situation has helped neither the coherence of the guidelines for the different policies nor the understanding of them.
With all of this in mind, the Commission makes concrete proposals in its communication to increase efficiency and coordination, to improve coherence and complementarity amongst the different processes and instruments, to stimulate our commitments and our 'ownership' in relation to a greater involvement by Parliament and social partners, and increase the transparency and understanding of policy coordination and therefore its visibility and effects.
These will be the key points which will make the coordination cycle more transparent and improve its effects.
On this basis, in the middle of March the spring European Council will produce some general political guidelines and at the beginning of April the Commission, with these guidelines in mind, will present its guidelines which will include both the broad guidelines of economic policy and the employment guidelines.
The second key point of the proposals presented today by the Commission is improving the efficiency of coordination.
The raft of guidelines will adopt a more differentiated medium-term perspective and will be reviewed in their entirety just once every three years.
The more strategic approach will give stability to the guidelines on the different policies and allow them to be better monitored.
Furthermore, coherence will be improved by greater clarity in the contents of the respective instruments and their synchronisation.
This better complementarity will strengthen the basic political messages.
The Commission suggests that this rationalisation be implemented quickly and the first raft of new guidelines should be updated at the spring European Council of 2003, with the Commission presenting its first implementation assessment package at the beginning of 2004.
Consequently, the new cycle will be completely under way before the elections to this Parliament.
In addition to these improvements which will begin to operate by the 2003 cycle, the Commission has proposed a series of amendments relating to the law currently in force in the Treaties, aimed at the coordination of economic policies.
Your contributions and participation are a sign of your commitment to the common guidelines for the different policies and to an improvement in economic and social results.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during last year's debate on the employment package, Parliament made a clear demand for procedures to be streamlined.
Secondly, we now have a medium-term time frame and that is important.
The third point is that this exercise has a clear objective: to achieve greater cohesion between the two policies.
Obviously there is a division of roles between the two policies.
The economic guidelines provide the general framework, the framework within which the employment guidelines move, but it is the employment guidelines that define the more detailed framework and objectives and propose individual strategies.
My next point concerns better governance of economic and social policies, which is also one of the items on the agenda of the Convention set up to revise the Treaty.
What we want to show is that, while we respect the autonomy of each policy as defined in the Treaty, we also have the facility to set a single economic framework for the Union.
I think that, as far as the European Parliament is concerned, things will be much clearer and much more transparent because both dossiers will take account of all the basic aspects of economic and structural policy in practice, at a given time and in a coordinated manner.
Our aim is to ensure that, with this new framework, we can cooperate efficiently with Parliament.
The Lisbon Summit foresaw a key coordinating role for the European Council itself.
My second concern is that the first and last mention of Parliament is in May, in relation to the employment guidelines.
Mr President, thank you for that information we have received from the Commission.
It was brief, as it presumably needs to be in this context.
Two processes are discussed, but I believe that three processes need to be talked about, namely the economic process, the employment process and the process of social inclusion.
Mr President, I am going to try to respond quickly to the problems that affect me most directly and leave to Anna Diamantopoulou the problems which fall more within her competence.
In fact, we will go to the spring Council with a position on guidelines for the different processes.
Therefore, what we are achieving is the opposite: that the various Councils work in a direction which has already been previously defined.
Nevertheless, we believe that the new procedure allows Parliament to take two types of action.
In this respect, we believe that the situation is clearly improving.
The position of national parliaments must be decided by each Member State, although the Commission advocates the idea that, both in the broad guidelines for economic policy, and in issues relating to the stability programmes, the national Parliaments should be involved.
Finally, it is true that there is basic coordination between the broad guidelines of economic policy and employment, but also with the Cardiff Process and the other processes which can affect economic policy.
So that we have clear, specific guidelines on employment, within the framework of the general guidelines, with objectives and procedures attached to them.
But one thing is clear and that is that the political will is there and that the procedures are being designed so that we can move in this direction.
We cannot ask for better coordination of the Member States' economic policies without also calling for an improvement in the coordination process for economic, social and sustainable development policies at European Union level.
Three years is a long time, however, for a Parliament with a five-year mandate and a Commission that also has a life expectancy of five years.
We have the internal market.
In his introduction Commissioner Solbes talked about sustainable growth, which is not the same as sustainable development - some growth can destroy the environment and jobs and is not particularly sustainable.
Mr Goebbels, in order to clarify the position we have presented the issue very quickly.
Clearly, the results produced each year, and the modification we will have to introduce bearing in mind what is happening in the economy, will have to be debated each year, and we will have to make annual modifications, but on the basis of a fundamental model which will be in force for three years.
I have said twice that our intention with this Communication is to rationalise and coordinate the instruments of economic policy without changing the law.
We are talking about how to take better advantage of the possibilities offered by the Treaties.
I think working in the context of the longer term is fine, but adjustments must remain possible from time to time.
The timetable now provides for new guidelines to cover a period of three years: 2003 to 2006.
My fellow MEP Stephen Hughes has already commented on this in the context of the Ecofin Council.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the Commission for its proposals, but I would also like to draw attention to a subject which is inextricably linked to the improvement of economic and employment policy coordination, and that is the debate, which is quite heated in some Member States, on the Stability Pact and the flexibility thereof.
Mr President, I should like to ask the Commission how it intends to guarantee that economic, social and employment policies will be coordinated, as defined in the Lisbon process, and pursued in a democratically legitimate manner if it rejects changes to the Treaty within the framework of the Convention.
I would firstly like to answer the question on the relationship between the processes of the Commission and of Parliament.
If we do not talk about five years, the problems the honourable Member mentions will always exist.
However, I believe that the concern is that two or three years raises the problem, as does four years.
Contradictions in the process are precisely what we are trying to prevent, for a very simple reason: the process starts with the Commission, with a position which must be consistent; that position must be decided on or approved by the European Council; the Ecofin Councils and the Employment Council will have to work on the guidelines produced by the spring European Council, and it will be the June European Council that finally accepts guidelines which must be consistent amongst themselves and consistent with what the European Council itself has proposed.
Therefore, this type of incoherence should not arise.
The Stability Pact is part of Community legislation.
This does not mean that the Commission is insensitive to the experience which the Pact has provided us with and that it has not proposed - the Commission itself - a series of interpretative elements in accordance with economic developments, including such important elements as, for example, taking account of the cyclically adjusted budgets in order to assess the reality in terms of the possibility of achieving the nominal objectives laid down in the stability programmes.
I believe that the process has all the legitimacy available at the moment; in fact it has even more, given that not only the sectoral Councils are involved in these decisions, but also the European Council at the beginning and the end of the process and, secondly, not only is the current commitment maintained, or the current participation of the European Parliament, but the intention is to increase it.
The honourable Member raises another problem: what type of modification of the Treaty can be considered in the future with a view to greater participation by the European Parliament in this process?
We cannot update the Lisbon procedures in one fell swoop.
I think that the success of this proposal lies in the fact that it sets medium-term objectives - I mentioned 2010.
They leave cyclical changes out of account, which is why medium-term objectives are much more significant and help governments to focus their efforts and apply specific objectives.
The debate is closed.
But for over 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises, it spells mortal danger from unfair trading by large retailers who, by selling below cost, could wipe out thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and minimise any possible competition.
That is why, if we want to say that we represent the millions of workers and businesses in the European Union, if we want to maintain that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the European economy and society, if we want to carry on claiming that we are in touch with reality, then we need to vote against below cost selling in tomorrow's vote.
I think that excesses in competition law such as we saw at the start of the year in Germany, when a firm wanting to offer a 20% discount was prohibited from doing so by a court order, will be a thing of the past.
Above all, the regulatory approach makes it possible to create a legal framework on the basis of which the consumer and other market actors can obtain sufficient information to be able to make informed decisions.
I therefore welcome the intervention by the Committee on Legal Affairs and its amendments allowing each Member State to introduce or probably maintain bans on below cost selling in their legislation.
Five countries in the European Union already have this sort of legislation, including Greece, where law 2941, adopted in 2001, basically guarantees trading standards and bans below cost selling.
Under the Commission text, this law would violate Community legislation.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I believe that the draft regulation currently before Parliament is to be welcomed because, although it is true that promotional sales are a topical issue and represent a very considerable share of the market, it is also true that there are still national laws in force imposing restrictions on promotions, particularly on discounts, which, in actual fact, jeopardise the consolidation of the internal market.
I feel that the Commission has presented us with a well-balanced text which will provide an appropriate solution to the problem of the absence of a genuine internal market for promotions and promotional sales and of the market being governed by a variety of different laws which ban in some countries behaviour which is permitted in others.
I fear that some of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market are in danger of diminishing the effectiveness of this text.
I refer, in particular, to Amendments Nos 29 and 32, which, although intended to safeguard the principle of subsidiarity, are, in actual fact, in danger of rendering the regulation's provisions and proposals on the specific case of discounts ineffective.
Mr President, I warmly welcome, on behalf of my colleagues in the United Kingdom Conservative Party, this very elegant and simple proposal for reform of the single market.
It will perhaps surprise colleagues that the regulatory content of this regulation before us occupies eight clauses and three pages and yet we had 200 amendments.
Part of the problem - I say this particularly to the Commissioner because I know he is sympathetic to this - is that despite the fact that the single market is at the centre of economic reform of the Lisbon goals, when a simple proposal for reform is put forward we are in the extraordinary position that a significant number of Member States oppose it and, indeed, Members seek to change and dilute it.
We are talking about an Internet world where people can shop all over the European Union and where businesses can put out offers to them.
In conclusion, I want to thank the Commissioner for the remarks he made in the commercial communication, where he said Parliament comes to rescue the internal market.
The fairness of commercial practices is an essential and absolute value for the construction and development of a healthier, fairer and more cohesive economy.
This practice is also responsible for promoting impulse purchases, which obviously present no advantages for consumers, and instead threaten their interests and change their scale of priorities.
The ban on irresponsible selling must, therefore, be maintained as a principle crucial to fair commercial practice.
The text approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is the result of skill and a spirit of dialogue, which has allowed broadly accepted compromises to be reached.
The result is a text which has been rebalanced in order to increase consumer protection, especially with regard to the information they are to be provided with, complaint procedures and the situation of minors, amongst others.
Also excluded are practices which are not of a commercial promotional nature, such as the operation of games of chance in the apparent form of sales promotion operations or sales at a loss or below cost.
I repeat that the latter is not a genuinely promotional practice, since its aim is not so much to protect the consumer as to eliminate market competitors, which at the end of the day benefits neither consumers, competition nor the good operation of the market.
And this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, must be taken into account when the Commission produces its article 7 report and when we try - as we are trying - to implement the common market.
Because the common market cannot be a means for extending practices which the majority of Member States consider to be prejudicial, for good reasons.
The impact of a liberalisation cannot be measured in purely economic terms, but we have to take account of all the factors that affect the common good, and consumer protection is something which cannot simply be left to the predatory practices of certain large companies.
We therefore feel that the solution adopted is appropriate and consequently the enormous majority of our Group - which is not ultra-liberal but rather is in favour of a social market economy - is going to support it.
Mr President, Commissioner, if our aim is to produce both legislation providing full legal certainty and, at the same time, rules which will allow the citizens to derive maximum benefits from the internal market, then the regulation before us is certainly a step in the right direction.
We have worked hard on this regulation, and the number of amendments cited by my colleagues and the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market too are evidence of the importance of what we consider to be a road that Europe must take without fail and which we want to build.
The internal market needs rules, and the rules must be evaluated in the context of everyday life.
The regulation broaches a number of extremely important issues.
I will not go back over those which have already been mentioned by my colleagues.
There is one point, for example, on which we would like there to be greater reflection and that is the settlement of disputes.
This group, set up in the dim and distant past in 1998, now needs to be adapted to deal with the increasingly urgent development of the internal market.
I have two questions for the Commissioner.
I should like to hear the Commissioner's opinion on the amendment in which we want to maintain the national provisions banning sales below cost, or in any case giving the Member States the opportunity to do so.
I wonder whether the Commissioner is fully aware that not all Member States have a legal culture that facilitates appeals to the competition authorities in order to resolve such problems.
Advertising in the individual Member States and, more to the point, cross-border advertising in Europe, is a difficult and tricky business nowadays.
With the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs, it will certainly do a great deal to help the cross-border marketing of goods and services in Europe.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed important amendments to the scope of the regulation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this proposed Regulation on sales promotions in the internal market will allow European companies to take better advantage of the removal of borders in order to carry out their economic activities.
I therefore believe that the proposal is very appropriate in order to humanise the national provisions on the communication of sales promotions.
Specifically I support Amendments Nos 27, 28, 29, 30 and 32 and I trust that the majority of this House will approve them and that the Commission will accept them.
Mr President, in my introductory remarks this morning I explained that the objections of this Parliament and of other groups in society concentrated on four different sectors, four different aspects of this subject.
It is for this reason that the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 30 tabled by Mrs Thyssen.
For that reason the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 8 as it is currently worded.
The Commission will propose a certain number of rules ensuring that the promoter acts in this regard.
Mr President, those are my replies to the questions and comments presented this morning and this evening.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
There is currently no regulation on block exemption in this field and the guidelines on this type of aid are based on a series of diverse communications which are not regulatory.
The fact that certain aid with clear criteria is being exempted from the obligation to notify, although those criteria may be insufficient, represents considerable progress in terms of transparency and legal certainty, which we must not fail to recognise.
All it implies is that such aid will have to be subject to notification, in order to analyse whether or not it contradicts the objectives of the Treaty.
And we must not forget that these objectives do not just include maintaining a system in which competition is not distorted, but also the promotion of employment.
Thirdly, certain possible scenarios should be stipulated in order prevent the administrations who grant the aid - particularly the regional authorities in the case of Spain and also in other Member States - from being subject to long procedures involving notification when granting aid aimed at promoting employment, especially in sectors in which workers are most affected by unemployment.
All these criteria, included in Amendment No 1 from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, are aimed directly at promoting employment in the least-favoured sectors, and their inclusion in the Regulation in no way distorts competition.
The comparison of the anti-competitive effects of this aid with other types of aid, if we analyse it soberly, is something of an insult to the intelligence.
We are not going to get into a debate here on public aid and its effects on competition, but, if there is any public aid worthy of being seen as compatible with the objectives of the Treaty, then that is the aid aimed at promoting employment.
Furthermore, it would be appropriate to include the social economy sector - in a general sense - as an exempt sector.
As all the honourable Members know, social economy companies provide a significant cushion in terms of maintaining employment when there is crisis in a sector, and that reality should be reflected in the Regulation.
Finally, in the report adopted certain paragraphs have been introduced in relation to the preference for employment flexibility measures over aid for the promotion of employment.
But, quite simply, the honourable Members will have to recognise that whatever the ideological position they hold, this is a strange and extravagant idea at this time, which should not appear in the report, since it relates to other issues.
To insist on it would imply an excessive interest in sending messages in favour of a certain action, which cannot be shared by important sectors, both in Parliament and in European society.
Given the employment situation in the Community, every aspect of employment represents, and must represent, an essential political priority.
I welcome Parliament's comments on this proposal, which seeks to reduce the administrative burdens on national authorities which employ State aid measures to respond to the challenge represented by employment.
As you are aware and as the rapporteur has just pointed out, the proposal concerns a fourth exemption regulation in the field of State aid, which follows on from the exemption regulations already in force in the areas of training, aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and de minimis aid.
The main aim behind all these regulations is to reduce the administrative burdens upon national authorities, exempting them from the obligation to notify measures which are clearly compatible with the internal market.
The proposal concerns the relationship between two essential Community objectives: employment and competition.
The draft regulation does not relate to these measures.
The regulation before us only concerns aid which is formally and explicitly linked to the achievement of employment objectives.
The text does more than just streamline the administrative requirements: it clarifies the fundamental rules which apply to employment aid too.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
The report and the underlying regulation seek to establish clearer and more transparent rules for state aid for employment.
Streamlined procedures for Member States wishing to aid employment schemes are to be welcomed and sensitivity to local circumstances is also desirable.
The report welcomes and expresses support for the state aid register, which the British Conservatives have made a priority.
It is vitally important that we keep track of the various Member States and their record on state aid.
In terms of general principles, we believe that it is vitally important to restrict the areas where state aid can be given.
We are, however, very wary about the degree of extension that can be accepted even in this case, because of our suspicion of state aids.
In particular paragraph (a) of Amendment No 1, which seems to specifically condemn temporary as opposed to permanent contracts, is not appropriate and should not be supported by the House.
Both the regulation and the report make sensible proposals, but it is vitally important that we address the key issue, which is labour market flexibility and economic reform.
It is interesting to note that national employment policies in the European Union have changed, gearing towards the common objectives of the employment strategy, with action plans being used as levers.
I think that, in the proposal before us, the Commission rightly recognises the need to allow state measures in the form of employment incentives for companies, especially for certain disadvantaged groups.
Which is why we must call for finishing touches in the form of a more flexible definition of which groups are to benefit.
I think that the age limit of 25 should be raised to 30 and that the age limit for older employees should be dropped from 55 to 50, because society relies on both, young people entering employment and older people remaining in employment.
One example of a very important issue is a fourth exemption regulation.
I hope that this base will broaden in the future, and that starting from the Spring summit in Athens we will pursue exchanges in an attempt to achieve common social and sustainability goals, considering what economic policy can contribute to this process rather than bringing matters which the Treaty describes as subordinate in line with economic policy.
State aid based on those Articles 87 and 88.
Those articles are very important in rechanneling back to the objectives of social policy, and that is why we must avoid any misunderstanding.
Support by the whole of Parliament for these amendments could well sway us to vote for this proposal as a whole.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, I think that the Commission's draft regulation illustrates perfectly that the view held by many members that employment policy always plays second fiddle to economic policy is simply not true.
There is no contradiction between competition policy, growth policy and the need to grant aid to certain sectors, as this regulation clearly illustrates.
Aid is no substitute for economic policy and a well-ordered employment policy.
We welcome this regulation because it says yes to systemisation, simplification and bundling, yes to control and transparency, with the help of the aid register, yes to regulated employment aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, the pillars of European economic and employment policy, and because it says yes to greater coordination between the Commission's policy and the policies of the Member States and between ministries in the Member States.
I am quite sure that if no changes are made to the regulation during the consultation process many Member States will have the greatest difficulty in achieving the ambitious objectives of the European employment strategy to which they committed themselves in Lisbon.
I am sure that greater flexibility and structural reforms will not suffice to solve these problems.
Another point: I am still concerned that the Commission fails to recognise the institutional reality of some Member States.
In a regulation which regulates employment measures in sectors which already have a great many problems and which need to diversify and to retrain their workforces, singling out the transport sector for absolute exclusion from the measure would appear to be something that the Commission might want to reconsider.
Mr President, I want to welcome Articles 5 and 6 of the draft regulation, which give a positive signal to Member State governments to support special arrangements for so-called reasonable accommodation to promote the employment of disabled workers.
However, I want to ask Commissioner Monti, in replying to the debate, to address the 400 000 disabled workers, such as those at Remploy in Southend in my constituency - and in other workplaces throughout Europe - where the company employs more than 50% of disabled workers unable to work in the open labour market.
I understand that the advisory committee on state aids has given an initial sympathetic response to this proposal.
Tonight I hope the Commissioner will reassure this Parliament and those many disabled people who are unable otherwise to attain a job in the open workplace that Europe will fully recognise their rights and their aspirations in its competition rules.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, in this report we are analysing the DAPHNE programme, its implementation, its achievements and its failings.
It is a programme to combat violence against women and children, essentially in the domestic environment.
This violence is a serious violation of their fundamental rights.
Violence against women results from the unequal relationship between men and women and the sex discrimination which exists in society.
The fight against violence requires an integrated approach which combines prevention, dealing with aggressors and support for victims.
The European Commission has carried out an exhaustive and rigorous mid-term assessment report on the programme, which allows us to make proposals for the future with a view to achieving the objective of 'zero violence'.
Violence against women and children takes place in all countries, regardless of class, race or level of education.
We must pay special attention to the prevention of violence, but also to the treatment and rehabilitation of aggressors in order to prevent re-offending.
We must involve all sectors of society in the fight against violence, and in particular the media, as opinion formers and instruments for the transmission of values, so that, by means of the media, a non-stereotypical image of women may be transmitted, also of children and of victims in general.
The NGOs have played an important role in the fight against violence, but the public institutions must also be involved - so far only 10% of the programmes have been implemented by them - as well as universities and study and research centres.
The Member States should update their legislation so that they have more appropriate instruments for combating violence.
Better police training in this field would be of great help.
Amongst these measures we propose a European Year for combating violence against women and children.
Finally, I would like to point to the need to change the legal basis of the Programme.
I particularly welcome the fact that the European Parliament acknowledges the success of the actions already undertaken and is warming to the idea that the programme must continue beyond 2003.
The Commission, for its part, is ready to present the text of the decision on the new Daphne programme, in line with the concerns expressed in the motion for a resolution.
I fully agree that violence against children and against women is an unacceptable breach of their rights as human beings.
Nevertheless, within the scope of the Treaties in their current state, the Commission has no alternative but to initiate actions against violence under Article 152.
This is the situation, regardless of the future position of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union, within the scope of the Treaty or outside it.
The success of this programme is clearly expressed in the large number of projects that have been submitted.
It must be acknowledged, however, that this sign of success is also a cause for concern.
It means that the number of violent situations and the number of cases of violence against women and children in the countries of the European Union is still very high.
Therefore, the rapporteur's request for an increased budget is in line with the observations made by the Commission, especially if we bear in mind the expected increase in work in this field, following the accession of the candidate countries.
In addition to the support given by this Parliament to the Daphne Programme, the suggestions contained in the motion for a resolution are useful and are fully in line with the discussions that have taken place in the Commission.
I am referring most specifically to the need for common indicators and to the need to undertake a more comprehensive collection of data on violence at European level, because this situation is often hidden from view and disappears in official statistics.
This is also a need felt by the Commission and future activity could be tied in with the current action of setting up a network of experts on fundamental rights.
However, the painful truth is that violence persists in our society, forcing us to adopt more radical and efficient measures, such as introducing a legal basis in the Treaty or organising a European year on this topic, as the rapporteur suggests.
And, over and above this objective, we need to encourage the whole of local society to get involved, as the Commissioner has already said.
Similarly, if we are to make better use of the programme, we need to look at it in relation to other, similar programmes, especially national programmes to reduce violence and help victims.
Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the Commission's mid-term review of the Daphne programme.
Daphne was born of an initiative by Commissioner Anita Gradin and the European Parliament and it is a perfect example of how, with huge personal commitment on the part of everyone involved in the programme and in implementing the project and clear political will, results can be achieved and new policies developed.
According to IOM estimates, 500 000 people are caught up in trafficking in the European Union every year, mainly women and children, while other women are at risk of genital mutilation.
Unfortunately, the central and eastern European countries are still not involved enough.
Russia, the Ukraine, Belorussia, nowhere is safe from this phenomenon, which also affects us here in the European Union.
I and my group think it is important that we build on our experience from the first half of the programme to strengthen synergies in the second half of Daphne.
We have achieved good results with our networks, with the NGOs, and these now need to be implemented in the Member States.
Especially domestic violence, one of the most common forms of violence, although one of the least visible, and which involves huge human, social and economic costs for all of society, in addition to being a threat to the safety, the physical integrity, the freedom and the dignity of women.
Hence the importance of an integrated approach enhancing the measures, actions and financial means which the Daphne programme provides for, but which are insufficient, as has also already been emphasised.
Furthermore, as the report states - and I must congratulate the rapporteur - in the European Union around 500 000 people per year, the majority of whom are women and children, are victims of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, which also requires more effective measures in the fight against all forms of violence and in supporting victims, including increasing the financial means that are currently earmarked for this purpose.
I should also like to draw attention, however, to the field of prevention, by creating more high-quality employment, better social provision and support and by paying greater attention to education against violence, by providing more information and improving promotion of women and children's rights.
I therefore urge the Commission, the Council and the Member States to take account of the proposals put forward by Parliament, capitalising on the experience gained since 1997 and presenting a new action programme with appropriate financial appropriations, and also counting on the full participation of the candidate countries and the creation of a common database to eliminate violence.
Mrs Avilés Perea expressed it very well.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on her work, on the figures and statistics presented, which, although there is a lack of homogenous data, reveal that violence against women and children is an extremely disturbing phenomenon.
Lastly, my group fully supports the idea of a European year of action to combat violence against women and children.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission because this is the result of perseverance and of having believed in something which had never before been dealt with.
To put it another way, Europe must create a minimum referential legal framework both for violence in the home and the obligation of the States to protect the victims and for trying to prevent the irreversible damage being done to children who are witnesses to horrors, minors who live in an atmosphere of fear and who cannot escape violence.
In this regard, I would ask for the implementation of a right for children which is binding for the Member States and that this obligation be taken into account when discussing the countries which are to join the European Union.
In the European Union, as members have already said, it is estimated that over 500 000 women and children are bought and sold every day and yet Europol only has three officers working on this international organised crime against women and children.
This means that violence is a global political problem of the first degree and must be tackled as such.
Mr President, at the moment I can do little more than thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for this excellent report.
I also thank the Commissioner for his response to the report and his commitment to renew this programme.
I am a patron of an organisation in Ireland called Women's Aid.
Mr President, I should like, first of all, to thank all the speakers for their contributions to this debate and to emphasise the political visibility given to this issue by the Spanish Presidency, which created a momentum which, I feel sure, will be maintained by the current Danish Presidency, during which I hope that the framework decision on the trafficking of women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation will finally be approved by the Council.
A clear, explicit and solid legal base in the Treaty would provide another lever for the funding of a project of this nature.
I sincerely hope that, with this debate, we might reach agreement on the joint efforts to be developed in the Convention so that the future Constitutional Treaty of the European Union enshrines the fight against violence towards women and children as an objective of the Treaty on European Union itself.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The purpose of the annual scoreboard for the implementation of the social policy agenda is to ascertain how much progress has been made towards the objectives laid down in Lisbon and Nice.
As part of its interim evaluation in 2003, the Commission must attempt to work out a different type of scoreboard and present it to Parliament.
The Commission knows full well that the European Parliament is the greatest advocate of the social aspect of European development, much more so than the Council of Ministers.
The Commission's document is dated 19 February 2002 and was approved at the Spring Summit in March.
Parliament needs at least 2 months to produce a report through its committees and plenary sessions, and that does not give us much time.
The success of this method lies in the fact that it has given us a way to coordinate the policy of the 15 Member States, to bring the 15 Member States behind a coherent set of objectives and to provide the 15 Member States with best practices to achieve those objectives.
This year, we have our first detailed scoreboard, containing a step by step analysis of the progress made in this particular policy area.
The period from 2003 to 2005 is also important.
There will be an initial progress report and we shall be able to make any changes deemed necessary.
It is more often than not Parliament which is the driving force behind the European Union in social policy.
I should like to comment on three points which I feel are instrumental to the debate.
First that, with cooperation between the Commission and the European Parliament, most of the social policy agenda initiatives planned for 2000 to 2002 have been brought to a successful conclusion or are under way.
Secondly, as has already been mentioned, we have found a modus operandi with the method of open cooperation between the Member States and, to a certain extent, a way of including the role of Parliament in this method.
The third point is that, as with the European Parliament, we need to find a legal basis for involving civil society in discussions in the Convention.
Around two-thirds of the new jobs which it is estimated will be created between 2002 and 2010 will be filled by women, which is why I was especially pleased, Commissioner, with your communication a short while ago about the new initiatives which you have taken on behalf of the Commission to coordinate economic policy and employment policy.
The scoreboard on the application of the Social Agenda must allow the progress made in terms of the application of that Agenda to be monitored, but it must also act as a rapid alarm call when there are delays in the implementation of the measures announced.
I am referring to the new forms of work, with the new risks inherent in them and therefore the concern about the forms of participation in productive processes by means of productive externalisation or decentralisation - subcontracting, the presence of freelancers, independent workers - in the field of the risks of the contracting company, etc.
Hence the need for the application of measures aimed at preventing risk - inherent in all forms of work, but sometimes imperceptible and blurred in the context of these new forms of production - being converted into work accidents.
Mr President, I want to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and indeed congratulate Commissioner Diamantopoulou for her very excellent work in this area of social policy.
Unfortunately we do not have to vote on these issues at this stage.
I have to say, however, that progress seems to have considerably slowed down since then.
If they are serious about Europe and creating a Europe of states and peoples, then we must ensure that equality, cohesion and solidarity rule right across the Union.
I welcome the idea of a mid-term review for early next year and I look forward to participating in it.
Like Mr De Rossa, I approve of what happened in Lisbon.
At the same time, I am rather uneasy about the signals which have been produced in the course of last year and which I see in terms of attempts to throw the Lisbon process off balance.
If the method is to be employed for a long time, it must be subject to democratic control and be debated both here in the European Parliament and in the national parliaments.
Hence the importance of the annual assessment panel, enabling the European Parliament to monitor and control the implementation of the Social Agenda, analysing the past and programming the future.
Employment is the European Union's number one priority.
In 2000, the employment rate reached 63.2%.
Poverty and social exclusion are other issues that deserve increased attention.
More than 60 million people are living at risk of poverty.
This phenomenon varies, as is known, between Member States, but we are not mistaken in considering the fight against poverty and exclusion and their eradication to be the greatest challenge facing us.
Therefore, the Commission must speed up the works that are underway in the aim of understanding and assessing the phenomenon, paying particular attention to women.
Consequently, the Commission must propose measures to improve the situation of women and, in parallel, to adopt initiatives to promote their full participation in decision-making in the workplace.
The report looks more like a routine job than a fundamental approach.
Then there is the outstanding question of cooperation with and the involvement of the social partners and the Economic and Social Committee and the subject and results of social dialogue, although I was pleased to hear the Commissioner refer to efforts to start up a dialogue with civil society.
So we need to make more of an effort with the form and content of the mid-term review, which the European Parliament expects to receive before the next spring Council because, as you know, Commissioner, it wishes to play a part in shaping social Europe, and rightly so.
The debate is closed.
Hence my vote in favour of this report.
