Crisis in agricultural sectors other than the dairy sector (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the crisis in agricultural sectors other than the dairy sector.
Official estimates of agricultural income will only be available at the end of this week, but we can already expect that the income will show a significant drop in 2009 compared to the previous year, given the relative development in the cost of production and the agricultural market prices.
After the initial fall that we saw in autumn 2008, this renewed drop in agricultural income can be expected to more than write off the exceptional income increases generated by the hikes that we saw in agricultural products starting in summer 2007 and then one year later.
Prices this year are lower than last year, but at the same time - and sometimes we have to look at it from the positive side - we can see that feed prices are much more stable than back in 2007 and 2008.
Nevertheless, I think that it is good for us to highlight the situation of these farmers today, too.
Commissioner, you said that the financial and economic crisis has affected the whole of the agricultural sector and that we ought to consider how we can respond to this.
The problem next year will be Brazil: they have streamlined their approval system down to 22 months, and the problem will not go away.
The next few years will be crucial in terms of where our agriculture is heading.
We need reliable planning in agriculture, and agricultural policy must be sustainable.
The prices are falling for farmers, but not for consumers.
Constant pressure on prices in the agricultural sector will lead to poor quality produce.
Ever greater industrialisation in the agricultural sector will result in the continued loss of biodiversity, and industrialised agriculture will also increase CO2 and methane emissions.
However, Commissioner, this is not the result of a technical problem, but of the policy of deregulation that you have pursued, of the undermining of the fundamental principles of the common agricultural policy, your refusal to return to paying minimum prices for work and your comprehensive free-trade approach that goes against the very principle of Community preference.
A new agricultural policy must also therefore be a food, environmental and territorial policy.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis that the agricultural world is enduring is the obvious result of the rapid territorial expansion that the European Union set in motion in recent years and, above all, the excessively quick globalisation of the markets.
The agricultural sector must be safeguarded and protected, by applying the principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular, Articles 32 to 38, with particular reference to the objectives which, in order to be achieved, must follow specific legal rules.
In this sector, the rules that govern intervention in the event of a market crisis do not allow us to make a significant response to the requirements of the agricultural sector with specific protection of farmers, at an extremely difficult time that affects agriculture as a whole and, in particular, the fruit and vegetable sectors, such as, for example, apples and peaches, and cereals, such as wheat and maize.
By creating specific rules, which must, though, be respected by the whole European Union and which we must ensure are also respected by those third countries with which we have significant trade in agricultural products, we will perhaps be able to begin having a market that is less distorted and could better protect our farmers and the EU's agricultural products. (EL) Madam President, sectors of the rural economy are really suffering: wheat, olive oil, fruit and vegetables and cotton.
I need only tell you that, as we speak, approximately 200 000 tonnes of peach compost have remained unsold.
The situation in the wheat sector is still critical and the facility for public intervention in the Member States needs to be activated at once.
We need more measures to promote agricultural products, both within the European Union and outside Europe, in third countries.
This has been caused not only by the global economic crisis and recession, along with a contraction of domestic and external markets, but also by the common agricultural policy, a neo-liberal policy which the European Commission has continued to pursue in previous years.
The current situation is particularly alarming for livestock farmers, pig farmers and producers of fruit and vegetables.
The uncertainty that this zero-tolerance policy creates has resulted in steeply increased insurance premiums for shippers that get passed on to the livestock producer - to say nothing of the angst generated when a producer is informed that his feed order cannot be fulfilled.
In particular, the crisis that has been affecting wheat in recent months has now brought prices down to the point where they are too low to cover costs and, in many regions of Europe, there is a reduction in the areas sown for the current year, which should be 30%, especially in remote areas that have limited possibilities in terms of alternative usage.
The same could also be said for olive oil and for other sectors, but I believe that at this point, it is important to ask the Commission for a package of proposals, for an exhaustive proposal that covers all the other sectors which, apart from milk, have still not seen specific action to deal with the crisis we are experiencing. (ES) Madam President, the agricultural sector has not been immune to the difficulties suffered by the economy in general.
The whole sector is in a difficult situation: with low prices at source for the majority of products and many farms whose figures are beginning to fall below the profitability threshold.
What I am asking is for common support measures to be put together, and for the solutions not to revolve around the capacity of each Member State to respond. (DE) Madam President, firstly, I would like to say that I am very grateful that we are debating this item today, because from the media, you might get the impression that the crisis has only been in the dairy sector.
That was, and is, not the case, and it is therefore extremely important for the farmers affected that we discuss their situation in the European Parliament today.
The economic crisis has hit farmers hard.
In any crisis, there is also an opportunity, and it is of precisely these opportunities that we must make greater use.
In this regard, I await a catalogue of measures from the Commission at the beginning of 2010 that we can then debate in detail in the committee responsible. (PT) Commissioner, I would like to thank you for being here in this Chamber again - that has been a constant throughout your mandate - even though the Commission is in this transitional phase.
The agricultural crisis of 2009 is having a much more detrimental effect on farms than the indices reveal.
They would like from the Commission a guarantee that they will not be required to change those cages again for a considerable period of time, and again I would encourage the Commission to look into this. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that the agricultural sector is going through is extremely serious and is in danger of becoming irreversible.
Finally, Madam President, we cannot ignore the fact, either, that we must also be able to negotiate with the United States - particularly with regard to the price of wheat, which is fixed in Chicago - because we are dealing with a global issue and not just a European one. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, it concerns me that frequently a lack of coordination means that sustainability criteria are not applied to agriculture.
These objectives must therefore be pursued in all policy fields and, of course, in particular in the area of agriculture.
Thank you, Mr Kelly.
Therefore, in the short term, the aim must surely be to find a solution to this crisis.
However, in Parliament, it is our job to demonstrate our new role to our farmers.
We need to find democratic solutions for our future agricultural policy.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I will now try to respond to some of the questions raised, but I think this discussion here clearly shows that there is a common understanding of the difficulties that our agricultural sector is facing.
The Council presented 39 different proposals, and we can actually accept quite a number.
Therefore, the idea that we should now protect our own production would be damaging for our agricultural sector.
Written statements (Rule 149) The economic and financial crisis has also dragged us into a farming and social crisis, and I therefore welcome this debate in Parliament, although it has come rather late.
Producers (of cereals, pork, olive oil, fruit, vegetables, etc.) are experiencing extremely difficult conditions at the moment due to the slump in demand, and they are getting very low prices for their products compared with their production costs.
