I have on several occasions, notably in my joint letter with my colleague, Louis Michel, to the chair of the Development Committee of 26 March, reiterated our commitment to carefully examining the committee's observations on the strategy papers in the preparation of the annual action programmes and in the implementation of our projects and programmes.
Some of them have already been forwarded to you and the remaining ones will be sent to you by this autumn in conformity with Article 8 of the Comitology Decision.
The annual action programmes under approval for 2007 confirmed this.
Please rest assured that you will receive detailed information on your observations when we send you the annual action programmes in the framework of your droit de regard under comitology.
I am glad also to hear what she had to say about the annual action programmes because we really do need to deliver on the letter that Commissioner Ferrero Waldner and Commissioner Michel sent to Mrs Morgantini and myself as rapporteur on the DCI, because in that letter it was clear that Parliament would decide for itself what structures it would set up and the programmes and strategy papers it would examine.
In my own experience as chairman of group C, examining some of the Latin American countries, I have to say that the cooperation has been very good.
DCI has formalised structures, recognising the important function that Parliament should play in its role as overseer and adviser.
I was very impressed at the beginning of the year to hear from the German Presidency that they would forward the ACP papers to Parliament in the same way as they had forwarded the papers for the Asian and Latin American countries.
The primary goal of the development cooperation instrument is to stamp out poverty and achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
This may be promoted by the contracts involving the Millennium Development Goals.
I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that, next year, EUR 50 million from 'Investing in people', the topical line of the development cooperation instrument, will be fed into the World Fund.
The World Fund is a wonderful thing, which we support.
Ralf Walter is active on that score and - you know what he is like - he is a thoroughgoing person in this respect.
In short, are there any programmes within the strategy papers that do not have a Millennium Development Goals profile, as laid down in the DCI regulation?
The Commission cannot go on ignoring the essential content of the DCI and the core ideas of the OECD's development cooperation policy.
The Commission should remember that the European Parliament has an essential role in the implementation of the DCI. (PT) For the first time, within the scope of this new instrument, Parliament has played a scrutinising role with regard to national strategies.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 12 July 2007.
