Eurozone (2007) - European Central Bank (2006) (continuation of debate) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Eurozone 2007 and European Central Bank report 2006.
This is a positive trend that the Member States of the Eurozone have been able to achieve thanks to a healthy and cautious fiscal policy and to the efforts made to carry out the requisite structural reforms, which are also the fruit of a greater degree of interdependence required of the Member States by the Eurozone.
Firstly, we should note with satisfaction that 2006 was unusually good for the Eurozone countries.
The newly-elected French president said in an interview that economic growth and full employment are so important that the heads of state should deal with them directly, and also that the excessive strength of the euro, brought about by the latest increases in interest rates by the European Central Bank, harms European exporters.
In addition to this diagnosis, the French president also wants to reduce taxation and increase the budget deficit in order to increase economic growth and reduce unemployment in the future.
The debating conditions in this room are rather difficult.
Firstly, there is the idea that structural reforms can be implemented and can increase the potential growth rate compared with that which we had in the 1990s, and that they may perhaps have already increased it.
The third major advance of Mr Mitchell's report is that the issue of paragraph 111 of the Treaty has at last been properly addressed.
In paragraph 10 of the resolution by Mr Mitchell, we call on Mr Juncker to agree with Mr Almunia, and this should be welcomed.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Madam President, it is not governance that the Union needs, but political action on its economies in order to promote a form of growth that creates stable and, above all, well-paid, jobs.
The European Central Bank is harmful because its sole aim is to have the lowest inflation rate possible, when it should include structural policy elements such as growth, as the US Federal Reserve does.
The Eurozone can no longer function in its current state; we must, as a matter of urgency, resort to a change in the statute of the European Central Bank and in the organisation itself of the euro.
In these days of free capital flows it is not possible simultaneously to control inflation and the exchange rate.
There has been a two-fold increase in salaries in the new Member States of the European Union and the share of energy- and raw materials-intensive output in these countries is greater than in the more developed states of the Eurozone.
I therefore support the demand to review the convergence criteria, notably with regard to inflation, so that they do not become instruments for creating new divisions in Europe. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Trichet, Mr Juncker, I should first like to congratulate Mr Rosati and, in particular, Mr Mitchell, on the quality of their reports.
On this issue, the European Central Bank must also pursue the recommendations contained in Mr Mitchell's report, namely prudence when it comes to raising interest rates, because decisions that should rest with governments, decisions on reform and much more far-reaching decisions in the fight against protectionism should not be pre-empted.
The major problem we face in Europe is the rhetoric of protectionism, which goes against the spirit of European integration.
I should like to invite the President of the ECB in particular to comment on this issue.
The other issue I want to raise is not only hedge funds but also paragraph 19 of the Mitchell report on corporate debt restructuring.
The European Central Bank is doing a good job of fulfilling its tasks.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe gives the ECB, Jean-Claude Trichet and Jean-Claude Juncker its full support where this crucial issue is concerned.
I would point to the wording of paragraph 10 which, in turn, refers specifically, as did Mr Hamon, to Article 111 of the Treaty.
It would be extremely unfortunate if our report could in any respect be seen as calling the ECB into question. - (PL) Madam President, the good macroeconomic results in the Eurozone countries confirm the huge impact economic and monetary union has on the results, which was in fact the aim of introducing a common currency in the European Union.
We are quite differently placed to control our development because interest rates can be adapted to prevailing conditions in Sweden without the Bank of Sweden needing to take account of the trade outlook in other countries.
I therefore think that, contrary to what Commissioner Almunia has said in this House, the Swedish 'no' vote must be respected and that Sweden too should be given a formal exemption from having to join the Eurozone, just as Denmark and the United Kingdom have.
I would like to point out that, while the reference benchmark for the euro is based on 27 Member States, in the ECB board of directors the same definition applies only to 13 States, since I am not aware of any role played in that body by citizens of States outside the Eurozone.
As a matter of fact, the smallest denomination, the 5 euro note, will be worth many times the value of the smallest banknotes of new Member States' national currencies, forcing the residents of the latter to run around with bagfuls of coins on the streets.
At the same time, we have the largest, the 500 euro bill, which will often be worth half a year's pension in those countries.
The collective debate on what the management of the euro consists of has moved on, and I welcome that.
And then, I should like to invite you to open the debate on the issue of the exchange rate.
This is an issue that Article 111 of the Treaty permits you to address, including at Council level.
It must also be considered as an issue of common interest, as Article 99 of the Treaty calls on you to consider it. (CS) Madam President, the introduction of the single currency was supposed to create a single internal market.
The European Union, however, is today in thrall to the concept of rigid political integration and the creation of an over-regulated superstate, rather than creating the economic freedoms which in 1957 helped form the foundations of the common market and which remain unfulfilled to this day.
When we introduced the euro, that is what citizens wanted. (FR) Madam President, I feel as though I am taking part in a debate of deceptions: the deception of our guests, who are faced with an empty Chamber, and deception on the right, where Members are getting worked up about the ECB's losing its independence, when the European Central Bank is and will remain independent.
It is neither paradoxical nor contradictory because France has made a comeback in Europe.
The Stability and Growth Pact, which since 1999 has provided a framework for the budgets of the Eurozone countries and which defines the budgetary discipline that the Member States must apply in order to prevent any excessive deficits from emerging, must be applied systematically, because it helps to establish monetary stability.
I am among those who believe that Eurogroup's role must be strengthened.
President of Eurogroup. (FR) Madam President, I am taking the floor at the end of the debate in order to make a few remarks further to what was said, or not said.
Finally, I should like to say to you, my dear friend, Mr Goebbels, that, if France's public finances were in the same health as the finances of the country for which I am responsible, we would not be having this debate, and we would not have had our visitor on Monday evening. (Laughter) That being said, France is fully committed; France will do everything it can to meet the objective in 2010, just as we all made a commitment to do in April this year.
The Member States, those that are referred to as the new Member States, in fact have nothing to gain by our having recourse to analyses that are based more on real convergence than on a nominal reading, but this is a debate that we can have over the next few months.
In the future, there may be 25 or even more.
The euro was created on the basis of a philosophy that is shared the world over: that price stability, and credibility in ensuring price stability, are prerequisites for sustainable growth and job creation.
More than 12 million jobs have been created since the euro was set up - more than 12 million; two million, as the rapporteur said very eloquently a moment ago, were created in 2006.
We have the lowest unemployment rate for 25 years.
Let me also say that this sentiment is fully shared by our fellow citizens.
This is how we have discussed matters since the establishment of the floating exchange rate system.
My 18 colleagues and I intend to adhere strictly to the Treaty, the whole Treaty and nothing but the Treaty.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Madam President, I would like to end this very interesting debate by making a very brief comment on the application of the Stability and Growth Pact, because in this debate - as in many other debates that we have held inside and outside of this Parliament - some people are calling upon the Commission and the Council - upon the Commission in particular, and quite rightly - to apply the Pact firmly.
This is an important debate which is going to follow on from debates such as those that have been held in this Parliament and in the Council on the Services Directive - and we will now have to see how it is applied - a debate that is linked to the increasing integration of financial services, which is crucial in terms of improving the functioning of the Eurozone in particular.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 12 July.
