Debate on the future of Europe (debate) The next item is the debate on the future of Europe, in which the Prime Minister of Sweden, a Member of the European Council, will take part.
I have just seen Simeon Sakskoburggotski, the former Prime Minister of Bulgaria, in the gallery.
I bid you a warm welcome to the European Parliament.
The Treaty that was signed in Lisbon on 13 December 2007 takes the European Union in a new direction.
Not only will the new Treaty provide for more transparency in the activity of the Union, which has always been a matter of particular importance to Sweden; it also makes combating climate change a new aim of the European Union, and that is an area in which Sweden can already boast major successes.
Only last week at the United Nations, I saw what great hopes the UN places in the European Union in particular, as well as in the European Parliament as its legislative arm.
The Lisbon Treaty gives us instruments to pursue the goals that are important to our future, and to implement rapidly the reforms we need for that purpose.
Like you, Prime Minister, the European Parliament firmly believes that the new Treaty should enter into force by 1 January 2009.
If the ratification process can be successfully completed on time in all 27 Member States, the Swedish Presidency of the Council will be able, in the second half of 2009, to devote itself to the major challenges of the future within a new institutional framework.
Sweden will lead us into a new era of European integration.
It is true, as has been said, that I have not been here before in my present capacity.
Our world is changing at a rapid pace and we are changing with it.
Our European integration model must be so strong that neither fanatical nationalism nor religious fanaticism can be a threat to peace and stability in Europe.
A strong Europe takes on a greater responsibility for global problems.
A strong Europe looks out for its citizens' best interests.
And we have certainly been practising.
As early as 1962 my party campaigned in a local election with the slogan 'Yes to Europe'.
We had to wait 33 years before we could actually send Members to the European Parliament.
But above all, it opens up new opportunities to discuss issues that are important to the future: climate and energy, jobs and economic growth, demographics, migration, and the EU's role on the international stage.
We are all aiming for the Treaty to come into force on 1 January 2009.
As the President noted, Sweden will ratify the Treaty during the autumn of 2008.
In 18 months' time, Sweden will hold the EU Presidency.
I look forward to very close cooperation with the European Parliament on all these matters.
Some of the key issues during the Swedish EU Presidency will be climate and energy, the Hague Programme, jobs and economic growth, Baltic Sea issues and the EU as a global player.
The issue of climate and energy is one of the biggest challenges faced by society in our time.
But the EU cannot shoulder this responsibility on its own.
Some calculations indicate that total world demand for energy is not declining, but may be expected to rise by 50% by 2030.
This has opened the door to a development in which the environment becomes a springboard for both new companies and new jobs.
But we have to introduce the right policy instruments to encourage our societies and our companies to make the right choices.
As regards the Lisbon strategy, the United States has been the world's largest economy for over a hundred years.
But globalisation also increases competition.
As economic integration grows increasingly stronger in the Union and around the world, successes and shortcomings - which also exist - in national reform efforts will no longer be solely an internal affair; they concern us all.
Our future prosperity in Europe is heavily dependent on how we Member States jointly create better conditions to seize the opportunities and meet the challenges of globalisation.
A progressive EU energy and environment policy is a prerequisite for long-term sustainable growth, and hence also for prosperity in Europe.
But it is also an important factor in our future competitiveness.
Let us make a real effort to complete the internal market and create a more innovative business climate in Europe.
At the same time, many know that winds of protectionism are blowing through Europe.
But when we talk about the Lisbon strategy, let us not just complain like Eeyore the donkey in Winnie the Pooh.
I see the Swedish Presidency in autumn 2009 as an excellent time to launch the discussion on a future European strategy for sustainable growth and employment during the coming decade.
Let me say something about the EU budget.
In 1913, just short of 100 years ago, the pensionable age in Sweden was set at 67.
Note that, at the time, the average lifespan in Sweden was around 56 years.
Now, at the same time as we have a falling retirement age, we see the average lifespan in Sweden lengthening to the present 80 years.
We have moved from a situation in which we worked for virtually the whole of our lives to one in which a Swede born now can expect to work for only half his life.
The growing percentage of older people in Europe is not matched by the number of people of working age.
Sweden supports the ambitious objective of having a common European asylum system in place by 2010.
The EU has an important role to play in giving these ideas more concrete content, not least in the form of broad and partnership-based cooperation with the African countries concerned.
Organised crime is an ever-growing problem in Europe.
The Lisbon Treaty provides us with new tools in the fight against terrorism and other serious cross-border crime.
The European Parliament will have a central part to play in this connection.
At the same time - and this is important - there must be a balance in what we do.
Sweden has initiated a broad discussion on the further development of Europe's common security strategy.
In 2009 we will be working hard to get the European External Action Service in place.
The economic and social situation in Kosovo is very difficult.
It is our duty to do more to support democratic forces in that country.
Almost a quarter of the EU's population - about 100 million people - are affected by the sensitive environment of the Baltic Sea.
The Baltic strategy which the Commission has been given the task of preparing before the Swedish Presidency in 2009 will, I hope, meet the challenges in the region.
Enlargement has been one of the EU's greatest challenges, but also a prime opportunity.
For those travelling through countries that in recent years have become EU Member States, it is striking to see the development and faith in the future.
Thank you, Prime Minister.
We are also pleased to note that the European Commission is represented here by Vice-President Margot Wallström.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Prime Minister, colleagues, it is my pleasure, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, to welcome to our Chamber the Prime Minister of Sweden.
For more than 50 years the political family to which I belong has encouraged and supported the development of Europe.
In June 2009, our commitment to a Europe of shared values, a Europe of prosperity, a Europe of security and solidarity will be put to the test of the popular vote.
Europe's prosperity must be a long-term concern.
It is our responsibility to protect the interests of the most vulnerable among us and to defend our European social model.
Economic growth and a high level of social protection are not mutually exclusive: the fact that our growth rate exceeded that of the United States in 2007 proves the point.
However, budgetary discipline cannot be allowed to undermine the principle of solidarity between the Member States or between Europe and its world partners.
What is at stake here is the defence of our values, our freedoms, our democracy, our rule of law and our solidarity.
We invite Kosovo to pursue a stable, democratic, multi-ethnic future - and a European future.
Mr President, Prime Minister, this is a debate on the future of Europe - we need to confront and overcome the challenges and we need a clear political vision, as well as determination and courage.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, I am pleased to be able to welcome you to Strasbourg.
I also believe it was a wise speech, because you pointed out that our vision of the future of Europe will only be attainable if we equip the European Union to play its part in addressing the challenges facing this continent in all parts of the world.
Consideration of the role of the European Union in world trade should not be confined to the debate on the internal market, but must also serve to identify ways in which this huge single market with its great economic power can contribute to prosperity, not only in Europe but in other continents too.
As a force for peace that has established stability and harmony within its territory, Europe must be able to contribute to making the world a more peaceful place.
I must say, however, that if the internal market you seek to develop is perceived by people in Sweden and other countries as a threat to the social standards they enjoy at home, they will reject that internal market.
You must appreciate that, while there is a need to develop the internal market, the process must be accompanied by the parallel development of a European social model.
Tell that to your European Council colleague, President Sarkozy, for it is not right that people in the European Union constantly pop up with conflicting messages.
If I were the Prime Minister of Turkey, I would never cease to be astonished.
The next President of the Council to appear here after Mr Janša will be saying the opposite.
The fact is that President Sarkozy told us here in the European Parliament that Turkish accession to the European Union was not on his agenda.
But it is you that the European Parliament expects to see here next year in the rotating presidency with your programme, which will then include the concept of a social Europe.
So those who attack the EU for being undemocratic are barking mad to oppose a treaty which puts citizens and their representatives in the driving seat.
The Prime Minister, with his record as a consensus-builder in his own country, looks an ideal candidate to launch the European Union under a new Council, a new Parliament and a new Commission.
And, yet, in almost all these areas, cooperation is in its infancy, because Member State governments in national capitals persist in gainsaying the public will.
My plea to the Prime Minister is to make sure that, by the time we have codecision in almost 80 policy areas and a huge increase in the workload of this House and in the Council, we have greater dialogue between Parliament and the Council to allow us to manage the Union properly: when it comes to dealing with the biggest foreign policy challenge for the Union now - the issue of Kosovo; when it comes to dealing with the question of Turkey, on which I agree so much with what the Prime Minister said; when it comes to dealing with big challenges, like world population growth, poverty and migration, of which he spoke.
The Prime Minister outlined the challenges of globalisation, both at our immediate borders and beyond, challenges to which EU cooperation has the answers.
Previous prime ministers have done the same in this Chamber, though without achieving such cooperation, so I commend to you a Swedish saying: Gott lära av andras fel, eftersom man inte hinner begå alla själv - it is well to learn from the errors of others, since there is no time to make them yourself. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, the delicate phase of ratification has finally begun, and we hope that they will take place very rapidly.
The European Parliament's greater involvement in the decision-making process bears witness to the fact that more account is being taken of European citizens.
We have to anticipate future scenarios and cannot, as we were in the case of Kosovo, be unprepared and divided in the face of such a sensitive scenario.
The Member States or the companies through which they work must, in our opinion, continue to own distribution networks, because everything can be privatised except the security of citizens and Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this opportunity to get to know the Prime Minister is very welcome, especially as he is surrounded by a bevy of women - some of whom, like Cecilia, we have known for ages, and others, like Margot, we have had here for quite some time.
The role of women in his government and in his country is something that I should therefore like to stress, especially as it is not just a question of gender, but also of quality, and it is partly in recognition of this that we are therefore pleased to welcome him here today.
Mr President, the European Union's future mission is to control climate change in all its aspects: environmental, economic and social.
I therefore hope that in the mid-term review in which his Presidency will, I believe, play an important part, bearing in mind that between this year and next year we must decide on the future of the financial perspective as well, his country will play less of a blocking role than it has played in the past.
On 18 December last year the Court ruled in favour of the company and against the unions.
The Court's judgment states, and I quote, 'In the case in the main proceedings, it must be pointed out that the right of trade unions [...] to take collective action [...] is liable to make it less attractive, or more difficult, for such undertakings to carry out construction work in Sweden, and therefore constitutes a restriction on the freedom to provide services'.
In future, in such cases, the trade unions in Sweden and elsewhere must restrict their demands to, and I quote again, the 'minimum protection' allowed under Community law, so as not to infringe Article 49 of the Treaty, which guarantees freedom to provide services.
For the time being, however, we would be interested to hear your views on this case, Prime Minister.
The political elite is only interested in listening to the people and respecting the popular will if the subjects obligingly and obediently say 'yes' to more EU federalism.
In conjunction with the discussions on the Lisbon Treaty, Prime Minister Reinfeldt should have acted like a champion of democracy by stating that the results of the referendums in fact meant that the Treaty had failed.
Instead of working for a leaner but keener EU, the Swedish Government seems rather to be aiming for a broader and more meddlesome EU.
The congress of shame met at Versailles on 4 February to adopt the constitutional review needed to adopt the so-called Constitutional Treaty.
On behalf of the 26 Member States who are not going to be consulted in a referendum, Ireland will be the de facto spokesman for the millions of Europeans who voted 'no' in 2005 and do not want a European superstate.
When you deprive people of their legitimate right to have a say in their future, they will take revenge.
Europe's future lies not in this totalitarian superstate, as we can see today in Kosovo, which should serve as an example, but in cooperation freely given between the nations and peoples of Europe, including the Slav nations.
The nation state is no longer the appropriate context in which to deal with many of the great challenges of our time.
Those of us who are from Sweden, which is after all a relatively new Member State, may have reason to remember that many of the problems and challenges we encounter do not arise because of the EU, but fall to the EU because the European Union has shown itself to be successful in meeting the challenges of our time.
They include the climate issue, on which Sweden has shown how development can be used in place of regulation in order to advance the interests of our society.
Openness to the world at large is what enables us to help shape the international order with values such as democracy and freedom, when we enlarge our own Community but also when we participate in international free-trade rounds and a great deal more.
As regards openness between the Member States, I think it important to stress that those who are against openness are also against free movement for people and freedom of opportunity.
The good European idea is openness and, if we can make it a reality, then we shall also ensure that our citizens will come to recognise that this really is the People's Europe.
This is a challenge for the Swedish Presidency and a challenge for this Parliament and all its political groups. (SV) Mr President, like everyone else, I would like to thank Prime Minister Reinfeldt for coming here.
My first question concerns the environmental assessment of the gas pipeline in the Baltic, one of the world's most polluted seas, on which Parliament recently had an inquiry involving several committees.
But both the Prime Minister and I come from Stockholm, where infrastructure and investment must all have practically doubled in cost.
My second question relates to cluster bombs and the like, which are now being debated in the Oslo process and in Wellington, New Zealand, and were considered in the Swedish Parliament last week; it is also an important EU issue.
I therefore want to thank the Prime Minister and the EU Minister for their clear determination to make Sweden a more active partner in the Union, to have its place at the heart of European integration, as the Prime Minister said.
A small entreaty: would it not be possible for the Swedish Government during the Presidency to hazard an initiative which might put an end to this travelling back and forth? (LV) Prime Minister, both you and we expect a lot of Europe's future.
He understood that in order to know where we are going it is important to know where we have come from.
I also want to have a referendum on our Treaty.
It takes 12 seconds to screw it in.
It takes 12 years to build a new nuclear power station.
But protectionism to protect the environment and human rights is an obligation and a responsibility for politicians in a free market.
The best way for you to demonstrate popular participation in the future of the EU is to allow the people to show what they think in a referendum. (SV) Mr President, I want to welcome Sweden's Prime Minister to Parliament and to this debate on the future of Europe.
It is an important debate, which affects 493 million citizens.
The debate must therefore be held, and decisions on the debate must be taken not only in Parliament but also among the citizens.
But for the citizens to become engaged in the debate, they must also be able to influence the future.
A referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon is therefore necessary if we are serious about a citizens' Europe.
It has received a great deal of attention, not just in Sweden but also in many other EU countries.
The result is a two-tier labour market.
This leads to dumping in terms of wages and conditions of employment and to discrimination.
Sweden can defend the rights of wage earners and a social Europe by demanding exceptions in the Treaty of Lisbon for collective agreements.
In conclusion, I want to remind Sweden's Prime Minister of one of the two most important issues for Sweden prior to EU membership.
This question is part of the debate on the future.
Without women Europe has no future. (FR) Mr President, Europe clearly only has a future through its peoples, since they are what give it substance and strength.
The French people feel let down, and have given up all hope in this general free-for-all, which is a negation of both the past and the future.
Europe will only find salvation if the people take their destiny back into their own hands, if the Member States are free to pursue their own policies and only join forces when necessary, if we denounce the lies of a democracy that no longer has anything to do with demos or kratos, in short if the Member States and the nations reclaim their freedom.
Sakharov prize-winner Salih Mahmoud Osman, however, addressing a plenary sitting of the European Parliament last December, said that there will be no peace without justice.
Reconciliation is almost inconceivable unless a just new order is put in place.
There will be no peace or rule of law, no security or stability on our continent unless legitimate justice is served in every regard.
Mr President, I am delighted to welcome the Prime Minister today.
I want to make very clear that British Conservative MEPs will vote against that report because we fundamentally disagree with the Treaty, with the process by which it was agreed and with the fact that it is simply a carbon copy of the constitution rejected by two of the Union's founding Member States in national referendums.
The British Parliament is currently deliberating the Treaty.
My party, both here and in the UK, will continue to campaign vigorously for the people to have their say in a referendum.
I am highlighting these successes because they have been achieved with the active participation of the new Member States, not in spite of them.
This, however, presupposes the following two conditions: the countries in question being generally prepared from a technical point of view and courage on the part of the existing Member States.
The Swedish Presidency is coming up next year.
This time we must not make mistakes when it comes to the Balkans.
Europe must speak with one voice on Kosovo.
But, also in the past nine years, we have had to agonise over so-called crises, such as the resignation of the Santer Commission and the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty.
Prime Minister, I want to see Scottish Ministers sitting alongside your Ministers in the Council, not in the second row.
That is no future. (NL) Mr President, Prime Minister, it is a bit odd to be debating the future of Europe here without considering the question of the European Union's borders.
If we want to exercise influence in favour of democracy and the defence of human rights in Africa and Asia, we must first address those issues near at hand, on the Union's own doorstep.
Finally, I would congratulate you, Prime Minister, on your very strong statement concerning environmental protection of the Baltic, a small sea bordered by eight EU Member States.
The Baltic is practically an internal EU sea, and no sea in the world faces such a great environmental threat.
To take a specific example, the imbalance between the market and policy can be seen in the Laval case.
The problem in the Laval case is that the market takes precedence over workers' rights.
You have handled this well in Sweden.
One target was one labour inspector for every 10 000 workers.
Instead, the proportion is falling by 27% in Sweden.
A properly planned strategy for the Baltic Sea region can be an important building block for the future energy policy, not least for energy cooperation with Russia.
The problem is illustrated by the decision taken by the Swedish Government last week to reject the application by Nord Stream to take a gas pipeline through Swedish territorial waters in the Baltic Sea.
An acceptable solution cannot really be found unless the EU and its Member States around the Baltic Sea formulate a line of action and are also given full access to the project.
Mr President, on 14 December 2007 the European Council asked the Commission to present an EU strategy for the Baltic Sea region by July 2009 at the latest, an initiative that was also welcomed by the European Parliament.
The importance of this decision cannot be underestimated either by the Nordic countries or by the Member States around the Baltic Sea that joined in 2004.
However, it is essential that all the Baltic Sea countries have compiled their operational programmes by that time, and this also applies to my country, Estonia. (DE) Mr President, there are basically two models for the future of our united Europe: the model of a coherent, ever more closely integrated united Europe, which is the model envisaged by the Treaty of Lisbon, or the pick-and-mix model.
I do think it is a shame they have not even been here to participate in such an excellent debate. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, you referred to the common agricultural policy as the only EU policy that is fully in the hands of the Community.
You will, however, be aware that, over the past 15 years, agricultural policy has undergone more radical reform than any other EU policy, and there is no way in which agricultural policy can be compared or equated with industrial policy, because they are subject to quite different conditions.
I am really looking forward to an exciting Swedish Presidency. (FI) Mr President, Prime Minister, when speaking about the future of Europe you did not speak about the militarisation of the European Union.
Prime Minister, do you think that the military safeguards contained in the Treaty of Lisbon are compatible with your military non-alliance? (PL) Mr President, Prime Minister, clearly we are engaged in European construction not for the sake of European technocrats in Brussels but for the citizens of the European Union, so that they may live better and in greater security.
But the fact is that the Prime Ministers of the 27 Member States have signed the Treaty of Lisbon.
They know it is the Lisbon Treaty that will defend democracy in Europe. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a vision for a modern, dynamic Europe.
Globalisation compels us to ask questions and tackle challenges like those mentioned by the Prime Minister of Sweden, Mr Fredrik Reinfeldt.
I do not know a single politician, not even in our conservative family, who would be against a social safety net for citizens, who would not want citizens to earn a good wage and have a better standard of living, who would want citizens to receive a pension of just EUR 150 as they do in Slovakia.
Finally, Prime Minister, the urgent issue now is the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
If Lisbon is not ratified, then Europe has no future. (SV) Many thanks to you all for your questions and comments.
In Sweden we have to some extent chosen a different path from many other European countries, which have placed greater emphasis on legislation, whilst we have placed greater emphasis on the social partners taking responsibility.
So I think that the path between work and welfare is coherent in the policy pursued in Sweden.
Sometimes we have asked a question and been given a different answer and spent many years discussing what the Swedish people actually answered.
However, that will be our starting point as we do this thoroughly.
All the Member States essentially have an influence, a kind of veto over the matter, as all you who are asking these questions know.
We respect that even though, like many of our voters, we are asking questions about how successful it is to move about in the way that is done here.
We have introduced special premiums for environmentally friendly vehicles, which are a powerful incentive and have meant that we now have a situation where more than 30% of new vehicles sold in Sweden are environmentally friendly.
If the Swedish people change their minds, the question may possibly arise again.
Thank you, Prime Minister.
That was the last debate in our series of reflections on the future of Europe.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) I would like to welcome the fact that the future of Europe continues to be a theme that is always present in the Parliament debates.
Thus, at an internal level, the citizen's wellbeing should guide all European actions, while human rights and their complete protection should represent its decisive vector.
Both the Lisbon Strategy and the new Reform Treaty are key documents, which should be firmly transposed into facts.
in writing. - It is with regret that I listened to the debate on the future of Europe and heard the Swedish Prime Minister question the agriculture budget in the EU.
If this is a debate about the future, then it seems to be bogged down in the past.
It provided food to feed a hungry Europe and has evolved and changed over the last 50 years in line with political and public pressure for change.
In Ireland we are holding a referendum on the Treaty which will, if passed, give an enhanced role and power to national parliaments in EU law-making.
in writing. - We sit here as a House representing 27 nations.
Jargon like 'solidarity', cohesion, and integration is commonplace within our institutions - words that are empty in a Europe divided between the old and the new Member States, between those Member States that seek individual gains in bilateral agreements with third countries and those Member States that are impaired by those same third countries.
The European Union is lost today between bilateral agreements, conformity, and a diversity which should be our asset, not a hindrance.
