draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the tourism sector is particularly significant.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, it is rightly stated in the report under discussion - and I must here congratulate the rapporteur - that the tourism sector is at the crosswords of numerous European Union policies and has a substantial impact on growth and employment and also on social and territorial cohesion.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, when Thomas Cook opened his first travel agency in 1841, I am sure he did not anticipate that 166 years later, tourism would account directly for approximately 5% of the income of European countries.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I would like to express my thanks to Paolo Costa.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Madam President, the tourism industry, especially in countries such as Cyprus, Spain, Greece and others, is a sector of major economic importance, and yet the European Commission does not have a word to say about those who work in it.
Briefly, in summary, I therefore think that when we talk about this sector, we need to look at tourism in a much more multi-faceted way, and we must also investigate what these services can bring us from the perspective of the common market.
I draw colleagues' attention in particular to paragraphs 24 and 25, which call for a set of comprehensive guidelines for hotels that are sensitive to the needs of consumers.
From this point of view, I would just cite two examples from among the many novel ideas contained in the Costa report: an 'Access for all' label that would guarantee accessible facilities for tourists with reduced mobility, and the European tourist programme for retired people.
I should like to congratulate him on a job well done.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 29 November 2007.
The individual Member States have in recent years pursued tourism strategies that have, in general, led to overall growth in this sector within the 27 countries' individual socio-economic settings.
The development of tourism must be sustainable; in other words, it must respect local communities and environmental protection.
