Afghan journalist Perwiz Kambakhsh - The case of the Iranian citizen Seyed Mehdi Kazemi The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on the case of the journalist Perwiz Kambakhsh and the debate on four motions for a resolution on the case of the Iranian citizen Seyed Mehdi Kazemi.
author. - Mr President, I will link this discussion to the previous debate on Russia because I strongly believe that, if we believe in a core set of values, we cannot uphold them only in countries that are weak, and give countries that are strong an exemption.
President Karzai and the Afghan Government have committed themselves to building a democratic, modern state.
We should not shy away from that work, and we should impress very strongly, both on the Commission and the Council and all the Member States, the fact that we should invest in education in Afghanistan.
author. - (PL) Mr President, the Afghan journalist Perwiz Kambakhsh has been sentenced to death.
author. - (NL) Capital punishment is barbaric and freedom of expression is set in stone in Afghanistan's constitution.
And yet the journalist Perwiz Kambakhsh has been sentenced to death for blasphemy, far from the capital Kabul, because of an article on women's rights under Islam which he did not even write himself.
Offer more help than was promised in 2007 for reform of the judiciary in Afghanistan; 2.
The European Union must make respect for human rights and the Afghan constitution a central pillar of the European Commission's policy.
This brave act was considered blasphemy in accordance with Palaeolithic-era sharia law and he was sentenced to death by hemi-encephalic fanatically blinded so-called judges in a so-called regional court in northern Afghanistan.
But the issue is that for many, in certain countries, whether they are in Iran, Jamaica or elsewhere, being gay is a crime and they are at risk.
In relation to this resolution, we note that Article 34 of the Afghan Constitution very clearly enunciates the right to freedom of expression, stipulating that freedom of expression must not be restricted and that every Afghan must have the right to express his ideas in speech, image and the written word and through any other medium.
author. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Mehdi Kazemi we are having to discuss something that really should not require a single second of debate.
The founding principles of the European Union, of respect for human rights and life, have not yet been abolished.
I would thank the 140 MEPs who have rallied round this cause and I hope that this House will vote unanimously for the resolution that has been tabled.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, on 22 January 2008 the primary court in Afghanistan's northern province of Balkh sentenced to death Perwiz Kambakhsh, a 23-year-old journalism student writing in the local newspaper, for downloading an article on women's rights from the internet and distributing it electronically.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, a few months ago the Iranian President, Mahmud Ahmadinejad, solemnly declared to the United Nations that there was no problem of homosexuality in Iran because, quite simply, there were no homosexuals there.
Yet we are against this resolution because it does not concern, as intended, an urgent case, but asylum law in the European Union in general and the relationship between two EU Member States, the Netherlands and the UK, in regard to that difficult question.
That applies to the case of an Afghan journalist sentenced to death by a court in a northern Afghanistan province for distributing an article on women's rights in Islam.
We have raised the case repeatedly with the Afghan authorities, most recently with the Foreign Affairs Minister, Mr Spanta, at the troïka meeting in Ljubljana on 21 February.
It goes without saying that the Commission is categorically opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances, and all the more so where no crime has been committed.
The European Union conveys these messages about human rights to Iran in a general way and also through action on a number of fronts.
Unfortunately, Iran has not yet accepted our offer to resume bilateral dialogue about human rights.
