A complete revision of the visa rules is foreseen with the visa code on which my ALDE Group colleague, Henrik Lax, is rapporteur.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs adopted my report in November 2007.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all I would like to convey the regrets of Vice-President Barrot for being unable to be with you tonight.
I am pleased to note that Parliament has accepted the Council's common position and thus given shape to the political agreement which it and the Council reached on this proposal during the trialogue on 2 December 2008.
I would thank both Parliament and the Member States for the spirit of compromise they showed in achieving the formal adoption of this instrument, and in particular I should like to thank the rapporteur, Baroness Ludford, and the co-rapporteurs for their support and cooperation.
A decisive factor in our agreement to cooperation of this kind is that the Member States remain responsible for data protection and data security in these cases.
The same conditions apply for the transmission of collected data from one Member State to another in the case of co-locations; in other words the representation of a Member State by another in a third country.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, first of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Baroness Ludford for her good cooperation.
For us the change of the minimum age for fingerprinting from 6 to 12 is very important - but 14 would have been even better.
We also welcome explicit references to fundamental rights, such as the possibility of copying data from the previous application if the last entry is not older than 59 months instead of 48, as well as guarantees for secure data protection.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I value the commitment of the rapporteur very highly and would like to thank her and everyone involved very warmly for their excellent work over recent years.
I know how difficult it was to extract the compromise from the Council which exempts children under the age of 12 from the obligation to provide fingerprints.
If a charge of up to EUR 30 is added, this does not correspond with my idea of an open and hospitable Europe.
I would like to thank everyone for their work on this dossier over recent years.
Since 1997, about 6 million migrants have entered the UK.
About 4 million have left, leaving a net population increase of over 2 million.
England is one of the most densely populated countries in the world - more densely populated than India, China or Japan.
On current trends, our population of 61 million is set to rise to 75 million by 2051, and is projected to rise to 85 million by 2081.
When the London voters become aware of Baroness Ludford's position on these issues, hopefully they will grant her a one-way visa out of the European Parliament in the European elections on 4 June 2009. (PT) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that the Visa Information System or VIS urgently needs to be brought into operation, and that we need a Community code on visas.
As a result of all this, Madam President, I cannot accept this compromise. (RO) I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur for her efforts to create a legal framework which will provide the basis for implementing the biometric identification system.
The fact that, for instance, children under the age of 12 and people who cannot physically have their fingerprints taken will be exempted from fingerprinting for biometric visas is proof of moderation and pragmatism which must be extended to all Member States. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I believe that the regulation will allow us to achieve two main objectives: security on the one hand and a more citizen-friendly approach on the other.
I believe it is also more citizen-friendly if the process can be made shorter by calling for the cooperation of the Member States or bringing in external service providers, if the data protection regulations are followed.
I would like to reassure everyone who is concerned that there will be abuse of the system or the regulations will not be adhered to as a result of using external service providers.
In my country we have had very positive experiences in this respect.
I think that observing the protection of personal data in particular is important for this regulation.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would just like to thank, once again, Baroness Ludford and all the honourable Members for their contributions and their comments.
The debate is closed.
The right to levy a service charge, apart from the normal visa charge, will create differences between Member States regarding the cost of a visa.
