Code of Conduct for computerised reservation systems (debate) The next item is the report by Timothy Kirkhope, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a Code of Conduct for computerised reservation systems - C6-0418/2007 -.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the proposal the honourable Members are debating today seeks to modernise rules adopted in 1989 on the market for the distribution of airline services.
Computerised reservation systems (CRS) act as intermediaries between airlines and travel agents in the sales chain for air tickets.
Let me say to my colleagues who have worked so hard on this report that I believe that, within the deal we have on the table, we have a robust but flexible test, one which deals with all the concerns you have expressed.
Any change made by the famous amendment to Amendment 48 is therefore totally superfluous and if this goes through tomorrow, it would delay the adoption of the whole thing or even call it into question.
The website, or the computer, told me that there were no direct flights from London to San Francisco and recommended a connecting flight via New York with, I think, United.
But it highlighted to me, in a simplified form, the problem that we are trying to address with this revision: as Commissioner Mandelson said, a revision that goes back some 20 years or more.
At the same time the matter underwent a change in the Council: the amendments submitted, still more than in the version originally presented by the European Commission, strengthen the position of three carriers - that is to say, Lufthansa, Iberia and Air France.
Consumers are protected while a final total price can actually be displayed by the price display method and this cannot be covered up with various special or supplementary prices.
The term has been proving itself for 40 years now.
The four winners would be, for example, British Airways, American Airlines and others that would benefit from such a shift in the competitive situation.
Mr President, in thanking the rapporteur for his report, I recognise his efforts to try and get a first-reading agreement on this important dossier.
The rapporteur is right.
Therefore, I support the call for this report to be taken back to committee so that we can address all the concerns raised, get this legislation right, not for our major air carriers, but for our consumers, whose representations tell us they dislike the Council's additions. (SK) I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Timothy Kirkhope, for including provisions on display in the regulation on a code of conduct for computerised reservation systems (CRS).
I believe that this report will contribute to fair competition between CRSs, which will be of benefit mainly to consumers who will obtain travel products with high-quality services at a favourable price. (RO) The Regulation on the code of conduct for computerized reservations systems lays down the rules that the air and railway transport operators must comply with when making reservations.
The additional phrase 'exercising a decisive influence' prompts the question: does Lufthansa, with its 22% shareholding in Amadeus, exercise a decisive influence?
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to commend honourable Members for the high standard of this debate.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Kirkhope report The Commission can accept Amendments 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 43, 44, 45 and 48.
The Commission can accept Amendments 10, 19, 26 and 28 in principle.
The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 18, 25 and 47 with redrafting.
The Commission can accept Amendment 33 in part.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 12, 13, 15, 24, 29, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 46.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) Ladies and gentlemen, the text we are debating this evening was the subject of lively discussions within the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and not without reason, since it is important legislation for the tourism and air transport industry, and also for citizens.
