Results of the informal summit of heads of state and government (Lahti, 20 October 2006) (debate) The next item is the European Council report and Commission statement on the results of the informal summit of Heads of State or Government in Lahti on 20 October 2006.
A separate working session was devoted to ways of promoting innovation policy to guarantee the Union's competitiveness and economic growth.
The atmosphere over lunch was excellent and the solidarity among the Member States could definitely be felt.
In addition to energy issues, we also discussed topical international issues and freedom of expression in Russia.
The main topics were the principles for developing EU-Russian energy relations and their execution, closer relations with strategically important third countries, the fight against climate change through energy policy; and more effective exchange of information through a network of energy correspondents.
We shared the view that issues of energy and climate should in future feature prominently at EU summits with developing world countries, as they have during Finland's EU Presidency.
The Commission will put forward its proposal before the spring European Council.
Towards the end of the year, the Commission will issue a communication containing concrete proposals on the development of the European patent system.
Businesses in the sector are investing huge sums in the joint initiative.
The Finnish Government too has set a good example here, promising to contribute EUR 70 million over a seven-year period.
Last week, the Commission put forward a legislative proposal concerning the European Institute of Technology.
Our discussion on immigration highlighted the commitment to cooperation and the matter of solidarity amongst the Member States in solving immigration problems.
As representative of the Presidency of the Council, I will be passing this urgent message on to the Sudanese President.
Mr President, I would like to thank you too for your contribution to our dinner debate and for the support which you expressed regarding this crucial matter.
In our discussions with President Putin, we talked about how we could promote the goals of energy cooperation through a new agreement.
The intention is that an agreement will be reached at the Helsinki Summit on the commencement of negotiations on a new and comprehensive EU-Russia pact.
The European Parliament will also have a central role to play in accelerating action on what was agreed on at Lahti.
Thank you for this opportunity to present to you the results of the Lahti informal meeting of Heads of State or Government.
Firstly, on innovation, everyone agrees that innovation is important and that Europe is lagging behind.
Importantly, the Commission received the green light on the European Institute for Technology (EIT).
We are receiving enthusiastic support from all over the business and scientific community in Europe.
That is an important task for us as a society.
We should ask the scientific community of Europe to help us solve these problems, so that we can maintain the lead in what is perhaps the most important challenge of the 21st century.
The second main issue in the debate was energy.
Thirdly, the European Council agreed on a specific common approach to Russia.
We made clear to President Putin our wish to have a close energy relationship with such a key partner, but that relationship must be based on the principles that Russia has already signed up to at the G8 hosted by Russia this year, as well as the energy charter: transparency, the rule of law, reciprocity and non-discrimination, along with market opening and market access.
Those principles apply to energy, but not just energy.
That message was all the more powerful in that we were united.
It was important for that meeting and for the success of the Lahti summit that the statements by the Presidency and by the European Commission were clearly supported by all members of the European Council.
The idea of solidarity is more important than ever.
Solidarity and coherence are more than ever the key words of our European Union.
Prime Minister Vanhanen repeated the European Union's concern at the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, expressed so eloquently in our previous debate in the European Parliament.
Let us be frank: it is completely absurd that in a common space of freedom of movement we still sometimes think in terms of 25 migration policies.
Therefore, Lahti was another signpost on our collective road towards equipping Europeans for globalisation.
I am grateful to Mr Vanhanen for his excellent chairmanship and to the Finnish Presidency for our close cooperation.
That is the way to achieve practical results for our Europe. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FI) Mr President, Prime Minister Vanhanen, President Barroso, in assessing the success of the Lahti meeting we may certainly work on the basis that its results are commendable.
Although this was a small step forward, it was nevertheless an important step towards a uniform, long-term policy on Russia.
It was also important that we ventured to speak openly about human rights and the murder of Anna Politkovskaya and not dodge the issues.
It is, of course, completely obvious - we will be pointing this out in the resolution on the death of Anna Politkovskaya - that it is not possible to describe today's Russia, where journalists have to fear for their lives if they air grievances about their country, as a functioning democracy.
I am, then, also critical of the speeches made by Prime Minister Vanhanen and the President of the Commission, in which they promised many fine things.
My group salutes President Borrell and Prime Minister Vanhanen and the other Prime Ministers who raised the issue of Anna Politkovskaya's murder.
Mr Putin, 'mafia' is not a Russian expression, but organizovanniye zhuliki is too often our impression of your country.
The European Union should sign no partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia until freedom, transparency and the rule of law are established, along with the legal certainty for investors that flows from them. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lahti summit has demonstrated with great clarity that action on the international stage and internal political choices are ever more closely linked.
Casting a veil of silence over the massacres in Chechnya, the closure of more than 90 non-governmental organisations, the arbitrary trials, targeted killings and growing corruption in order to obtain gas is not a winning strategy.
At the same time it was an opportunity to talk about the country's human rights issues.
Human rights and freedom of the media cannot be sidestepped when policy on Russia is being considered.
The EU elite may be speaking with one voice today but they are not listening to the people.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I should like to thank Prime Minister Vanhanen and President Barroso for their presentation here this morning.
We can speak about it again and again, but there must be positive action to get it up and running, to give a core element to innovation and research in Europe.
This significant statement was also made on my behalf, and I feel it was also made in the name of all Polish MEPs, and indeed of all MEPs from the new Member States.
We need to look our Russian partners in the eye when we speak of human rights.
This partnership could be in both our interests.
Furthermore, economically and in terms of energy, we both need each other.
It must be made very clear that the boycott of Georgia and the treatment of Georgian people in Russia are unacceptable.
Secondly, the killing of Anna Politkovskaya is the latest incident in a long line of at least 19 journalists who have disappeared or been killed since Putin became President.
We cannot have a situation where Russia wants to invest in our gas and oil infrastructure and even wants to buy a minority stake in Airbus, but where at the same time our companies like Shell and Mobil are kicked out of the energy fields in Russia.
Mr Barroso, you have made a foreign policy proposal in the field of energy policy that I very much welcome - you have my full support.
The decisions that have been taken here - and I have heard some very positive reports of the discussions in Lahti - now need to be implemented.
Particularly in this area, we should establish an interdependence, including, of course, those regions that you mentioned, Mr Barroso, and which we should not forget, such as Ukraine and other countries in the Black Sea region, particularly Turkey.
With regard to the disputes, we must not forget that, in our relations with Russia, particularly in the future partnership agreement, we also need a clear dispute resolution procedure.
Then we will really be able to achieve a good, appropriate and equal partnership. (Applause) - (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, Finland is presiding over the European Union at a particularly difficult juncture, since Heads of State or Government are very much at odds with each other about the European Union's future.
Given its past, though, Finland is probably the best placed Member State to enter into open and in-depth dialogue with Russia.
In this energy review we need a CO2 target for Europe for 2020.
European business, European citizens, are losing billions of euros because of the lack of competition, and these same companies are preventing the innovation boost which we could have in these sectors.
Neither was any significant progress made in talks with Russia concerning cooperation on energy policy.
Sadly, not all Member States have understood this yet. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many lofty words of pathos in defence of human rights, even from the ranks of those parties which for decades remained silent while in the East there were popular uprisings in Berlin, in Budapest, and so on.
At that time, Europe remained silent and those parties remained silent, whereas now they are all supporters of human rights, and are putting Vladimir Putin's Russia in the dock.
It is clear that as much as Russia needs us for energy collaboration, we need an economic partnership agreement with Russia.
I should like to focus my thoughts on the central issue at the Lahti summit: the issue of energy security in Europe and our continuing relationship with Russia.
The recent dispute between Ukraine and Russia on gas supplies gave us all cause for concern.
At this time perhaps we should take Mr Putin at his word and encourage him to ensure that democracy flourishes in Russia.
I was a little disappointed on human rights issues.
Not counting mergers and acquisitions, for 2005, the company IBM registered 8 000 investments in new production capabilities worldwide, including 900 in China, 600 in India, 1 200 in the United States and 3 200 in the Union, which thus takes 40% of world production investments.
Yes, Europe has lost market shares, but less than the United States or Japan.
Yes, China has become our top supplier, but Europe has doubled the volume of its exports to China.
What we need is a real Union budget that would allow us to support the swift integration of the new members and so create an internal market in which we all experience more growth.
Finally, if the summits were to stop taking speculative decisions, President Barroso could put in place a European Institute of Technology provided with real funding.
However, what is happening now in Russia in the field of energy is the very opposite of this and we need to take note of it.
Despite that, we must ensure reliable guarantees for our European system of values. (EL) Mr President, I shall comment on two issues debated during the informal summit in Lahti.
The first has to do with innovation policy which, in your opinion Mr Vanhanen, will be the source of European development.
When talking to the European Union about energy, Russia knows very well how to exploit our fears, while for our part we forget that Russia has an interest with regard to us - selling its energy profitably, easing the visa system, and making use of all that European civilisation provides, if we can put it in this way.
What quarrel do we have with them?
President Putin came to Lahti in the knowledge that the European Union would be unable to speak with one voice about the human rights situation in Russia and about Russia's attitude to Georgia, for example.
The lack of political unanimity is apparently as structural as is our dependence on Russian energy sources.
Of course, we have our faults, but we also have a duty to express clearly our concern and our disapproval regarding worrying abuses.
On the issue of energy, the Russian President has clearly stated that he does not reject the principles of the Energy Charter and that he would welcome a document that took up those principles while amending some of its provisions.
The Member States appear decidedly less hurried than Europeans are to take this issue forward in order to give consistency to the different national policies operating within the Schengen area, in particular in relation to illegal immigration.
However, without the political will of the Member States, a presidency is reduced to impotence even when armed with goodwill, such as that currently being demonstrated by Finland. (FI) Mr President, the extraordinary summit meeting held in Lahti should be considered a success.
The EU had a joint message for the Russian President on energy policy, democracy and human rights.
It was important at the Lahti meeting to have spoken with Russia and not just about Russia.
Our challenges in the area of energy policy and the answer to the problems of the future lie with innovation and with how we can start to exploit renewable energy sources and develop technology to save energy to a substantial degree.
Whilst courteous, the Finns did not succumb to window-dressing, and instead raised the issues of the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, human rights in Russia, and the unsatisfactory state of democracy in the country.
The EU-Russian dialogue is important.
The idea is to be welcomed in every respect, since it gave Heads of Government the opportunity not only to listen to the opinion of Russia's leader on the chances of ratification of the Energy Charter and about the risk to Europe's investments in the energy sector in Russia, but also Russia's policy of pressure on Georgia and its understanding in the sphere of human rights.
We may allow ourselves to hope that this meeting has increased understanding among the European Union Member States that the most effective way of making Russia into a partner with an interest in Europe is to approach it as a united cartel of energy consumers.
There is no doubt that the achievements of the Presidency and the Commission should be evaluated in terms of their ability to achieve partnership among the Member States and unity in the Union's foreign policy.
Mr President, it is not acceptable that we should only take terrorism seriously following 11 September 2001, the energy crisis only following the Russian-Ukrainian crisis, and illegal immigration, only after the deaths at the fences of Ceuta and Melilla.
What is more, some people want to approach the issue of immigration solely from the point of view of cracking down on it.
Our cooperation must be based on common values and ground rules but, following the summit, it now unfortunately feels as if we are further away from each other than we were before. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Lahti, an important step was taken in energy policy, but in my view it was not a milestone.
Security of supply has a foreign policy aspect, but also involves strengthening the industries involved in it.
Last but not least, security of supply also requires a variety of energy sources.
Moscow expressed its discontent over the fact that the Lithuanian company Mažeikių Nafta was sold to the Polish company PKN Orlen and not to a Russian enterprise.
It is also very important, however, to involve the new Member States of the European Union in the process of developing cutting-edge technologies.
The European Institute for Technology's budget and sources of funding are a key concern that goes hand in hand with any discussion concerning the plans for the Institute.
Freedom of speech is in great danger in Russia.
What I wish to highlight, Mr Vanhanen and Mr Barroso, is that we need a new and innovative tool which successfully combines education, research and innovation.
It is therefore, for this very reason, extremely important for us to know what our universities, research centres and undertakings believe before we take a decision on this new institute.
At the press conference in Lahti last Friday evening, we all found out, to our great surprise, that nothing is happening between Georgia and Russia, and that instead there is a conflict between Georgia on the one hand, and Abkhazia and Ossetia on the other.
According to President Putin, the situation is nearing the point of bloodshed.
I call upon all European Union institutions to defend Georgia with a stronger hand than ... (The President cut off the speaker) (CS) I note with dismay that the Lahti summit represents a wasted opportunity as regards the issue of energy, both in terms of the EU's relations with Russia and the common understanding between the Member States.
This is evidenced by the fact that some EU Member States prefer to conduct bilateral negotiations on their energy security issues rather than on behalf of the EU as a whole.
At stake here is our future in the globalised world and our ability to safeguard the continent's stability and prosperity.
The issue is, rather, that of how gas from the Devil can be done without.
In the next 10 to 20 years, oil and gas must be to our independence what coal and steel were to our peace. (Applause) . - (LV) Thank you, Mr President, Mr Vanhanen and Mr Barroso.
First of all I would like to thank the Finnish Presidency for organising this summit, since an informal summit is a good forum in which to talk about difficult issues.
We know very well that Russia's army is also in Transnistria, that Russia supplied weapons and that the leading personnel in all those enclaves are officers from Russia's official organisations.
The Commission drafted an excellent paper for the Lahti Summit, and over lunch there we spent around three hours discussing the approach so thoroughly that President Barroso and I were able to speak for the group as a whole in the evening when we met President Putin.
Over the months to come we also will be defining this foreign energy policy in terms of a Union approach, not just in respect of Russia, but all our partners and all third countries.
The next important stage will be in the next few weeks when the Council must reach agreement on the negotiations mandate, on the basis of which the Union is to commence talks with Russia on the future Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, or whatever name this new agreement should be given.
This debate we have now had in Parliament will provide firm support for that.
Some major investment projects are unfinished, some companies are having difficulties with the Russian administration, and some have seen their projects through to completion more smoothly.
I wish to thank you for this debate and the feedback.
With regard, first of all, to the European Institute of Technology - and as Prime Minister Vanhanen pointed out - the European Council gave the green light - not the orange light, but the green light - to the initiative at the end of the Lahti summit.
Where this very subject of research is concerned, the United States manifestly differs from Europe due, in particular, to the existence of institutions or networks covering the whole of the territory of the United States of America, for example the National Science Foundation, familiar to a number of you, or the National Institute for Health.
Energy is, without a doubt, the issue of the future, and not only from an economic, but also from a political, point of view.
That is, moreover, why, a few months ago, we presented a Green Paper on sustainable energy, and we were very pleased with the support given by the European Council to the idea of a common approach to energy matters.
However, it is also very important from the economic point of view, so crucial is it for us still to be capable of being in the vanguard of the fight against climate change, providing it with its impetus.
He says that the Portuguese Presidency in the second half of 2007 will have 'the enormous responsibility' of 'taking the first steps towards implementing the [so-called] constitutional amendment programme' and 'this will be a launch pad for the new [so-called] European Constitution', thereby implementing a 'programme' previously defined by the German Presidency and to be concluded by the French Presidency in the second half of 2008.
Nothing - absolutely nothing - is to be expected of the European Union in this area, and it is a matter of urgency to acknowledge formally that no immigration policy can be anything but national and no cooperation on the subject anything but intergovernmental.
