Returning to the subject of neighbourhood, we must admit, we must be aware, that the countries which surround the European Union are changing very dynamically.
Therefore, we need changes in neighbourhood policy.
The different ENPI regional approaches and dimensions are supported through specific regional programmes.
The security of our Eastern neighbours, in particular, energy security in Ukraine and Belarus, also constitutes EU security.
I would also encourage the Commission to facilitate the exchange of experiences and best practices in cross-border cooperation between ENP programmes and projects, on the one hand, and actions taken under the European Territorial Cooperation objective and under the already completed Interreg IIIA Community Initiative, on the other.
However, criteria and approaches specific to each country need to be defined, depending on its political priorities in terms of human rights, democracy, the rule of law, minority rights and so forth.
The Barcelona process should be supplemented by the European neighbourhood policy and the objectives must be clearly defined.
We need to engage more with our neighbouring countries, particularly after the three conflicts that have occurred in the last six months, in Gaza, Ukraine and Georgia.
Whilst I agree with the idea of further cooperation with Turkey and Russia to resolve certain ongoing conflicts and to strengthen the links between the Black Sea countries, the wording of Paragraph 39 could lead to confusion.
Paragraph 44 of the report only refers to Ukraine and Moldova, although most of our neighbours are important countries for the energy sector, as source countries or as transit countries.
It therefore appears to me that the measures in the energy field should include all the countries in our neighbourhood.
It is now, especially, that the citizens of Georgia require our help and the feeling that they are being treated in the same way as other countries which are working with the European Union.
Without doubt, the crisis has shown the need to identify measures within the framework of this policy and the need to strengthen the energy sector as part of the Eastern Partnership.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Szymański, for a very good report.
The war in Georgia in the summer of 2008 made it clear that, up to then, the European Union had not developed and implemented a sustainable conflict resolution policy for the Caucasus region.
Particularly with a view to preserving its - our - credibility, the European Union must finally start taking the democracy and human rights clauses in its agreements with third countries seriously and taking the appropriate action - ideally positive but, if necessary, negative. (PL) Mr President, in thanking our fellow Member Mr Szymański for a good report, I should like to share a reflection on the subject of why neighbourhood policy is so important for us.
Europe - at least this is how I see things - will be strong when every part of it has a role to play and is able to fulfil that role, and so this must include not only the countries of the EU, but also its neighbours.
However, there is another important allocation gap between the neighbours.
Recent geopolitical events involving our eastern neighbours have clearly demonstrated that there is also a need to better adapt the European Neighbourhood Policy to the needs of the region.
The largest eastern neighbour of the European Union should be offered specific incentives and advantages under the Eastern Partnership which will have a motivating influence on a country with European ambitions.
I am, therefore, glad that the need for greater social engagement on the part of the citizens and local authorities, in terms of planning and implementing the ENP, has been stressed in the report.
More ambition, indeed, in dialogues with civil society and local authorities, to enhance their involvement in the conception and control of the implementation of this instrument.
The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument should contribute more to developing transport links between the European Union and the Black Sea, as well as between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine.
The development of Community ports located on the Black Sea, the construction of liquefied gas terminals, as well as the development of rail and road links between states in the Black Sea region and Member States, must feature among the priorities which this instrument will be used for.
I will give him the floor after the 'catch-the-eye' period. (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw attention to three issues in this debate.
I welcome an eastern partnership as ambitious as the one proposed in this report, all the more so as it is aimed at more effective cooperation and supporting the reconstruction of Georgia, while also suggesting for the future setting up a free trade area and lifting visa requirements for the European Union.
However, I think that we must attach more importance to the situation in the Republic of Moldova from where we are getting worrying signals about the freedom of expression and the integrity of the elections which are due to take place this spring. (RO) The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument is of fundamental importance to the success of the European Neighbourhood Policy, especially the Eastern Partnership and cooperation in the Black Sea region.
Recent events in the area to the east of the EU, which have been mentioned previously in the house, namely the gas crisis and the crisis in Georgia, have demonstrated once again the need for a strategy capable of ensuring that the European Union plays an active role in this geopolitical area.
We also need more active involvement in the Black Sea area, to provide a basis for consolidating relations with Turkey and Russia as this area is in the vicinity of the European Union, Turkey and Russia.
Furthermore, I would like to say a few words about the EURONEST initiative as well, which is only one example of a specific solution for improving the application of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument in states such as Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine or Belarus.
I also think that resources must be allocated with a view to involving civil society in the partner countries in common projects and to supporting the mobility of citizens in these countries, which includes easing visa requirements.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think this discussion on the ENPI has in fact already pre-empted the next Commission communication on the Eastern Partnership.
The funding figures are currently EUR 3.6 per capita per annum to the east and EUR 3.4 per capita per annum to the south.
This is all I can tell you at this stage, but perhaps at a later stage, when we start to discuss the Eastern Partnership, we can go into all the details.
The political and economic situation beyond our eastern border has a direct influence on the situation in the entire EU, and on our economic equilibrium and security.
I am thinking here of support for civil society and for democratic and institutional reforms, and guaranteeing Europe's energy security.
Recent geopolitical events in the European Union's Eastern neighbourhood underscore the importance of developing the European Neighbourhood Policy further by adapting it more effectively to the needs of the partners, which includes enhanced EU involvement in the Black Sea region.
From the point of view of the security and welfare of our common home, both eastern and southern neighbours are equally important to us.
I am incredibly happy that Estonia is one of the 15 founding members of the recently founded Neighbourhood Investment Facility.
