President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The EU institutions implement the series of measures envisaged in the Council conclusions of 18 June 2007 within the limits of their competence as conferred upon them by the Treaty, in cooperation with the Member States and, whenever appropriate, with the third countries concerned.
The responsibility for the control and surveillance of external borders falls to Member States.
The establishing of a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, an agency generally known as Frontex, by Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, was an important step in promoting that solidarity.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I understand your concern.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I should like to say that, as regards the management of the Frontex Agency and the more general issue of immigration, the basic goals of the Portuguese Presidency are to combat illegal immigration more effectively and improve the adaptation, integration and quality of life of those working in our midst and contributing legally to our economic and social development.
We also welcome the fact that the Spring 2007 European Council agreed to set up a family alliance to serve as a platform for exchanging opinions and knowledge on good practices and policies for families.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Once again I should like to point out here what falls under the competence of the EU, namely policy and legislation, and what is the responsibility of Member States - this must be taken into account - and I should like to say that gender equality is an essential issue for Portugal.
I must say also that, in the EU and in this particular case in the new Reform Treaty - as already reflected in the Constitutional Treaty - equality for us is a basic and fundamental issue in European integration and is part of the acquis of those fundamental principles that will certainly always be at the forefront of our concerns.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I would remind the House that the Council, in its conclusions of 23 and 24 July 2007, reiterated its full support for President Abbas and the Government led by Prime Minister Fayyad.
In its conclusions of 23 and 24 July 2007, the Council reaffirmed its pledge to help establish the institutions and economy of the future Palestinian State and stressed the need to develop the economy fully in the Palestinian Occupied Territories, including by promoting cooperation with Palestine's private sector.
The Portuguese Presidency wants to work towards that, as does the Council of the European Union.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The Portuguese Presidency is firmly determined to continue the work successfully undertaken by the Finnish and German Presidencies and to implement the conclusions on aid for trade approved by the Council on 15 May 2007, in particular as regards the finalisation of the EU aid for trade strategy in time for it to be included in the WTO's next global evaluation of aid for trade due to take place in November 2007.
Therefore, on 5 July 2007, the Portuguese Presidency presented a draft EU aid for trade strategy which is under discussion in the relevant Council formations.
The draft strategy should be seen in the context of following up the recommendations put forward in 2006 by the WTO Aid for Trade Task Force.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I thank the honourable Member for his words of encouragement and confidence.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) We have been implementing the northern dimension policy since the beginning of this year on the basis of two documents adopted at the Northern Dimension Summit held in Helsinki in November 2006.
The Portuguese Presidency will certainly take work forward in this area.
A meeting of Senior Officials is scheduled during the Portuguese Presidency, to be held on 21 November in Russia.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As you know, during its term of office the Portuguese Presidency is to organise a summit with Russia to be held in Mafra, a town not far from our capital, Lisbon.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, known as Frontex, set up by Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, which I mentioned earlier, is intended to improve integrated management at the EU's external borders.
The role and functions of the Frontex Agency are set out in the Regulation, which takes account of the fact that the Member States retain responsibility for the control and surveillance of external borders.
The Presidency agrees with the honourable Member that not all the points in the two Commission proposals - one on improving police cooperation and the other on the principle of availability - are included in the 'Prüm' Decision.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The Portuguese Presidency is operating in this area in an ambitious but also realistic manner.
When considering the measures taken or that we are proposing to take, we always look at the starting point and our intended destination and, in fact, on this matter of police cooperation, I think that we have made remarkable and considerable progress in relation to our starting point.
The Portuguese Presidency will therefore support, develop and implement the measures that were agreed and that in our view represent positive progress in police cooperation in relation to the previous situation.
That will take place again this year during the Portuguese Presidency and will provide a suitable opportunity, the right opportunity, moreover, for those issues to be debated - as they will be - by the Council.
Subject: Outcome of the EU-Brazil summit Could the Council give its assessment of the EU-Brazil summit held on 4 July 2007, in particular the economic and trade relations dimension?
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As you know, the EU-Brazil summit was held in Lisbon on 4 July with a view to launching a bilateral strategic partnership to enhance cooperation between the two parties in a wide range of areas of common interest.
The Commissioner for Trade, Peter Mandelson, repeated that obtaining positive results in the Doha Development Round was, and would continue to be a priority for the EU.
Both parties concurred that reaching an agreement in Doha would help to conclude an agreement between the EU and Mercosul.
On the subjects of climate change and energy, both parties referred to the International Conference on Biofuels held on 5 and 6 July in Brussels, as a step in the right direction to allay criticisms that the use of biofuels was allegedly harmful.
Economic issues were broached, but you will understand that they were broached in a more general and strategic context, focusing in particular upon issues that are on the agenda within the scope of the talks in the Doha negotiating process.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I think that, with the launching of this initiative by the Portuguese Presidency, all the conditions are now in place for an open and frank debate with Brazil on all the issues that could disrupt our bilateral relations, but also on all those that could develop and strengthen those relations.
Subject: EU assistance to Estonia regarding agreements on fisheries with Russia on Lake Peipsi The Council is undoubtedly aware that 126 kilometres of the EU-Russia border run along Lake Peipsi.
Notwithstanding the geographical area of application of the agreement, Article 13 provides that the Parties may agree to extend cooperation on the management of anadromous and catadromous species, but excludes species which live their entire life cycle in internal waters.
Consequently, as Community law stands, the Council can only recommend that the honourable Member address her question to the European Commission, so that the matter is raised in the context of the bilateral agreement between the European Community and the Government of the Russian Federation as soon as that agreement enters into force. (ET) But the reply as it relates to Lake Peipsi does not entirely satisfy me: in terms of size it is the third largest lake in the European Union and the only one where a professional fishing industry operates.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The honourable Member wishes her question to stand and I, unfortunately, have to say that my answer also stands.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The political situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina is in a very delicate phase.
The verdict of the International Court of Justice in the case brought at the end of February by Bosnia-Herzegovina against Serbia and Montenegro on the application of the Convention on Genocide, brought to the surface the antagonisms which seemed to have been to some extent assuaged following the setting up of the Council of Ministers on 9 February.
As regards relations with the EU and the stabilisation and association process, the technical talks on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement were concluded in December, all Member States having given full support to the result of the technical negotiations on that agreement on 3 May.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Thank you for your question, suggestion and opinion.
Questions Nos 14, 15 and 16 have been withdrawn.
Subject: The European Court of Auditors The Maastricht Treaty of 1992 significantly changed the EU's institutional framework, incorporating into it the European Court of Auditors (Article 7 of the Treaty).
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) This question will probably receive the fastest answer this session because it is not, in fact, within the Council's brief to comment on the work of the Intergovernmental Conference for the reform of the Treaties which, as we know, began on 23 July 2007. (PL) Mr President, it really does seem to me that this is very much a question for the Council to raise, especially as we are currently talking about a new treaty that is set to revolutionise the new European Union, and placing the Court of Auditors in the section 'other institutions and advisory bodies' is a clear downgrading of this institution in terms of how it is viewed by citizens.
Subject: Demarcation between Schengen and non-Schengen Member States Taking into account the statements from both the Irish Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern and the British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, who stated that both countries needed to end the demarcation between Schengen and non-Schengen Member States, and in view of the Portuguese Presidency's priorities in relation to Schengen, can the Council comment on how it intends to open further border controls and cooperation between Schengen and non-Schengen Member States before the end of the Presidency?
At its meeting on 12 and 13 June 2007 the Council asked the Portuguese Presidency to adhere to the timetable for Schengen Information System evaluation visits, with a view to adopting by November 2007 the decisions referred to in Article 3(2) of the 2003 Act of Accession with regard to those Member States which acceded to the European Union in 2004 and were given until the end of December 2007 to end border controls at internal land borders and at maritime borders, and until March 2008 at the latest for air borders, as soon as all the conditions were met.
With regard to Ireland and the United Kingdom, Article 4 of Protocol 2 of the Treaty of Amsterdam incorporating the Schengen acquis within the scope of the European Union states that Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which are not bound by the Schengen acquis, may at any time request to take part in some or all of the provisions of this acquis.
There have been statements by the British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, and the Irish Prime Minister, Bertie Ahern, that both countries needed to end the demarcation between Schengen and non-Schengen.
President-in-Office of the Council (PT). - The EU-Israel human rights working group, set up at the meeting of the EU-Israel Subcommittee on Political Dialogue and Cooperation on 21 November 2005, is the platform which makes it possible to make a regular, systematic and in-depth analysis as well as for both parties to debate human rights issues, as the honourable Member wishes, and as the Council itself wishes.
Moreover, human rights is a constant theme at all levels of the ongoing political contact between the EU and Israel.
After 40 years of occupation of the Palestinian territories, there are clearly persistent breaches of Palestinian human rights as a result of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories.
Those topics are particularly dear to our hearts and therefore feature in our dialogue with third countries, including Israel; we shall always include those points in the regular dialogue that we have with the Israeli authorities.
In response to the recent acts of violence and violation of human rights, on 23 April the Council decided to extend the visa ban list.
It is with that objective and that intention that the Portuguese Presidency is determined to conduct the second EU-Africa Summit in Lisbon in December.
We are convinced that that Summit is in our interest and in the interest of the other Member States, in the interest of the EU and also of Africa.
With Africa we have to discuss immigration, the economy, trade, energy, the climate, and also naturally human rights and good governance, subjects which we have already been discussing and which were also debated and discussed at the first Summit held in Cairo in 2000 during Portugal's previous Presidency.
It is an objective which we set for our Presidency and it is an objective which we intend to continue to work towards in close cooperation with our partners, both within the EU and also in Africa.
Secondly, and in reply to the second question, the Council would remind the honourable Member that the 'Nord Stream' project is a private project being carried out by 'Nord Stream AG' as a joint venture.
Moreover, as the Council mentioned in its answer to Oral Question by Nils Lundgren on the Russo-German gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea, the development of a pipeline between Russia and Germany through the Baltic Sea was declared a project of European interest in Decision No 1364/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Effective diversification of energy sources and transport routes was mentioned in the European Council's Community action plan of March 2007 as one of the means of improving security of supply.
Subject: Mordechai Vanunu sentenced to six months in prison On 2 July 2007, Mordechai Vanunu - a former nuclear technician and a pacifist for over 20 years - was sentenced by the Jerusalem Magistrates' Court to six months in prison for (according to the Israeli authorities) breaching the terms of an administrative order restricting his freedom of speech and freedom of movement.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As may be seen from our answers to questions,, and, the Council is following with interest the case of Mordechai Vanunu, especially his situation following his release in 2004, mentioned by the honourable Member in her question.
As regards flexicurity, I can tell you that for Portugal and for this Portuguese Presidency flexicurity means flexibility but also security and for us the two go together.
