We are convinced that, in order to be effective in the fight against terrorism, Europe must have a common policy in this area as well, in order to go beyond the increasingly close and effective cooperation amongst the countries of the Union – of which Spain and France are a good example – and between the Union and third countries; a policy that responds to the concerns of the citizens and that can be promoted as a model throughout the world.
Terrorism is incompatible with democracy.
This House has been at the forefront in this field on more than one occasion.
On 6 September 2001, just days before the attack on the Twin Towers, two recommendations were adopted here: the arrest warrant and the common definition of the crime of terrorism, which were able to be adopted by the Council in December of that same year thanks to the fact that we, the European Parliament, had done our work on time.
Europe is a model of democracy and respect for human rights.
We therefore combat terrorism in order to defend and promote democracy and in order to guarantee respect for human rights, because we know that terrorism is the enemy of democracy.
We therefore propose a European policy to combat terrorism in order to guarantee respect for collective and individual human rights, the right to life, freedom of expression, freedom of movement, ideological freedom and religious freedom: a European policy that combats terrorism in order to make collective security compatible with individual freedom and dignity.
They are all pioneering, but they are all possible.
Also politically significant is our commitment to promote an international definition of the crime of terrorism, something which is increasingly necessary if we want, as proposed by Kofi Annan in the Madrid Agenda, these crimes to be pursued and punished throughout the world.
As a Socialist, as a Basque, as a Spaniard and as a European, I am proud that this Parliament is once again acknowledging the memory of the victims of terrorism.
I would also like to thank all the MEPs who have worked and cooperated, sometimes on the basis of discrepancies and sometimes on the basis of agreement, on this report on the prevention of and response to terrorist attacks and I would like in particular to thank my good friends Rosa Díez and Antoine Duquesne for their cooperation and their contributions to this report.
A political project is much more ambitious than a list of measures.
A political project is always the result of a priority, of an emphasis and, above all, of an appropriate and correct mindset.
And a political project, above all, has the capacity to be summed up and understood simultaneously by a public opinion that appreciates the efforts of a politician to turn that list of measures into a political project.
Allow me to point out that the recent results in Europe confirm to us that we need a limited number of political projects, because there cannot be infinite political projects.
There must be a crisis management, coordination and monitoring and information processing centre in Europe.
Terrorists want the opposite; they want us to ignore them.
That is one of the aims proposed in my report.
Such an objective must be fulfilled while observing the privacy of personal data – a point on which many Members have insisted during the debate – with a view to strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, which are severely threatened by international terrorism.
Measures for preventing and countering the funding of terrorism, therefore, must centre on these institutions.
From this standpoint, we warmly welcome the commitment made on behalf of the Commission by Mr&#160;Frattini – whom we thank for his report – for the immediate presentation to the European Parliament of a proposal for a regulation on the traceability of financial transactions.
It is necessary to reflect carefully, therefore, on the need for cooperation in the exchange of information and on the requirement for an instrument that will allow us to stop terrorism in real time, by means of effective measures and intervention, in order to prevent crocodile tears from being shed at a later date for the hundreds of dead victims of the attacks, or, worse still, of biological terror attacks.
It is obvious that the organisation and operational development of terrorist networks entails constantly evolving methods and techniques, which also include infiltrations.
From this standpoint, and whilst having the highest regard for the work and the selflessness of not-for-profit organisations, I felt it necessary to stress the real danger of not-for-profit charitable organisations being infiltrated by terrorist groups, as many investigations have already documented.
These organisations must ensure maximum transparency in managing their funds, must exclusively use official bank accounts and standard financial channels, and must publish their budget plans – this also protects the not-for-profit sector, which is a source of pride for European civil society.
I would like to conclude by recalling the still entirely unresolved issue of financial and tax havens, both inside and outside the European Union, which even today can offer a veil of protection to the international terrorist organisations that threaten the peace and security of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, terrorism is an amorphous and multifaceted phenomenon which has hit Europe hard and which, unfortunately, will continue to pose a major threat to our democracies if we fail to reach a wide-ranging consensus in order to fight it, if there is not a firm commitment to cooperation between us and if we do not adopt an overarching strategy to eradicate it.
I hope that these reports will be adopted, if not unanimously - which would be ideal - then at least by a very substantial majority.
Exchanges of information have a key part to play in preventing the menace of terrorism and in effectively combating major crime.
The Swedish proposal is helpful because it provides for swift bilateral exchanges as part of horizontal cooperation between the services in the Member States.
To my mind, these proposals complement one another.
In this way it will finally be possible to convey to the police in very simple and specific terms, possibly by means of a code, what amounts to good practice.
This will allow objections which are very often used to justify inaction to be set aside.
If the vote is largely in favour, as was the case in committee, it will be impossible for the Council and the Commission to turn a deaf ear and to ignore proposals that I believe to be well balanced.
We also need to react as a matter of urgency to other vitally important dossiers, such as the European register of convictions and the fight against the financing of terrorism, because terrorism is dependent upon money.
We also need to set up an early warning system by strengthening cooperation between information services and by providing better protection for locations most at risk.
In such cases, solidarity must be the order of the day: specific political solidarity that marshals all our resources and energy both to provide assistance and to crack down on such acts.
We need to think still more about the victims of terrorism.
In some cases, this may be the existence of a free society; in others it may be the right of personal privacy.
I heartily agree with the shadow rapporteurs, and I should like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to them, that we are not fundamentally opposed to the proposals made by the governments of the United Kingdom, Ireland, France and Sweden.
We would certainly insist, however, that measures involving significant curtailments of fundamental rights, which – as all law students learn in the first term at every European university – must always be properly justified, are based on a needs assessment which endorses the measures in question.
This assessment should not be confined to identifying the need for action but should also outline the benefits of retaining, as a matter of course, data from public telecommunications networks – the Internet, landlines, mobile phones and SMS – which could relate to any of 450 million people.
The main problem I should like to re-examine in this context is that of the procedural method.
In the meantime, the Council’s proposal has undergone several amendments.
The most recent proposal dates from 24&#160;May.
Since Parliament is not up to date on these, not having been involved in the latest discussions to the extent of receiving a new document through official channels, we can scarcely be expected to express unbounded enthusiasm about the cooperation of the other institutions in this matter.
It is a matter of creating databases designed to store as much data as it is possible and necessary to retain; it is a matter of ascertaining how easily ways can be found to circumvent the provisions contained in the present proposal and how easy or difficult it may and must be for the relevant industry to effect the requisite structural changes – and this is the economic crux of the matter – without the need for compensation.
Perhaps some of the new proposals set out different rules on this last point, but there was certainly no provision for compensation in the version on which we had to base our deliberations.
Another aspect is the political message conveyed in the justification of the first document, which states that the system should be deliberately designed to include those who have never come under suspicion so that it can achieve the goal of combating terrorism and organised crime as comprehensively and efficiently as possible.
Perhaps an alternative solution could be sought among the other available options.
We have the Convention on Cybercrime, which proposes ways of striking a reasonable balance between the storage and protection of data, such as the use of a data freeze or a system of data preservation.
As the report shows, we believe, and the legal services believe, that this matter should be part of the first pillar of the EU Treaty, in other words one of the areas in which our Parliament engages in joint decision-making and is not merely consulted.
This, unfortunately, has not been fully understood by part of the European electorate in recent weeks, and some of the responsibility for that surely lies with us.
Be that as it may, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that we are liable to be confronted with the problem of bioterrorism.
I should also like to know how these preparations have progressed over the past year and over the last few months since the appointment of a common European coordinator.
I believe that terrorism is genuinely the new tyranny of the 21st century, a tyranny which seeks to limit our freedoms and to attack people’s fundamental rights – the right to life and physical safety – and I therefore agree with your approach.
As many of you are already aware, one of the main elements of the action plan approved on Friday in Luxembourg was precisely the creation of a permanent monitoring instrument.
For instance, with regard to certain points outlined in Mrs&#160;Díez González’s report, we are working on a communication on explosives, detonators and firearms, and on a second communication that concerns the radicalisation and recruitment of terrorists.
In addition to these measures, we will clearly and promptly put forward a number of proposals on the issue of the funding of terrorism – I will return to this issue – with particular reference to certain organisations that assist and support terrorism.
The aim is to create a European network that will enable the immediate exchange of information – I would say in real time – between all of the Member States in the event of a terrorist attack.
I believe that the key to the success of this strategy lies in the principle of inclusiveness: all of the actors in society, both public and private, must be able to participate in the democratic debate on terrorism.
If we tell the citizens that there exist practical measures and that together we are fine-tuning them, I believe that the citizens can feel reassured by the fact that the great institutions of Europe are working, and will continue to work, proactively.
I can tell you that an important seminar is taking place in Brussels on this issue as we speak, with 150 representatives of the 25 Member States in attendance.
We will organise a second European public seminar in September in order to then be able to present a tangible programme by the end of the year.
In this context, we will have a sum of EUR 1.5 million available for studies relating to best practice in the exchange of information among Member States on the security standards for critical infrastructures.
Each Member State must obviously invest in the structures in place on its own territory.
With regard to the funding of terrorism, which is the subject addressed in Mr&#160;Borghezio’s report, I am in agreement with the main points outlined in the report.
With regard to this issue, we therefore aim by this summer to propose to Parliament and the Council a draft regulation on information and the instruments that will be used in tracing financial transactions.
They are amendments that take account of the important conference held a few days ago in Poland, and which highlight the importance of every person’s right to personal data protection, even when we are confronted by terrorism.
I agree with Mr&#160;Duquesne’s thoughts on the role of Europol and Eurojust.
It is important to allow these bodies access to a wide spectrum of information, so that they may effectively carry out the exchange and coordination work which is the role of Europol, as is evident from the organisation’s new remit, received a few days ago by its new director.
The principle of personal data protection must respond to real needs.
I shall be presenting the actual text by the end of this summer.
The final subject that I would like to address quickly is bioterrorism.
The rapporteur is aware that the Commission has some powers, but not all.
It can take charge of food safety, the trade in medicinal products, coordination between the Member States, civil protection and the funding of research.
You are aware that, following the 2005 bioterrorist attack using traces of anthrax, a high level committee for public health safety was set up with an effective programme of cooperation for prevention and rapid response.
The cooperation in progress is working and we are able to tell you that there is a system that can provide a rapid alert in the event of a biological, chemical or radiological attack, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
As you are aware, MrKyprianou unveiled an important European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control barely a week ago.
We will continue to encourage the Member States on these issues.
They are not like other organisations that have the same sense of time as us.
Terrorism first and foremost targets our security, but it also fundamentally jeopardises our freedom.
We must find ways of defending ourselves against terrorism and protecting our security whilst ensuring that our civil and human rights and our freedom do not fall victim as a result.
Finally, we recommend and urge that the Member States of the European Union ratify the various international agreements and treaties relating to combating terrorism as soon as possible.
On the contrary, that attack demonstrated that there are many different types of terrorism; the means for combating those different types of terrorism must not, therefore, be generic, but rather specific and suited to each of them.
I entirely agree with Mr Mayor Oreja when he says that prevention must be based on the rapid and bilateral exchange of information amongst the specialised services of the Member States, on facilitating the systematic transmission of information to Europol and Eurojust and on the creation of registers, such as the register of European criminals, to facilitate investigations.
No difficulty must hinder the effective protection of freedom and the right to life.
Before I begin, however, let me thank the rapporteur and everyone else who was involved for their work.
The Commission’s proposal on the retention of stored and processed data could contribute to the pursuit of that aim, but not in its present form.
Regrettably, it contains no plausible evidence that the proposed measures will actually serve to improve our collective ability to fight crime and terrorism.
Without this evidence, however, it is absolutely impossible to justify the profound effects of this type of data storage on people and businesses.
I know that the Commission is currently working on a proposal of its own.
Let me also add a few words on the current process.
As far as the procedural provisions are concerned, I should have liked to see a different form of parliamentary involvement in this sensitive matter.
Data protection, which truly affects every individual and every business, demands a proper legislative process.
Under the EC Treaty, this includes the full participation of the European Parliament.
All of which leads me to conclude that the proposal for a framework directive must be thoroughly overhauled in the light of the criticisms voiced by the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, this is a very important debate and I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, in particular my colleagues Mr Mayor Oreja and Mrs Díez González, on their reports.
The report by Mrs Díez González, in particular, is highly ambitious and is intended to provide the citizens with a very high level of protection against terrorism.
We are currently facing a very specialised kind of crime, terrorism, and this requires action not just by State institutions, but also cooperation in the international field.
As far as we are concerned, we believe that cooperation within the framework of the European institutions is fundamental and, in this regard, I would like to stress the importance of the swift ratification of the European Constitution to the citizens of Europe, since it establishes a framework for fighting terrorism that begins with the recognition of peoples’ right to life and to physical integrity, as a fundamental right, and goes on to enshrine an area of freedom, security and justice.
The Solidarity clause in Article I-43 of the European Constitution states that ‘The Union and its Member States shall act jointly in a spirit of solidarity if a Member State is the victim of terrorist attack or natural or man-made disaster.’ It then says, ‘The Union shall mobilise all the instruments at its disposal, including the military resources made available by the Member States, to: a) prevent the terrorist threat in the territory of the Member States, protect democratic institutions and the civilian population from any terrorist attack, assist a Member State in its territory at the request of its political authorities in the event of a terrorist attack; b) assist a Member State in its territory at the request of its political authorities in the event of a disaster.’ Furthermore, the European Constitution establishes a mechanism for cooperation amongst the Member States.
Mr President, the victims must be heard, they must be respected and they must be protected, and the resources must be provided for doing all of this.
Terrorist crimes can never be justified and they must be pursued in every part of the world.
Nevertheless, Mr President, inspired by my commitment to the victims, I have presented an amendment to Mr Borghezio’s report: Amendment 4, which relates to forms of terrorist funding.
The National High Court has the legislation and processes in place for these crimes.
I am therefore appealing in particular this morning to Mrs Roure to take account of what I am saying, because the support of the second largest group in the House and the other groups here is very important.
I would ask you affectionately to accept and support this amendment, and to support an amendment using other more acceptable terms, such as ‘form of extortion that the terrorist organisation ETA calls a revolutionary tax’, for example, since I am talking about solidarity with the Basque and Spanish businesspeople suffering from this type of extortion.
Finally, Mr President, and I will end here, I would like to address Mr Gijs de Vries: the threat persists.
And Mr de Vries, who knows that the threat persists, must have sufficient resources not just to produce strategic reports, but also to run an office that can fight terrorism effectively. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs and all the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, who have made a particularly important contribution to this work and to this debate.
We need to demonstrate our determination by agreeing a united response as regards the fight against terrorism, because terrorist organisations have no respect for national frontiers when they commit their crimes.
That is why, for us, the only effective response to terrorism is a response at European level.
The European Action Plan against terrorism must be the Union’s basic political tool in this area.
Having said that, we cannot limit ourselves solely to security policy, because terrorism amounts to a denial of our citizens’ freedoms.
We must promote the values of democracy and solidarity if we are to combat the causes of terrorism.
By the same token, however, it would be unacceptable for the fight against terrorism to favour new forms of discrimination.
We also need to find a way of coordinating the European Union’s internal and external policies for combating terrorism.
Furthermore, there is no doubt that transport security has an important part to play in the fight against terrorism, but it must be achieved while respecting our citizens’ right to privacy and protection of their personal data.
The third money laundering directive, which also covers the financing of terrorism, will also provide us with means of combating networks supporting terrorism.
We are therefore calling for Europol and Eurojust to be strengthened, so that they can genuinely coordinate the fight against terrorism and organised crime in Europe.
Unfortunately, this process has been slowed down by a lack of political will on the part of the Member States to make European decisions truly effective.
We are living in an era of fundamentalism, accompanied by fanaticism and terrorism.
Several reports are being presented to this House today, each of which has followed its own course through the committee stage, and, together, they demonstrate very clearly the importance that this Parliament attaches to this debate.
The rapporteurs for these reports deserve our congratulations and we should also be pleased that they have appreciated the need to accept many amendments that have improved them and have clarified some of the statements contained in the original texts, in some cases in a very significant manner.
In any event, today this Parliament will make very clear its commitment to an extremely vigorous fight against terrorism in terms of policing, in terms of judicial efficiency, but one that, at the same time, is extremely respectful of human rights, of data protection, of the guarantees without which this fight against terrorism makes no sense, a fight that takes account of the victims of terrorism, on the basis of respect — it naturally does not put political decisions into their hands, that would not be appropriate, but it is logical that they should have a voice and be heard directly — and which, without justifying terrorism nor those who sacrifice themselves or are capable of indiscriminate murder in any way, without justifying it under any circumstances, it is an anti-terrorist policy that deals with the possible reasons why somebody may become a terrorist.
Our goal is to win this war without sacrificing our own decency, casting aside our humanity, betraying our own laws or endangering personal freedom within our own domestic territory.
This makes firm resolve and a common approach essential, but it also requires us to realise that we must not let our sensitivity to our own people’s needs and rights be deadened at the sound of the word ‘terrorism’ or give for the use of any and every instrument in the war on terrorism.
I believe it is particularly important to emphasise that fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law do not seem to be adequately protected by the provisions of this draft.
There is another aspect, however, that confronts us with an entirely new situation.
It builds on the foundations of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, parliamentary codecision, open legislative processes, the solidarity clause, the right to determine the disclosure and use of one’s own personal data, parliamentary scrutiny, judicial review and the dissolution of the pillar structure in favour of a unified Europe.
No, it is an absolute, imperative and indispensable prerequisite for this package of measures and its legitimacy and for the defence of fundamental rights.
That is the ideological premise that has given rise in recent years to the theory of preventative war, the violation of individual freedoms, the end of personal data protection, and the fixation on security.
We must carefully analyse the spiral of war and terrorism, because the military response has strengthened terrorism, and we cannot sidestep this issue.
Such a fixation also reveals a cultural subordination to the United States.
We, however, cannot look upon not-for-profit organisations as the main source of terrorist funding, as do some of the rapporteurs in this House.
Terrorism must be combated and defeated: the aim is noble, but the methods are all too often improper and sometimes criminal.
I believe that in order to combat terrorism, we must re-examine the old legal proverb that says that the king is never wrong. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this debate on terrorism I welcome the fact that last Saturday morning, in Belfast, an IRA member, Terry Davison, was charged in court with the murder of Robert McCartney and that a second IRA person, Jim McCormick, was charged with the attempted murder of Mr McCartney's friend, Brendan Devine.
As shadow rapporteur for my group, I have tried to make a positive contribution to the Borghezio report to help combat the financing of terrorism.
It is evident from all interventions that there is general agreement on the need for coordinated action to combat internationally organised crime and the means by which it is financed.
After all, the benefit of European cooperation in this respect is beyond dispute.
Following the attacks of 11 September 2001, everyone was suddenly given a wake-up call, and no fewer than 86 dossiers were opened in our country.
Such statistics, but also the result of the enquiry into the murder of Theo van Gogh in the Netherlands, for example, demonstrate that we must, as a matter of urgency, adopt preventive policies based on the exchange of information, better traceability of financial transactions and greater transparency of legal entities.
Finally, we also want to provide charities with the necessary funds to guarantee a more effective protection against abuse by terrorist organisations.
We therefore hope that this report can give the initial impetus for combating the financing of terrorism in the European Union in a structural and sustainable manner. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that we must take resolute action against international terrorism and organised crime.
We made this abundantly clear with our vote in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
What we have in this case is a knee-jerk reaction, which merely creates the illusion of greater security.
We surely cannot seriously intend to store data on more than four million people generated by the use of the Internet, telephone calls and text messages.
If in doubt, we need only look across the ocean to the country that very often exceeds the bounds of reason in its anti-terrorism measures.
The German Bundestag has rejected the Council’s proposal.
Finland has also warned against data retention.
We are not talking here about a single measure to combat terrorism but about public protection and the rights of every individual in this European Union.
For the Council to say in this context that it will decide unilaterally as it always has done will not bring the European Union any further forward.
Of course, threats to our security are threats to our freedom, but the reverse is also true.
Undue infringements of our civil liberties make us less secure as individuals.
I am concerned about the potential for profiling people as potential terrorists on the basis of their race, religion or political opinions.
The Council of Europe guidelines on detaining suspects without fair trial have certainly been breached in the United Kingdom and probably in other EU countries.
Member States conduct peer review of each other's anti-terrorism and security measures, but they still have not managed to make all Member States even implement the 2002 framework decision on terrorism – the very law which makes it obligatory to criminalise terrorism.
Much has been said about terrorism being an attack on our fundamental freedoms and that we should thus not make the mistake of undermining those same civil rights.
Moreover, the Council trying to circumvent democratic control by taking this decision in the third, instead of the first, pillar offers us little comfort.
For indeed, once again, if we want to protect democracy from terrorism, we should not mess it up in the first place. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to thank all the rapporteurs for their reports, but when we talk about terrorism, we need to take particular care to present a clear position on the content of the term.
Unfortunately, the degree of excess in the measures being adopted under the Action Plan allows conservative forces to justify taking measures which do anything but defend a climate of security.
The plethora of measures taken by the European Union in its fight against terrorism is based mainly on the need for there to be a climate of security.
The Action Plan responds mainly to a given interpretation of terrorism and does not aim to resolve its deeper causes.
The station was burnt to the ground and it is a terrible thing to see people surrounded by flames trying to save themselves.
I have also been attacked in my home.
Firstly, surely it is a crying shame that to date, it is still so awkward and such an uphill struggle to achieve concrete cooperation and exchange of information on combating terrorism, not only between one Member State and another, but also between the European Member States and the other countries of the free west.
We know that following the Madrid bomb attack, terrorist cells have been exposed across the whole of Europe.
Terrorism in Europe has become almost exclusively Islamic.
Terrorism is an abstract term but it has a specific political bedrock.
Consequently, the global strategy against terrorism will only succeed either when we have wiped all – and I mean all – terrorists out, or if the political support on which terrorism is based disappears.
As a tactic of war or political tactic, terrorism is the most abominable of phenomena.
However, those who practise barbaric terrorist methods cite some special religious and/or occasionally social cause and they have moral and political support from a number of societies.
Together with the condemnatory chatter of the European Union and the escalation of legislative and other measures against terrorism, we need to develop our own communication strategy with the moderate elements in these societies.
That is the only way that terrorism will disappear rather than diminish, and it is in this direction that the European Union, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission must turn as one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank all the rapporteurs for the work that has gone into producing the reports that we are discussing today, which repeatedly stress the fact that upholding and promoting human rights is the most important and best strategy for preventing and fighting terror.
Commissioner Frattini has indicated that counter-terrorism should, in fact, entail a reinforcement of human rights, and I could not agree more.
Upholding and promoting such important values as democracy, freedom, pluralism and human dignity is crucial in the fight against terrorism.
Instead, as the Internet is indeed developing into by far the best means of communication for people who want to find out about terrorists and recruit them for others, we should get our security services to specialise in Internet participation, in reading and chatting on the Internet, in other words, to actively monitor what happens in that medium.
I think that such a measure – the legal basis of which has been discussed here several times and moreover, the way in which this decision has been taken is a blatant violation of democracy – undermines confidence in European democracy, the risks of which have recently made themselves felt in a painful manner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by expressing my regret at the French and the Dutch ‘no’ to the Constitution, because the EU will now have to fight terrorism with one hand tied behind its back.
The citizens have given a very clear signal in the debate on the referenda.
But I would add to those examples the case of the Dutch Parliament, which wanted to adopt a similar data retention measure.
Finally, I ask the European Parliament to show its colours.
I believe that these incredibly broad, abusive and arbitrary definitions of terrorism mean that we are losing our ability to act effectively in the fight against terrorism.
I accordingly believe that we, that is to say the European Union, should make a significant effort, as quickly as possible – at the next UN General Assembly, for example – to secure a definition of terrorism, which is vital and which will also facilitate genuine cooperation between states, at European level and also at world level. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, allow me to remind the House of the wise words of Benjamin Franklin, one of the fathers of the American Constitution, who said that ’Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety’.
It goes without saying that our national investigating authorities must cooperate more closely.
This is the only way of ultimately cutting off its supply line. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is not a new phenomenon, but the tragic events of recent years have demonstrated its destructive power.
I commend all of the rapporteurs for their efforts and their work on this dossier.
All terrorist acts, methods or practices are politically and morally unjustifiable, and must be unequivocally condemned and staunchly combated.
It was in this context that the post of EU coordinator in the fight against terrorism was created, and I should like to welcome Mr De Vries, who is in the House today.
I support a clear strategy in the fight against terrorism aimed at striking a balance between collective security and individual freedom.
The warning system relating to the trade in goods and the provision of services must be improved, in order to provide better monitoring of suspected movements, without disrupting the normal dynamics of the market.
We are now living in a world of two extremes, and by this I mean not only a world of poverty and wealth, but also a world of good and evil.
We have learned to carry out scientific research into terrorism, to identify its different forms and to look in detail at its causes.
One of the European Union’s basic duties, and one which is enshrined in Article&#160;29 of the Treaty of Maastricht, is to provide its citizens with a high level of safety.
The questions we should be asking ourselves are whether it is succeeding in doing so, and whether our citizens feel safe.
The likely answer to the second of these questions is that they do not always feel safe, because we are all aware of what happened on 11&#160;March in Madrid, and of a great many similar incidents.
Criminals exploit the benefits of integration&#160;by moving about freely within the EU, where there are no internal borders.
They frequently go unpunished, since the EU has 25 different legal and penal systems.
In order to stop this happening, the EU must develop new and more effective instruments.
The anti-terrorist package under debate today is intended to help us to do just that.
Consideration is given to all previous regulations and measures, from TREVI in 1975 to the Hague Programme, via Vienna, Tampere and the action plan adopted following 11&#160;September&#160;2001.
These measures have resulted in the introduction of a European arrest warrant, the establishment of Eurojust and the appointment of an EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator.
If we wish to achieve results, however, the EU must do more than merely making constant and systematic improvements to the instruments it uses in the fight against terrorism.
New measures that involve closer cooperation are needed in order to find a solution to what is known as megaterrorism, or in other words terrorism using weapons of mass destruction.
By doing so, we will be able to make our own contribution to the fight against terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against terrorism it is important both to combine forces at national level and at the same time enhance cooperation between the institutions of the Union.
The fight against terrorism is fundamentally linked to measures that already help to reduce our society’s vulnerability.
An example might be ensuring the security of industrial activity and effective cooperation and exchange of information in the emergency services.
Acts of terror are tragic and, as their name suggests, they are designed to spread fear and panic.
For that reason, European societies have to be made stronger from within, in terms of their structures and culture in relation to action, and become societies where there is less potential for terrorism.
Effective counter-terrorism measures can only be successful when they combine the best European expertise, research into the defence and the emergency service sectors, and other security-related research. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Council decisions and the reports which we are debating today are endeavouring, on the pretext of combating terrorism, to achieve, firstly, the creation and application of a more autocratic institutional framework and the creation and strengthening of new repressive mechanisms, monitoring systems etc., the real objective of which is not the fight against this terrorism you are talking about, but the rising grass-roots movement and the peoples' fight against the new imperialist order.
Secondly, they are endeavouring, by adopting preventive war against terrorism, to prepare the people to accept new interventions and wars.
It is telling that not one report denounces – on the contrary they exonerate – the state terrorist action of the United States and other countries in Afghanistan and Iraq, Israeli terrorism in Palestine etc.
However, in order for terrorism to be prevented and combated effectively, there needs to be systematic cooperation between the Member States at legislative level and the level of information exchange, in blocking financing and in protecting international transport.
The reports by all the rapporteurs, through various points of view, converge in common findings with which I fully agree.
However, I believe that the existence of numerous texts, not only of these eight reports being debated today, but of all the others which have been adopted from time to time, is creating the risk of confusion and inefficacy.
I should like to propose to the Commissioner here present, Mr Frattini, that the competent Commission services proceed to codify all the relevant texts.
Confusion does not create the preconditions for the proper combating of terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I really only wish to refer to one point, which relates to the announcement at the very end of your speech, Commissioner, that you intend to conduct two simulations in the near future.
We then discussed the subject again in the framework of the New Defence Agenda in Brussels on 25&#160;April.
This cooperation is extremely important, but at the present time it is still very sporadic in some cases.
It is not conducted systematically either, nor does its methodology give us any real cause for satisfaction with the present system.
It is not reliable, nor is it transparent, either in general terms or in relation to Parliament, and transparency is crucial if the defects of the system are to be identified and corrected.
The second inadequacy is in the field of prevention.
Firstly, there is a very close balance between individual liberty and security and we have to be very careful when we deal with it in relation to terrorism.
My second point is that the fight against terrorism is really an area where the European Union has value added; it is an area where the Member States cannot and will not be able to operate alone.
If one Member State is faced with a terrorist attack, all the other Member States are required to help out.
That solidarity clause, though not yet implemented, worked rather well in the face of the Madrid attacks.
Bioterrorism is a weapon that requires us to use our imagination.
I am counting on the EU to play an organisational role in consolidating the efforts of states and nations.
The United Kingdom has had to deal with the Irish Republican terrorism of Sinn&#160;Féin/IRA for over three decades and as they say themselves, they have not gone away, you know.
As we have seen, Member States cooperating on a bilateral basis, without being hamstrung by needlessly heavy institutional constraints, have produced results.
Such flexible, targeted, measured and appropriate responses are good examples of what can be achieved.
But we also need to be aware of the nature of the threat that we are dealing with.
The IRA is different from ETA, which is different from al-Qa'ida, but they are all evil and must be faced down and eliminated.
But above all else, we need to work together, exchanging information, assisting each other to deal with these ongoing threats, the undoubted threats to our freedom and to our democracy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that terrorism nowadays is a reality which we cannot, unfortunately, avoid.
From a marginal phenomenon in the 1970's which restricted itself for the most part to within the framework of a state and to specific objectives, it has, unfortunately, developed over recent years into attacks which leave a great many dead and use advanced technological means.
The cause of this rise is the perpetuation of unresolved political and social problems.
The international community has failed to prove its unshaken intention to set peaceful cohabitation processes in motion in specific areas of conflict caused by religious, political and ethnic differences.
Terrorism revived where the organised international community, or a part of it, unilaterally endeavoured to impose solutions through violence, which resulted in the creation of new, more violent conflicts.
The debate and vote today in the European Parliament on the eight reports which aim to combat it are important.
The solution lies in achieving conditions of world peace, equality and prosperity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Frattini and Mr&#160;de&#160;Vries, I would firstly congratulate the rapporteurs on their improvements to the Council’s anti-terrorist proposals which are indeed designed to make the fight against terrorism more effective in a number of excellent ways.
These issues highlight the need for a new Constitution that will better enable us to combat crime and terrorism.
The issue of data storage splendidly illustrates the way in which the pillar system has come to the end of the road.
The Council has acted provocatively and decided to implement legislation opposed by the European Parliament.
We need strengthened democracy and more vigorous action by the Council, and I hope that, in future, the Council will listen to the European Parliament to a much greater degree than it has done so far. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I noticed that Mr Kirkhope did not describe the IRA, and nor indeed did Mr Allister, as a fundamentalist Roman Catholic organisation, and they were quite right not do so.
That is the basic definition in my view of terrorism: using violence in an anti-democratic way to achieve a political objective.
Of course we have to defend our democratic way of life when it is threatened by violence, but we have to do so in a way that does not deny or reduce basic human rights, not only for society in general, but for those sections of society which are alienated from society at large.
It is extremely important therefore that the measures we are proposing here today are proportionate and justified, and are effective, not only in dealing with terrorism, but also in seeking to ensure that terrorism cannot thrive.
My final point is in relation to bioterrorism.
It is not sarin gas which creates the spectacular death and destruction which the terrorists need for the 6 o'clock news. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to express my enthusiastic support for Mr Alvaro's report.
The European Convention on Human Rights gives us clear guidelines, enforced by the European Court of Justice, on when this data can be stored.
Elsewhere, terrorism proposals have been in line with proportionality, but not in Mr Alvaro’s report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to focus attention on one detail which is often forgotten when terrorism is being spoken about.
It is still an agency without proper resources or effective authority.
That, however, is what is needed to safeguard other forms of European cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to speak specifically about the oral question from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, which concerns bioterrorism.
In 2004, the United States and the European Union agreed to take constructive joint steps to improve our capabilities in this regard.
The Americans made a start with Project BioShield, and we want to know what the European Union is doing.
The current stories about budget cuts for the centre are not acceptable and I hope that a strong message will be sent to the Commission and the Council. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, this debate illustrates that Parliament is aware of the serious threat posed by terrorism and is determined to take strong action to combat it.
There is a threat to our society, to our way of life, to our freedom, and we will only combat that threat if there is full cooperation at both European and international levels, and if we have a coherent policy rather than a mere list of initiatives, as both the Commissioner and Mr Oreja have both rightly pointed out.
Yet whilst we know about the danger and wish to take action, we are also aware that much remains to be done.
These weapons are inexpensive, small, easy to get hold of and have an enormous capacity for destruction, quite apart from the fact that merely simulating the use of such weapons is enough to cause widespread panic.
Europe must therefore respond to the various requirements, be it via the Member States or by means of specific Community programmes.
It must not be forgotten, however, that the EU has made undertakings and it is now time to turn plans into action, and in the context of our international obligations, especially those taken on by the United States in the field of combating bioterrorism, which are being developed on the other side of the Atlantic in the form of Project BioShield.
It is also our duty to be single-minded in our condemnation of terrorism.
Hizbollah, a terrorist group estimated to have been involved in 80% of the terrorist attacks against Israel, still does not feature on the EU list of proscribed organisations.
In the United Kingdom we have highly professional and experienced security services, but their efforts are undermined by a failure on the part of government to take the most basic steps.
In a report last month on the functioning of terrorist legislation in the UK, Lord Carlisle said that in some ports there was effectively no security regarding incomers.
The EU should be involved only where there is some genuine, proven added value and not as a means of extending the competence of EU institutions into yet more areas of activity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism constitutes an extremely grave danger.
It is a problem that can only be solved jointly, together with the various governments in Europe.
During this debate, the thought frequently crossed my mind that one or other of the referenda in France and the Netherlands might have had a different outcome if some voters had been more aware of the problems that concern us, if it could have been made clear that such problems are simply impossible to solve unless Europe acts as one.
This is a case where action is being taken for its own sake, where people are being mollified with measures that may ultimately do nothing to enhance their security.
If that is so, it will not serve to persuade the public that Europe is important and beneficial and to make them accept the results of our work.
I should not like to be held responsible for the public perception of the European Union.
I believe that these seven reports also demonstrate that Parliament attaches great importance to this issue of the fight against terrorism.
These cowardly attacks have affected all of us, both as European citizens and citizens of the world.
We are faced with a constant balancing act here: we need to safeguard our rights and our freedoms while unremittingly confronting those who wish to put those same rights and freedoms at risk.
Nevertheless, it is important to respect private life in this context.
It is always a question of proportionality.
Europe must show that the war on terror and respect for our rights can go hand in hand, without the effectiveness of that war being sacrificed or weakened.
I have also paid heed to the criticisms aired about the European Union as regards coordination and exchanges of information.
Since the occurrence of these events, and in particular the attack in Madrid, there has been a great improvement in coordination, particularly thanks to Mr&#160;de Vries, who has been given a special remit to coordinate all the activities of the European Union and its Member States in the fight against terrorism.
We know that terrorist networks have shown a keen interest in such substances and weapons and that, if they were able to lay their hands on such weapons of mass destruction, they would be in a position to inflict damage on an unprecedented scale and undermine the democratic foundations of our societies.
The directive amending the directive on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use now entitles the Member States temporarily to permit the distribution of authorised medicinal products in the case of an attack involving the spread of pathogens, toxins, chemical agents or nuclear radiation.
Anti-CBRN training for medical staff is being implemented.
The Council’s strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is intended to prevent terrorists from gaining access to such weapons, and it is a matter for regret that the New York conference did not reach agreement on a common text, given that one aspect of the non-proliferation conference was the threat of terrorism in these areas.
As part of another remit, in this case following on from the declaration on the fight against terrorism adopted by the European Council on 25 March 2004, on 2 December 2004 the Council and the Commission adopted the EU solidarity programme on the consequences of terrorist threats and attacks, which revised the CBRN programme and widened it to cover all forms of terrorism.
One of the fundamental principles of the EU strategy is that protection against the consequences of terrorist attacks is chiefly a matter for the Member States.
The CBRN programme, and its successor the solidarity programme, are multidisciplinary programmes involving political, technical, economic, diplomatic, military and legal resources.
In the context of the present solidarity programme, EU action against CBRN terrorism is based on six strategic objectives, which I would like briefly to mention.
Threat analysis and assessment: several analyses of these threats have been carried out by Europol and the EU’s Joint Situation Centre, SITCEN.
Prevention and reduction of vulnerability: legislative measures have been taken to improve compliance with international biosafety and biosecurity standards.
The Council is also carrying out work on an integrated crisis management system.
The United States is also taking part in this work.
We consider this international cooperation, particularly with the Americans, but also with all our other partners, to be extremely important in this context.
Before we proceed to the vote and before my colleague Vice-President Frattini takes the floor, let me just say this by way of conclusion: I believe that the European Union is engaged in a worldwide process of preparation for the fight against all forms of terrorism.
The war on terror, as I said at the beginning, and as your reports have clearly demonstrated, requires a global approach.
There is one issue that we particularly need to take to heart: we must prevent terrorist groups from recruiting within our own societies.
In fact it is such recruitment within our societies, especially amongst rootless young people who are poorly integrated into our own societies, that represents the greatest terrorist threat.
This means that our strategy for combating terrorism needs to include a social aspect, an aspect covering the integration and treatment of these groups, particularly young people, who come from Islamic countries.
There is a profound distinction between those two concepts.
In addition, we must devote our full attention to the measures decided upon at European level, that is to say, the action plan.
I believe that they can be held up as models to the other Member States of the European Union.
I believe that we must essentially introduce the principle enacted in the Constitutional Treaty, which makes provision for mutual solidarity among the Member States when one of them is attacked by terrorists.
Secondly, solidarity towards the victims of terrorism, which is another of the lines of action on which Europe will have to focus.
It is making every effort to encourage the Member States to take all of the measures required for an appropriate level of preparedness in the event of a bioterrorist attack, and hopes to be able to rely on the full support of this House in persuading all of the Member States to act more incisively, by investing greater resources, because the threat of a bioterrorist attack cannot and must not find us unprepared.
To conclude, Mr&#160;President, I believe that the most powerful weapon against terrorism is the united action of the institutions, the Commission, Parliament, the Council, and civil society.
We have to explain to our citizens that it is only by means of the united action of the institutions and society that there can be a genuinely European response to the challenge of terrorists, which is a challenge faced by us all. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
A number of countries want to set up a system to tackle the resources at the disposal of terrorists.
This initiative therefore deserves to be followed up and explored, because it would provide us with a more effective means of countering the use of such technology, particularly over the Internet.
We must not, however, deprive ourselves out of hand of the use of means that in certain circumstances – and 11&#160;May 2004 comes to mind once again here – could mean that human lives are spared, perhaps dozens, hundreds or even thousands of lives. &#160;&#160; That therefore means that the Council wishes to adhere to its proposal.
Accordingly, in accordance with Rule 52(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the text is referred back to the committee responsible with the observations of the President of the Council. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to inform you that we have withdrawn Amendment&#160;14 to recital Q. &#160;&#160; Mr President, recital C could be amended by the addition of a few simple words, as the first necessity is a clear definition of political terror and terrorism.
I support this report, especially in that it proposes common rules for the European gas and electricity market, in which the environment is an ever-present factor and the safety of the electricity supply is guaranteed in each of the Member States, regions and territories.
Incorporating the new Member States’ energy networks into trans-European networks will undoubtedly facilitate the cohesion process in the enlarged EU.
Nonetheless, when new infrastructure is built, maintained or enhanced, the environmental impact must be taken into account and procedures must be followed for the prior notification and consultation of the people affected, as laid down in Community and national legislation.
We accordingly support measures aimed at achieving this objective and therefore voted in favour of most of the rapporteur’s proposals.
It is interesting to see how Parliament deems the public sector capable of providing a lead in this area, and thus sets more ambitious goals for the sector.
Financial services make a very substantial contribution to the economy of Scotland, and re-insurance, whether directly or indirectly, affect Scottish-based enterprises and consumers.
I welcome this proposal, which makes progress towards a Europe-wide system of re-insurance provision and regulation, as well as providing an opportunity to tackle the situation in the USA, where vast amounts of capital are tied up because of their collateral requirement leading to extra costs currently being passed on to consumers.
Doubts remain as to including measures aimed at nature conservation and at the Natura 2000 network in the support programme for rural development, especially because there is no indication that doing so would prevent a reduction in the budget allotted to rural development.
It is known that we are opposed to cofinancing and the liberalisation of the farming market, given that this is at variance with a policy of promoting a form of rural development in which the populations are settled and in which family farming and small and medium-sized holdings are supported, a policy based on respect for the diverse character of the different Member States of the EU. &#160;&#160; We are completely opposed to this report and believe that, in terms of its individual parts, it is quite absurd.
Reasons in terms of distribution policy as to why the rich countries should help the poor countries in the EU may be adduced but, in that case, the poor countries should decide for themselves how the aid is used.
Amendment 29 refers to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
Successful agriculture and forestry industries in Scotland are essential contributors to the viability of our many rural communities.
EU support can play an important part in assisting rural businesses to meet the many competitive challenges which they face.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report regardless of the outcome of the debate on the Financial Perspective.
European policy on this issue should in fact be more rural than merely agricultural, comprising a series of measures and axes that form a coherent policy for the rural world.
The financing of these policies should form part of the debate on the Financial Perspective, in which we shall have the opportunity to assess the necessary amounts.
Forty-four per cent of this amount has been spent by the United States on military and police operations, for example.
A prime example of this spurious success is Iraq, which has become a breeding ground for terrorism in the wake of the war.
We wish to make it clear that we are, however, opposed to setting up a European register of convictions. &#160;&#160; The proposal presented by Sweden, Ireland, France and the United Kingdom on the retention of communications traffic data is aimed at improving cooperation in matters of criminal law.
We fully support that aim since it is important for the Member States and the Community to provide the crime prevention authorities with adequate tools for carrying out their work.
It is also necessary for them clearly to show the reasonableness of, and need for, legislation in this area, given the possible consequences for privacy it would entail. &#160;&#160; The June List is in favour of increased cooperation between the Member States in combating terrorism and other serious cross-border crime.
The fact that the variety of tax rates on tobacco in the EU Member States leads to problems involving cigarette smuggling is a known fact, mentioned in paragraphs 33 and 36.
It is now used by the Islamic revolutionary international, whose objective is the destruction of western civilisation and the establishment of Islamic republics throughout the world and particularly in Europe.
In fact, through mass Muslim immigration, our governments have imported the politico-religious civil war raging in North Africa and in the Middle East into Europe.
The electoral defeat of the Aznar government in Spain, which was considered to be hostile to Islamists, just days after the attack carried out by Moroccan immigrants on 11&#160;March 2004, formed part of this strategy.
The same applies to the assassination of the Dutch film maker Theo Van Gogh.
Until we have recognised the reality of this danger, Islamic terrorists will pursue their revolutionary jihad. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has today voted against setting up a European Public Prosecutor's Office as proposed by Mrs&#160;Díez Gonzáles in the report on the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the EU anti-terrorism Action Plan.
Hence the unacceptable agreements between the EU and the United States concerning the exchange of personal data, the unacceptable criminalisation of organisations fighting for the fundamental rights of a people, such as the right to sovereignty and independence and the unacceptable attacks on sovereign countries.
Consequently, our group voted against. &#160;&#160; .– The package of eight reports being presented today to the European Parliament details the so-called EU strategy for combating terrorism, in the aim of strengthening the policy to serve big business against the rising grass-roots movement and the peoples' resistance to imperialism.
The Oreja report endeavours to substantiate the need to escalate this policy and pass to the stage of preventive action against terrorism, in line with the American imperialist doctrine of preventive war.
At the same time, it uses 'Islamic terrorism' to neatly introduce an expanded definition of terrorist action and terrorist groups, by which it of course means the movements and organisations which are contesting or fighting to overturn the present regime.
This approach, in fact, has come under increasingly heavy criticism in the Member States since the establishment of the European arrest warrant, because the fairly harmless-sounding formula ‘mutual recognition’ turns out, on closer inspection, to be a very potent instrument.
All this will be incorporated into a 'European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection (EPCIP), while for the collection and exchange of any information which will contribute towards the early warning system for crises and emergencies, another spy network (ARGUS) will be created.
The rapporteur's endeavour to include risks from natural disasters and the references to respect for fundamental rights are an alibi for passing the new autocratic measures. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has today voted against setting up a European register of criminal sentences.
In recent years, events have led to a gradual awakening, which this debate shows has neither worn off nor lost its focus.
We know that there is a threat against our way of life, our society and the freedom we enjoy.
We are also aware that our greatest virtues – such as freedom, respect for the individual and solidarity – can lead to weaknesses in the fight against terrorism.
It is therefore essential that we strike a constant balance between what we must sacrifice and the elements that are indispensable to preserving our way of life.
If these blatant absences were amongst one particular group, there could perhaps be a good reason for it, but since it involves all the groups at the same time, it begs the question why.
When, on 15&#160;September, the decision was taken to appoint it, the temporary committee was given a mandate to determine Parliament’s negotiating position on the political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged European Union.
After working on this for seven months, we present to you today our proposal on the negotiating position of the European Parliament.
The fact that the temporary committee was able to adopt the report by a two-thirds majority in spite of all the opposing views that exist on specific points was due entirely to the close cooperation and mutual trust with which its members fulfilled their mandate.
For this reason I should like to thank you first of all, Mr&#160;President, in your capacity as chairman of the temporary committee, and to express my special thanks to the coordinators and the highly dedicated Members who were responsible for drafting the opinions of their respective committees.
I thank all of you sincerely for our close and fruitful cooperation over these past months.
We want a solution, but we are not prepared to sell our soul for it.
We have endorsed the parts of the Commission’s proposals that we considered to be right and proper, particularly with regard to the aims of more growth and employment as proclaimed in the Lisbon Strategy.
We want to see a binding obligation to simplify programmes as well as reform of the Financial Regulation, and we insist that the new legislation on multiannual programmes must preserve the rights of Parliament in full and as a matter of course in every single area of activity, including areas such as foreign policy.
A solution on the expenditure side will only be feasible if it is accompanied by short-term and long-term solutions on the Union’s own resources, corrective mechanisms designed to improve the internal balance of the budget.
At the end of the day, we arrived at figures that boil down to 1.18% in commitment appropriations and 1.07% in payment appropriations.
In accordance with the budgetary powers devolved on Parliament by the Treaty, the Luxembourg Presidency gives top priority to maintaining an open and unreserved dialogue with Parliament in this field.
I also want to express our gratitude for the work done by the Temporary Committee on Policy Challenges and Budgetary Means of the Union, which you chaired, Mr President.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
Your contribution to this complex and, to say the least, politically sensitive debate has been important in two respects.
Secondly, with this report and this resolution you set as it were the main parameters for the negotiations that will follow those in the Council and which, in the end, will be just as decisive for the Financial Perspectives as those that take place in the European Council next week.
Nothing should be allowed to distract us from the important task of giving the European Union the resources it needs to accomplish the tasks that lie before it in the years ahead.
The conclusion of an agreement in June is the best way of sending a positive signal and the only way of determining the scale of those resources early enough so that the various instruments and legislative programmes can be adopted and implemented at the right time.
Today more than ever, the Union must show that it is still fully able to take decisions, that it is still capable of reaching compromises in a matter as crucial for its smooth operation as the Financial Perspectives and, hence, the budgetary policy for the years ahead.
You are familiar with the negotiating framework method that was successfully used during the last negotiations under the German Presidency and which enabled agreement to be reached in Berlin.
That framework allowed us to whittle down the number of possible solutions and to reach a final agreement.
The most recent version of this negotiating framework dates from the end of last week and will be examined by the foreign affairs ministers at the conclave to be held next Sunday evening.
I will also comment on a number of points made in your report and in the motion for a resolution on the Financial Perspectives.
First of all, even before the debates in April’s General Affairs Council we clearly said that a number of cuts, which some find unfortunate and others inevitable, would be necessary in all fields if we were to strike a balance between highly divergent points of view as to the final overall level of expenditure.
The latest version of the negotiating framework includes for the first time figures for each heading.
No one can therefore doubt our determination to continue providing the resources necessary to move forward with the Union’s policies.
It is also true that the very weak growth in national budgets, which must not be overlooked, inevitably has consequences for the European budget.
Secondly, the debates in Council have been concerned chiefly with heading 1 B, that is cohesion policy.
We have not made this heading the adjustment variable of a minimalist budget package.
In fact, the Presidency agrees with Parliament that cohesion policy is the expression of the Union’s internal solidarity.
The Presidency is therefore doing all it can to keep cuts in this field to a minimum.
Overall, the expenditure for this heading in the latest version of the negotiating framework represents 0.37% of the European Union’s gross national income.
The Presidency has, however, proposed a number of changes to the mechanisms for allocating cohesion policy funds.
It has done so following discussions that generally revealed –&#160;and not without difficulty, I have to say&#160;– a desire to give priority to funding the least prosperous regions and Member States.
The Presidency has therefore adopted an approach based on the principle of solidarity, ensuring that resources are directed to those most in need.
To do that, a slightly higher percentage of the ‘cohesion’ heading’s funds had to be allocated to convergence and the ceilings adjusted so that funds go where they are needed most.
The Presidency is continuing to listen to them.
Thirdly, the Presidency is aware that the March European Council set ambitious targets for relaunching the Lisbon Strategy.
We are all committed to the objectives of competitiveness and employment.
We all want to develop research more in the Union.
It is true that the Presidency has cut the amounts proposed by the Commission, but the rate of growth by comparison with the present period remains considerable: 8% growth per year in real terms.
This objective is also a priority because it comes in response to the public’s concerns in the matter.
In our latest proposal, it receives an annual real-terms increase of 18% compared to 2006, a rise of nearly 200% over seven years.
Fourthly, the latest version of the negotiating framework goes into the question of resources in slightly more detail.
There is no doubt that the European Council’s success will depend on agreement being reached on both expenditure and resources.
In its quest for a solution, the Presidency has taken as its starting point the Fontainebleau conclusions of 1984 –&#160;I will not say Fontainebluff like Mr Juncker did.
I believe this is a fair proposal because we are all committed to the effort of solidarity that our Union’s enlargement represents.
Also in line with the Fontainebleau conclusions, which raise the question of budgetary imbalances for other countries, the Presidency has further proposed that specific measures be introduced for three countries, namely Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden, for the period 2007-2013.
These are the main elements of the latest proposal, which has been distributed to the Member States and will be examined in Luxembourg on Sunday.
It is the basis for an agreement in the Council.
We have opted to use the same method – that of defining our political project and our priority actions, then deciding on the resources and the appropriate budgetary instrument for these decisions to be put into practice.
As the Presidency representative, whom I greet, has just pointed out, the agreement on the Financial Perspectives is not an agreement between the Member States in the European Council.
It is an agreement between our three institutions, which share responsibility for it and each of which has a crucial part in drawing it up.
I believe the adoption of Parliament’s position today and the institutional trilogue next Wednesday are key steps along the way to reaching an agreement.
Even if there are a number of differences, our respective thinking has brought our two institutions to conclusions that are in reality very close.
I very much enjoyed discussing these issues with the Temporary Committee and I also appreciated the frequent contacts I had, even informally, with the President of Parliament.
I am pleased to find that these conclusions have met with a very broad consensus within the political and parliamentary groups.
Obviously, we share a common vision of the Union and of its financial resources as a means of action.
It is necessary because the absence of an agreement would delay the implementation of policies and deprive the citizens of the policies they are waiting for.
In other words, we must avoid prolonging a debate that reveals things that could divide us and concentrate on the things that bring us together.
We must also respond with action to those who think Europe could grind to a halt and fall into paralysis.
That is why I am saying that it is even more necessary now that we find a compromise in the next few weeks.
I am therefore convinced that this agreement is within our reach and that we must seize this opportunity to put Europe back on the rails.
I would like to say a few words on the latest proposals from the Luxembourg presidency.
I would like to begin by thanking the presidency for its energy and for the determination it has shown and brought to this matter.
On cohesion policy, for example, substantial savings are proposed, but the overall balance remains – a balance between the compelling imperative to commit new resources in the wake of enlargement and the need to respect the fact that the mission of the cohesion policy is to work across the whole Union.
However, the conditions needed to make it viable have not been met and the solution envisaged by the presidency has the merit of preventing this issue from spiralling into real crisis in the coming years.
In other areas, however, I must say that, compared with the Commission’s proposals, those put forward by the presidency are disappointing, and sometimes truly problematic.
If you look at the newer areas of policy – supporting competitiveness for growth and employment, making freedom security and justice more concrete, giving a new impetus to our external policies – these proposals will require the Union to make very real sacrifices.
Turning to other new policy areas, again the increase for freedom, security and justice looks generous on paper, with a proposal to double the 2006 levels.
As for our external policies, there is a strong consensus that Europe needs to be a more effective and vigorous actor on the world stage.
At a time when ministers are making a fresh commitment to increase official development aid by EUR 20 billion a year by 2010, frankly I find that troubling.
I do not believe that it is impossible to maintain the balance proposed by the Commission, to respect the legacy of the foundation policies while giving a new reality to new policies.
I know that you will agree with me that, if we succeed in reaching an agreement in the European Council next week and in concluding an interinstitutional agreement, we must face up to the consequences.
But at the same time we have to say no to a cut-price agreement that will mean a cut-down Europe and a cut-down project for the Europe of ambition and solidarity that we want.
In fact, I scarcely dare to say that, because the said amount is actually in line with our vision of a strong foreign policy for the European Union.
With this resolution, we are indicating that a solution must be found – and soon – to our unfair and unequal position.
Currently, too many European funds are still being channelled to the relatively rich regions, agricultural subsidies account for nearly 45% of the budget, and – as I am sure you are familiar with our position in this respect – we waste EUR 200 million a day on meetings in Strasbourg.
We must free up more funds for a safer and more social Europe, more cofinancing of agricultural policy by the old Member States and the abolition of agricultural export subsides with immediate effect.
There are currently insufficient funds available for many regions, educational exchanges, including for senior secondary vocational training, knowledge and employment, promotion funds for national plans to create new jobs in regions threatened with delocalisation, vital rural and nature management, border control, security in Europe and the fight against global poverty, which brings me to development cooperation.
If we made those choices, Europe would help make the world a safer place, and Europe could make the difference in terms of this social dimension, both in the EU and elsewhere.
Let me say, on behalf of the committee, that we cannot but thank the rapporteur for the quality of his work and for the manner in which the deliberations were conducted within the Temporary Committee.
I believe that one of the features of our resolution was its emphasis on the importance, in the framework of the WTO negotiations, of ensuring that the Union, through its budget, can render assistance to the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries in particular with a view to laying good foundations for these negotiations.
Now, as one of the speakers from my group – Mrs&#160;Buitenweg, our coordinator, will speak on behalf of the group later – I should like to say two things.
That is why – and we shall return to this point – we sought to accentuate a number of priorities, especially in the field of rural development and also in the domains of education and culture.
It maintains an appropriate level of resources for the Union, ensures that regions lagging behind in development will continue to enjoy the support of the Union, aims to penalise no one on the grounds of enlargement, and relies on cohesion but also on competitiveness, by prioritising research and technological innovation.
Those are the arguments presented by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which Mr&#160;Böge has taken into consideration in his report, and for which I thank him.
Aside from the improvements that can be made, however, it is important to consider the tangible and symbolic value of Parliament’s approval of this text.
This vote must resonate as a call to next week’s European Council, in order that it reaches an agreement that is as close as possible to our position.
That is why, as President&#160;Barroso states – and I value his statement – a revival is needed, and that, Mr&#160;President, is the first crucial decision for such a revival of the Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to say that the proposal on which we shall vote tomorrow proposes the internal redeployment of EUR&#160;200&#160;million from the trans-European energy networks to the Social Agenda, which is an essential factor in social inclusion, growth and competitiveness.
We now hope – and I repeat this request – that this desire to increase the appropriations does not fall on deaf ears in negotiations with the Council.
Speaking on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on this issue, however, and in light of Europe’s crucial role in questions of social justice and cohesion, I should like to express my concern at the way in which the Luxembourg Presidency has addressed questions relating to the statistical effect and should therefore like to … &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, our environment and our natural resources are scarce assets, and we want to pass them on to our children, if at all possible enlarging them in the process.
Our budgetary resources are also a scarce asset, and so we must make strenuous efforts to achieve our environmental goals as effectively and efficiently is possible.
I am therefore curious to discover whether the Council will be prepared, and will be bold enough, to increase the allocation of resources to the Lisbon Strategy, whether we shall see not only a doubling of the research budget but also signs of serious intent to implement it, efforts at making additional resources available as part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, and efforts in the fields of telecommunications, infrastructure and other areas to ensure that higher net incomes are credited to people’s accounts at the end of the month.
I thank the Council for setting a new standard in the European Union through the Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
I have time to make one simple point.
We share the rapporteur’s dilemma that we cannot provide the resources that will improve the conditions and the lifestyle of our citizen body.
That will mean that in some areas for which my committee is responsible, we have a diminution of consumer protection and other issues, where we are effectively giving less and asking more.
The proposed allocations in the framework of the new Financial Perspective enable average Community funding of 15% and, in addition, other innovative forms of financing have been formulated.
This will enable a new type of financing system to evolve, that is more effective than earlier systems and requires smaller contributions from Member States, for the first time in the history of TENs funding.
I warmly welcome the proposal made by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Böge, that 0.41% of gross national income be guaranteed for the cohesion policy, and also that the 4% cap should remain in force.
At the same time, though, I should like to say to all those Members who are calling for more money, that the financial pressure on some Member States is extremely heavy.
This is another area where we need to set reasonable limits.
We have an agreement from Brussels that prescribes the permitted level of growth in that budget.
In an extreme situation, it could mean that, since that agreement and the relevant cuts have to be borne by the 15 old Member States, a situation could arise in 2012 where farmers in the 15 old Member States receive 15% less premiums than the farmers in the new Member States.
Indeed, I am delighted to say that I fully endorse the line proposed by the Böge report on the important domain of freedom, security and justice, which, in both budgetary and structural terms, is recognised and enshrined as one of the EU’s fundamental priorities.
I am also pleased to see that the report proposes an appreciable increase in the relevant budgetary appropriations, which will serve to intensify the fight against organised crime and against terrorism, to improve the system of controls at the EU’s external borders and to ensure that the common immigration and asylum policies are pursued effectively.
Lastly&#160;–&#160;and this is a purely personal point, Mr&#160;President, which I make as a Member elected in Wallonia – I wish to say very clearly, in words addressed to the Prime Minister of the Walloon region, Jean-Claude Van Cauwenberghe, that I wholeheartedly support the call made in paragraph 58 of the report for protection of the legitimate interests of the regions that have been subject to the statistical effect of enlargement.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that the development in Europe of an area of language and cross-border public participation in political life is necessary and indispensable to European democracy.
The Temporary Committee and its rapporteur have taken on board the Committee’s concern, albeit without allocating funds to deal with it.
There is no point in presenting the public with priorities if you do not set aside money for them. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Committee on Women’s Rights regrets that the allocations proposed in the ‘Prodi package’ for social issues, equality and employment does not reflect any real increase over the previous financial framework, in spite of the fact that inequalities in the enlarged Europe have increased, that over 20&#160;million people are unemployed and that poverty and social exclusion now affects 70&#160;million people.
Suitable financing must therefore be made available for the ‘Progress’ programme, greater attention must be paid to the involvement of women in the various programmes and there must be a clear sharing of the actions relating to equality and anti-discrimination policies specifically geared towards promoting women’s rights and involvement, by setting up programmes such as ‘Equality between Women and Men 2013’ and new funding for the new European Gender Institute.
It recommended that the highest political authority in a Member State be required, every year, to approve the budget and certify expenditure, both beforehand and afterwards.
That is important, for it is in the Member States that the key expenses are incurred.
The strong message that emerges from this report is that the Union cannot be enlarged and enhanced without increasing its budget.
President Barroso has reminded us of that fact.
Another key requirement is solidarity: the scrupulous practice of solidarity with our new partners and solidarity throughout Europe with all those who are victims of industrial restructuring or of difficulties arising from geographical factors.
With or without the Constitutional Treaty, the Council and Parliament have forcibly expressed their common desire to see the economic union transform itself gradually into a genuine political union.
Our priorities in this context are the war on terrorism and serious crime and the new neighbourhood policy.
It is the wish of our Committee on Budgets to work on this objective in close liaison with the national parliaments.
Conscious of the difficulties experienced by some Member States, we had to produce a transitional Financial Perspective.
Our negotiations culminated in a very reasonable draft which still contains crucial growth elements.
Our duty, in fact, is to maximise the value added to national budgets by European intervention and to give Europe the means it requires to implement a project designed to bring progress in which all Member States can share.
In addition, all the institutions are called upon to intensify their efforts to achieve economy and efficiency.
My last point on the payment appropriations is that the two elements of the present proposal are inseparable, namely the 1.7% in payment appropriations and the 24.2&#160;billion for the flexibility instruments that are imperative if we are to develop the policies essential to growth and solidarity in the Union and the world.
The first concerns our disappointment at having been unable to finance Natura&#160;2000 entirely outside the budget for rural development, to which we attached such great importance.
We are undoubtedly struggling today to find a political programme for Europe.
We have objectives but not enough major projects and too few resources.
We must overcome national self-interest and rediscover a mature approach to the European political project.
There is nothing excessive about our demand, and that is why we are asking the Council to advance towards our position. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too must greatly commend and warmly thank our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Böge, for his thorough and proficient efforts, firstly in analysing the Commission’s proposal and then in formulating Parliament’s position on the financial perspectives.
My group supports this report.
This proposed basis for the negotiations with the Council is economically responsible.
It is, of course, precisely in these areas that we must invest significantly more of the EU’s budgetary means.
It is precisely from these areas, where common efforts really could strengthen the EU’s competitiveness, that they are withdrawing and are saving amounts that, seen in a larger context, are exceedingly modest.
Those of us in the ALDE Group are particularly pleased about the greater resources Parliament is setting aside for asylum and legal policy and for the common foreign policy.
The financial framework will have to take account of such sudden needs so that we do not go and cut back on aid to other poor countries.
Agricultural policy and support for poor regions in the old Member States will continue to account for a lot of the budget.
The EU budget still amounts to only approximately one per cent of gross national income, and it cannot be claimed that the amounts we are now debating are going to be the source of a budget crisis in any Member State.
We are obliged to find a solution so that the structural fund programmes designed to develop the economies of the new Member States can be got under way on 1&#160;January 2007.
The Group of the Greens has therefore tabled an alternative resolution, because we want to invest heavily in education, in poverty-reduction projects and in exchange programmes, also for students.
We want to spend the money more effectively, not on prestigious but inefficient national showpieces, such as the bridge over the Straits of Messina Street, but, for example, on the railway connection that links up Berlin with Warsaw, Vilnius, Riga and Tallinn or Vienna or Venice with Ljubljana, Bratislava, Prague and Budapest.
We would have liked to see less neoliberalism, less militarisation of the EU, and less harmonisation of laws.
Our group endorses the system of national contributions, and, above all, contributions based on GNP, and we have no sympathy for euro taxation.
Others pay almost EUR 5 billion to cover the United Kingdom’s contributions, and that country’s rebate is unjustified.
On the one side there is the 1% proposed in the letter drafted by six Member States, and, on the other, Member States worried about structural and cohesion funds are demanding that Union’s internal cohesion and convergence are safeguarded.
Many members of our group are furthermore worried about the impact EU enlargement will have on the budget.
Regarding agriculture, not everyone understands why we should be making room in the EU budget for other expenditure with joint financing of agricultural expenditure.
Mr&#160;Böge, I am sorry, but just as I was about to speak about the report’s good aspects, my time ran out. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, although I have every respect for the work carried out by Mr&#160;Böge, I have no choice but to say that the draft Financial Perspective is as worthless as the draft Constitutional Treaty, and deserves the same fate.
It provides for the use of inauspicious economic indicators and mechanisms, and, in particular, it restricts Member States’ contributions to around 1%.
Thirdly, it provides for modest increases in expenditure on the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
Firstly, economic problems will multiply rather than being solved, growth will not be boosted or competitiveness increased, and the development gap between Member States will widen instead of narrowing.
By doing so, we would merely confirm that the EU is run by bureaucrats and technocrats, and we would make no progress towards our goal of global competitiveness.
It is high time that a debate was held on the need for a new strategy for economic cooperation between the EU Member States. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the Financial Perspective the rapporteur has presented is close to the limits of what we can achieve at this point in time.
Not only has the Council been unable to reach a common position on the ceiling for commitments and payments, but a majority of voters in France and the Netherlands have rejected the Constitutional Treaty.
The moment of truth has therefore arrived for the incomprehensible Treaty, which fails to make a distinction between legislation and what are sometimes foolish hopes and dreams.
According to some of the old Member States, the EU is not doing enough to protect their jobs.
Certain Member States believe that the EU is over-regulating the economy and that it costs too much.
It is the proverbial Polish plumber, whose work is reliable and cheap, who is blamed for the failure of these various approaches.
We are thus debating the Financial Perspective without knowing whether the Council will reach an agreement or whether the largest Member States will take up even less flexible positions.
Firstly, we are opposed to any link between the level of payments and the reform of the own resources system, as the latter shows every sign of turning into an attempt to move even further away from a correlation of Member States’ payments with their revenue.
Secondly, we do not agree that agriculture should be cofinanced, as this would be the first step along the path towards renationalising agricultural policy.
Thirdly, it is our belief that it would be more reasonable to continue with current plans for a Financial Perspective covering the period from 2007 to 2013, as this tallies better with the multiannual programmes and the common agricultural policy.
In a large number of countries, the public is losing faith in the EU.
It is now the Council’s turn to adopt a more constructive stance. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, the report that we are discussing today addresses budgetary matters, but also – and I would like to emphasise this – political challenges.
The citizens of two Member States recently rejected the Constitution; other countries have postponed ratification.
We should now be taking this message on board, rather than making plans for the years to come.
What the citizens have said to us, loudly and clearly, is that they see the European Union completely differently to what some politicians dreamt up at the negotiating table.
It clearly expresses the fact that there cannot be more Europe for less money.
Accordingly, I ask whether we now even have the right to vote on a report that seeks to create a framework for the political and economic life of the European Union for several years to come, and my answer is a definite ‘no’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Commission’s proposal represented a commitment to enlargement and, at the same time, to its aspirations to turn our economy into a centre of growth and development, to overcome the technological gap with the United States, to increase our presence on the world stage and to confront the new challenges of terrorism and organised crime.
And this is despite the fact that the proposed distribution of the costs of enlargement is neither fair nor balanced, as demonstrated during the parliamentary debate, and that is why we have presented an amendment that I hope will be supported by a majority of the House tomorrow.
The financial perspectives that the report refers to unquestionably come within an adverse context, from political, economic and social points of view, in several Member States, and I can only lament the fact that this context has –– if you will allow me to use the expression –– poisoned the debate in committee from the outset, focusing this debate on trying to find an agreement on percentages between the Commission and the Council.
I believe that this is a false debate, from an economic point of view, because it is partial; and politically it is even more partial, because there is much more to the European Union than simply its budget.
The citizens want much more than a mere accounting exercise, because the Union should be a complete political project, a vision for its citizens and a future for twenty-five countries, which means more than merely being contributors.
I regret that the current political situation has not allowed Parliament to be more audacious, and this is the first time that Parliament’s proposal has aimed lower than the Commission’s proposal.
Nevertheless, having said that, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament will support the Böge report, since, in the majority of cases, its fundamental demands are taken up.
Firstly, it confirms the cohesion policy as an indispensable instrument for promoting territorial, economic and social cohesion and reducing the disparities between the regions of the Union — a policy of solidarity par excellence — and sees a proper funding of 0.41% of GDP as condition.
Thirdly, it insists on the need for a sufficient level of funding for external measures, with a view to making the Union a genuine global interlocutor.
And finally, it takes up the European Parliament's long-standing demand that the European Development Fund be integrated into the general budget.
The ball is in the Council’s court, and it must also bear in mind that the Socialist Group sees the report as a to guarantee sufficient resources for European policies for the Europe of twenty-five. &#160;&#160; Mr President, like many other Members, I should like to congratulate our honourable colleague Reimer Böge for the work that has been done and for his coordination of all this work.
On the expenditure side, we have managed to make proposals with the potential to curb expenditure in a number of areas, while on the resources side, as a previous speaker indicated – I think it was a Council representative – there will be increases ranging from about 8 to 15% in the final analysis, depending on the items, if I recall the figure that was quoted a short time ago.
Secondly, our positions are politically judicious too, on the one hand because the wishes expressed in this Financial Perspective are consistent with the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives and on the other hand because those of our fellow citizens who want to take the trouble to fathom out the content of this Financial Perspective will find in it, I believe, a manifestation of our will to enhance our regions while improving our ability to master the challenges of the future.
This is why I am pleased with the positions adopted by Parliament on the Böge report and why I call on the Commission and the Council to take heed of it.
In addition, it is my fervent wish that we should be listened to by the Council on 17 and 18 June and that our views receive a favourable hearing.
It is absolutely essential that the Council’s conclusion on this matter should not be seen as a patched-up decision but rather as a giant step forward towards our vision of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there can be few subjects closer to a Scotsman’s heart than money and, as the only Scots representative on the Temporary Committee on the Financial Perspectives, I have watched the often Kafkaesque debates with much interest – even when the real debate appears to be happening elsewhere.
However, we must send it to the Council with as strong a voice as possible.
I echo Mrs Krehl, my colleague on the Committee on Regional Development, when she says that regional policy is the most successful and most visible aspect of the Union’s work to the citizens in whose name we carry out all our activities.
The view of the Temporary Committee protects regional policy, and a strong European regional policy which must be promoted and protected.
It is incumbent upon us in this House to send a clear message to the ‘one per cent club’ today that we will not tolerate anything less than this compromise.
The reason why my group has tabled its own motion for a resolution is that we wanted to take a different political course in the period from 2007 to 2013.
There is no trace of that in this report.
It is full employment and sustainable economic development that should instead be the strategic goals, and that means allocating additional financial resources to innovation, social needs and education in particular.
A reduced contribution of 0.41% of Europe’s gross domestic product will not make a strong European regional policy happen.
On the contrary, the principle of subsidiarity, to which general homage is paid but which is never respected, requires a great many powers to be moved back from the EU institutions to the national parliaments.
The fact that this is the will of our peoples is evident from the referenda in France and the Netherlands and from what we know about public opinion in many other Member States.
Right now, we are seeing the end of an era in the EU’s history, the end of the era in which the political elite could move further ahead with its ambitions and plans without concerning itself with the will of the people.
In referenda on EU issues and sometimes in elections to the European Parliament, the opportunity arises for the peoples of Europe explicitly to adopt positions on the role the EU should play.
They then take the opportunity to say no to the shift in power.
There is no popular support for increased expenditure in an EU in which just over 70% of the budget goes on agricultural policy and the regional funds.
We register a reservation against the temporary committee’s proposal for the financial perspectives, amounting to 1.07% of gross domestic income in payment appropriations and 1.18% in commitments.
I would also like to make a brief observation on the trilogy of Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
The first two advocate keeping the commitment appropriations at the current level or slightly less (1.18% and 1.24%).
Reducing the interventions now instead of increasing them, as in my opinion is necessary ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Soviet Union had a total of 10 economic plans.
The European Union, for its part, has already had four budgetary plans: the Delors I and Delors II packages, the Santer plan and now the Barroso plan for the period from 2007 to 2013.
Our debate illustrates this: the 311-page Böge report is essentially all about whether 450 million Europeans will commit appropriations amounting to 1.24%, 1.06% or 1.7% of GDP, in other words whether we shall spend EUR&#160;1&#160;024 billion, 870&#160;billion or 825&#160;billion over the next seven years while the United States spends USD 20&#160;000 billion, some 20 times as much as the EU, over the same period.
To put it another way, our divergences of some EUR 60 billion between Juncker and Barroso or between Chirac and Böge are equivalent to 0.3% of the US public expenditure estimates for the same period.
When we have more than 20 million unemployed and 50 million people living in poverty, it is obvious, and has been common knowledge since the time of Pericles, that the big issue is that of large loans for major investments, such as investments in our railways.
If Brussels had actually been building railway stations, for example, instead of constitutional castles in the air, the European Union would not have been shunted into the sidings. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the way things stand it would be naïve to expect the new Financial Perspective to be based on the same principle as the EU’s previous spending plans.
There has also been a sharp increase in the number of farmers eligible for direct payments, even though such payments were not their idea.
Finally, our tasks have multiplied, which also has a measurable impact on the budget.
No&#160;one would dispute the fact that we should use public funds to promote research and development and a knowledge-based economy, but there is not yet any evidence that this is an effective way of spending money.
It follows that such funding should not be provided at the expense of regional and cohesion policy, which is both visible and of proven benefit, and which does not pit the old and the new cohesion countries against each other.
This House must make it abundantly clear tomorrow that we are expecting agreement to be reached at government level.
Different views are represented in this House, whether it be on agriculture, structural funds or whatever.
You have not pleased us, because, as you would expect, the main point of departure for the British Labour delegation is the implied reference to the United Kingdom rebate.
In this part of the debate I seem to be a voice in the wilderness, but I will carry on.
I refer to recital N, which I totally disagree with, and also to paragraph 8 and the fifth indent of paragraph&#160;51.
I have always made it clear in the temporary committee that own resources and the Financial Perspective are two separate issues, and never before has there been an attempt to link them under any of the previous IIAs.
I suppose it is still possible in theory that the Council will agree with Parliament's figures, or even go higher.
However, from the beginning when Members raised the issue of linking the Financial Perspective with a new system of own resources, I have used the phrase "get real" on at least three occasions.
I know that will not please colleagues in my Group, but we have to live in the real world and recognise the limits of our competencies.
As for the future, I wish you well when you start the conciliation negotiations. &#160;&#160; Thank you Mr Wynn.
It serves as a common ground for Parliament and the Commission, and highlights the distance between these two institutions and the Council, which at present is incapable of transcending national interests and finding the answer that Europe needs.
The European project is currently at crisis point.
The only response to this crisis has to be the good news that Europe is capable of looking to the future with hope, and that Europe itself can be the source of such hope.
This is an important point, and I believe that it is equally important for the Financial Perspective to be a driving force behind European integration, rather than a factor widening the gap between the new and the old Member States, or between Eastern and Western Europe.
The countries that have rejoined Europe are particularly vulnerable, and this is something people need to understand. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to thank Mr Böge for his high-quality work in the Committee.
Although we have already heard praise from many quarters for the balance of the work he has done, we – and I – take the view that the failure to put sufficient emphasis on some areas is precisely the problem.
Let us, together, be bold in trying to get the message across to people, not only to their minds, but also to their hearts. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Böge’s report setting out Parliament’s position on the Community’s financial framework for 2007-2013 is in fact less favourable than the Commission’s proposal, which was in itself woefully inadequate in terms of financial resources and was out of step with the actual needs of the enlarged Union.
Both proposals, at their core, are tantamount to surrendering to the strategy pursued by the wealthy countries, such as Germany, which seeks to reduce the Community budget as far as possible.
These proposals include complete compensation for regions, such as the Algarve, affected by the so-called statistical effect, a specific programme targeted at Portugal and Greece to adjust their economies in light of the impact of the enlargement, an end to the pegging of the cohesion fund to the Stability and Growth Pact, the rejection of renationalising the costs of cofinancing the common agricultural policy, the promotion of a fairer model for distributing agricultural aid, the guarantee of a seven-year financial framework and the creation of a Community programme for the textiles and clothing sector, especially for the least-favoured regions that depend on that sector.
At that time, we agreed to humiliating conditions attached to accession, in which our highly efficient farming sector was granted only a quarter of the subsidies compared with our competitors in the old European Union countries, as well as conditions conflicting with the founding principles of the European Union – protection regulations preventing the free employment of our citizens in many of the old countries of the Union.
We also find that services may not be directly provided in the old Member States, and we recently discovered how tricky it will be for businesses that logically wish to relocate – still within the EU – to our country with its highly qualified and industrious workforce, which works 40 hours per week rather than 35 and which does not demand exorbitant wages.
We want to believe at least in the basic promises that led our citizens to say ‘yes’ in the accession referendum.
The promises were about financial resources, which, they said, would provide funds for the development of the Czech Republic as they had done before in Portugal, Ireland and elsewhere.
The common agricultural policy, for example, pointlessly fritters away more than 40% of the budget, but is well known to be a politically untouchable entity, which Parliament, absurdly, is not even allowed to discuss.
If we really wish to create a sustainable budget, one that does not lead to further disillusion ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as a convinced pro-European, but equally as an Italian Member who is also here to represent and defend the interests of her nation, I find the Juncker proposal, setting the paltry sum of 1.05% of GDP for the contributions of the Member States to the European budget, to be unacceptable.
There are too many cuts and too many contradictions.
I greatly appreciate it and I do not believe that anyone else would have done a better job and produced such an excellent and impartial report.
Tomorrow Parliament must send a strong and positive message to the citizens of Europe.
We need to have as large a majority as possible back this report.
If Parliament stands united on this issue, we will also be sending a strong message to the Council.
Agricultural policy has inevitably got to the stage where agricultural subsidies to the old 15 Member States will be reduced with future enlargements.
We want to ensure that enlargement is successfully completed, to lay the foundations for rapid growth and job creation and to achieve the new goals established during the debates held while the European Constitution was being drafted.
The Financial Perspective must meet these expectations.
The first, advocated by the Commission, provides for an ambitious but balanced increase in expenditure, which would keep pace with growing expectations.
The second, backed by a group of Member States, consists in cuts to the budget as a percentage of GDP.
If I may, I should like to take this opportunity to thank Mr&#160;Böge for the effort he has put into drafting this report.
Ladies and gentlemen, the unsuccessful referenda in France and the Netherlands mean Europe now needs clear confirmation that integration is and will continue to be our common future.
The reason I call for a compromise is that the European Union is in urgent need of a clear vision of the future and the financial capacity to take action.
I am in favour of cofinancing agricultural expenses for the reasons mentioned in the report.
We must have the same rules across Europe, but Mr Böge’s proposals are acceptable.
Finally, there is one more point I should like to make about common foreign and security policy.
I take the view that those expenses should also fall completely within Parliament’s competence.
When introducing this report, he pointed out that the Budget leaves certain areas of policy and the economy chronically underfunded.
It is for this reason that the report proposes the introduction of cofinancing in the first pillar.
While our group wishes to support this cofinancing, our aim in doing so is to achieve better funding for matters covered by the second pillar.
In the second pillar, rural development must be funded on an equal basis, that is to say with 75% from the European Union, and the proper economic development of rural areas must be guaranteed.
Far from this being a financial act of mercy, the overall health of our economic development is dependent on rural areas not being left behind. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the voice of the citizens for a more social and more democratic Europe is growing, unfortunately the Council and the Junker Presidency are going backwards, with six countries holding a gun to the others' head.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left rejects the philosophy of an agreement 'at any cost' which also permeates the Böge report, because it results in less Europe and greater inequalities and has as its victims the weaker countries and the weaker social groups.
The European United Left considers the Commission proposal to be a totally inadequate starting point for financing the objectives of cohesion and the social agenda following enlargement.
The report also recognises, and rightly so, that education and training should be prioritised in the funding proposed and I believe that the allocation of resources to the development of human capital is vital for long-term investment in the Union’s future.
We should be under no illusion that in time co-financing of the CAP will inevitably lead to its renationalisation. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in practice Parliament’s line on the EU budget shows no evidence of solidarity with the Commission, and this is a great shame.
We spend a lot of time in this House talking about a strong EU that would compete with the USA or Asia, yet a strong EU with a small budget is inconceivable, not to say absurd.
If the richest EU Member States insist on imposing their opinion on everyone else, the end result will be that the vision of a common Europe, based on solidarity, is shattered.
It is better for financial perspectives to be agreed over a seven-year period, as has been the case to date, rather than a five-year period. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what do our discussions about the next financial framework boil down to?
What our rapporteur deserves a great deal of credit for is the way he has gone into the details, taking a look at the tasks – including those connected with the Budget – that we in the EU will have to get to grips with in the 21st century, at where more resources are needed –&#160;in foreign and security policy – and at where the Commission’s proposals are excessive and we can make cutbacks.
A European Union that defines itself solely in terms of the redistribution of as much money as possible is not the European Union I want to see; there are other tasks that we have to perform together.
If we require the Member States to consolidate their budgets in order to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact, we cannot at the same time go around dispensing largesse the length and breadth of Europe.
If you say – as Mrs Trüpel, being a Green, does – that 70 cents for culture cannot be excessive if you set it against the expenditure on the Millennium Goals and all the other goals, then your payments end up amounting to 1.19%.
It is there in this report.
It must therefore be acceptable to ask at European level whether the burden of these tasks is equally shared.
We all have to go out and show the people of Europe, in all our countries, that we are ready and willing to make the necessary funding available.
We want to ensure together that Europe changes for the better. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Rainer Böge’s report before us concerns the future financing of the EU.
At the same time I wish to thank all the committee members for their constructive cooperation.
The intention is to increase structural policy financing and rural development funds, to guarantee that there is balanced development.
The needs of the new Member States are understood and accepted, but the report quite rightly points out that the more susceptible regions of the old Member States should not be made to pay for the new cohesion policy.
To improve employment levels and boost economic growth, the purpose within the financial frameworks is to invest particularly in research and development, and education and training.
I would like to make a strong appeal to the Member States to lose no time in adopting the new financial perspective and the interinstitutional Agreement as proposed by Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to concentrate on regional policy, which is a particular concern of mine.
The European Union’s instrument of solidarity is economic and social cohesion.
As we know, the Council is at present proposing a mere 0.37% as a basis for negotiation.
I wish again to stress that I do not endorse our group’s proposal, as I do not believe that we need to impose an five-year limit, which is, in terms of regional policy, unacceptable under the present difficult conditions. &#160;&#160; The European Union does not have at its disposal the ideal mechanisms for either generating or allocating resources.
Despite the huge efforts it made, which I appreciate, the temporary committee could not, at this stage, have achieved any more than it did, Mr&#160;Böge, and there is a chance that Parliament will vote in favour of this compromise.
Whereas Parliament considers that resources should be set at 1.08% of gross national product, the Council considers, in contrast, that the figure should be between 1.03% and 1.05% of gross domestic product.
This shows that the future will be less about indices than about the correct mechanisms for distributing resources, and many pitfalls still lie in wait on the path to final agreement in the area of the financial perspective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will put aside the thoughts I had gathered for today in order to consider a number of interventions and again explore what they are about.
Our proposal is a compromise.
I call upon the Heads of State or Government, along with their ministers of finance, to read it through for themselves and to see whether it might make it possible to broker an agreement in the Council without our weakening the European Union.
I am addressing the Members of the Council when I say that the proposal they have already put on the table amounts to 40% less for the EU’s competitiveness, 10% less for cohesion and growth and employment, 6% less for rural development and agriculture, 50% less for internal policies and 40% less for the European Union’s role as a global partner.
You may thereby get agreement in the Council, but you will not get any agreement from us, not least for the second reason, which is that you are making cuts across the board.
Your proposal envisages EUR&#160;871 billion.
If the figure goes below EUR&#160;931 billion, there will not be any! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to acknowledge Mr Böge’s determination to carry out this exercise in financial engineering and balancing on the first occasion in the history of the financial perspectives that the European Parliament has voluntarily set its direct ambitions even lower than the Commission’s proposal, which was already minimal.
Nevertheless, I am not pleased that Parliament should be demonstrating a minimalist tendency which began with the last Agenda 2000 and which has not helped to increase confidence amongst the European citizens.
We regret the pressure represented by the initial proposal of six Member States, some of which were perfectly understandable given the current situation, but others are guilty of not sufficiently explaining the added value of each euro spent and the high economic and commercial return resulting from the Union's development.
We regret that the 1% has replaced the ideas by percentage, but, on the other hand, it has also relaunched the debate on the urgency of fundamentally reviewing the system of own resources.
The European Parliament defended it in Agenda 2000 and we do not understand why, when the Presidency-in-Office of the Council is applying it, Parliament is not now doing so.
We also call on the rapporteur to accept Amendment 1, which combats the discrimination that would result from applying the competition and excellence policy in an exclusive manner. &#160;&#160; The report presented to the Parliament by Mr Böge is an excellent example of the common work of an enlarged [European Union] of 25 Member States.
Finding a decision concerning the Community funds that would be acceptable and apprehensible for all was a very complicated task; however, this successful decision proves that the enlarged European Union is viable and has a long-term vision of economic development.
We have to understand that we need to develop a common European vision prior to commencing any financial planning, and this common European vision is being missed by both the citizens and the representatives of the society.
That is what I miss in the work of the European Commission, and I do regret that today’s speech by the Commission President has been a complaint of a very tired person to Parliament about the problems of negotiations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I fear that this very important debate on the Financial Perspective will breed frustration, because the Council is proposing something of a shoestring budget which does not match Europe’s ambitions.
To come to the Financial Perspective, it continues to give a great deal of cause for concern and is unacceptable in some points.
Following the events of these past few weeks, there is a need to be able to respond to public expectations and not to let a chasm open up between political promises and the action that would serve to achieve the objectives of competitiveness, full employment, research and training and, above all, solidarity.
Allow me to explain my concern with regard to the Council.
The Member States must not be timid about Europe.
What can I say about the proposals regarding the common agricultural policy, the CAP, which is poised to become a national agricultural policy or NAP, an appropriate name, with the Council closing its eyes to the needs of farmers as renationalisation looms and a political symbol of Europe is set to disappear?
The same concern surrounds regional policy, which our regions need so much, and our major trans-European projects.
We shall also be very vigilant with regard to the funding of Natura&#160;2000.
If we are to finance our priorities, there will surely be a need to review the rules governing the calculation of the Union’s resources and to renegotiate the benefits granted during the last century, particularly the British rebate.
Mr&#160;Barroso has told us that he can count on the European Parliament.
Together, we shall perhaps succeed in persuading the Council that it really must make an effort to ensure that the EU budget is not the shoestring budget I dread. &#160;&#160; As a member delegated by one of the new Member States onto the temporary committee dealing with the financial perspectives of the enlarged European Union, I would first of all like to emphasise how much it means to us that the European Parliament’s position on this issue, so vital in terms of the new Member States’ process of catching up with the European Union, is no longer being formulated without our involvement, but with our concrete and substantive collaboration.
Because of this sense of responsibility, we tried to avoid pushing too hard on issues that cannot realistically be dealt with, given the current situation of the Union, although they are important in terms of our catching up and thus for the progress of the European Union as a whole.
Instead, we concentrated on those details, and in some cases matters of a technical nature, that are vitally important for our catching up process in practical terms, but also in terms of their theoretical and political significance.
But over the next few years the British rebate will increase markedly in size and the poorest Member States will have to contribute towards it.
The CAP discriminates against farmers in developing nations and penalises our own consumers.
Our Union needs more solidarity and therefore more of its own resources in order to overthrow the niggardly accounting system based on net balances and rebates.
One such solution, that is often mentioned, is national top-ups, which, incidentally, has already been tried out on us, the new Member States.
It is in the interests of Hungary and of all the cohesion countries, that 0.41% of EU income is channelled into supporting convergence.
With this, we will be able to develop research and a knowledge-based society and promote road-network construction and job creation.
The question for the moment is not so much how to reach agreement on concrete figures with the Council, but whether there will be a Council position at all, in other words, whether the European Council will reach agreement with itself?
Reaching a common position geared towards the interests of the new Europe of 450 million citizens will be a good thing for every Member State.
Fellow Members of this House, let us support the Böge report, let there be at least one piece of solid ground in this situation in which collapse seems imminent and let the citizens of Europe see which institution represents their real interests. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, members of the Council and the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the referendum has had such a powerful impact on the political debate and on people’s psychology that some commentators have been forced to even wonder whether there is still a need for the European institutions now that the remarkable peace mission carried out by Europe is complete.
In order for Europe to be useful, unified and competitive, however, and therefore perceived as necessary by the people, it must be able to develop its policies and be endowed with the resources to do so.
Therein lies the significance of everything that this House’s rapporteur, Reiner Böge, has been able to instil in a text that I consider satisfactory and pragmatic, without being defeatist.
My fellow Members, I call on us to defend, with a broad-based and united vote, the right and duty of the Union to exist and to carry out its work. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, Members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to point out that one of the fundamental merits of the work of the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Böge, is that of regarding the process of European integration as an ongoing political dynamic, with high-profile objectives and ambitions.
I would above all, therefore, like to give credit to Mr&#160;Böge for having, with great wisdom and balance, produced a sensitive report that required complex analysis and has resulted in effective political proposals.
The resolution points out the priorities for the revival of Europe: the untouchable status of the cohesion policy, the importance of promoting the competitiveness and development of the Union, the need for an increasingly effective common policy in the area of justice and home affairs, the need to give impetus to external relations and to the dynamics of integration of the single market, in addition to enhancing the concept of flexibility in order to make the European financial framework agile and effective.
We cannot hide the fact, however, that from the way in which it is outlined in Mr&#160;Böge’s report, the European Parliament’s position differs significantly from the working document presented by the Luxembourg Presidency on 2 June.
We fear that the European Council may approve a compromise with extremely disappointing political and financial content.
In the knowledge that we will be faced with a compromise, which will be the outcome of painful mediation, we will never let our readiness to find balanced solutions dwindle.
It must be clear, however, that the Council will not be able to call on our sense of responsibility, in order to involve the European Parliament in an exercise that has the effect of killing off the integration process. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU has just celebrated the 60th anniversary of a shared peace at a time when two of the founding countries have just expressed their doubts at the ballot box.
It is our duty to reach this stage, in the interests of equality between our countries and our citizens.
The contribution recommended by our rapporteur for territorial and social cohesion is necessary, though not adequate: specifically, it lacks increased funding for transport networks.
The second event is the future: our old industrial continent is in the process of changing and we must level out the territorial, economic and cultural inequalities.
It will only be possible to create new products and new services to combine productivity and solidarity if research and innovation are adequately funded.
Cohesion policy has been a very positive instrument and has had considerable success in fostering this sense of belonging.
Consequently, the weakening of cohesion policy has led to financial difficulties or to some projects being postponed.
Reducing the financial resources of cohesion policy is tantamount to dealing a hammer blow to the European spirit.
On the subject of the cohesion policy, it would appear to make perfect sense to discuss an aspect that, being fresh in our minds, should help to formulate a cohesion policy that matches our new reality.
I therefore address my last words to the Council.
I shall finish by congratulating Mr Böge on the excellent report that he has submitted to this House. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is a matter of political credibility for the European Union, following enlargement, to safeguard the financial resources for the implementation of development, employment, regional convergence and social cohesion policies.
This need appears to be all the more urgent following the recent results for the European Constitution in France and the Netherlands.
I truly wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Böge, for his work, but I believe that it is disappointing for 1.07% in payment appropriations, compared with the 1.14% initially proposed by the European Commission, to be proposed as the position of the European Parliament.
This limited financial framework lays down from the outset a European political programme of low expectations, which certainly does not respond to the new and major requirements of our times and of the peoples of Europe.
Certainly the new countries need to be supported but, at the same time, the regions in the old cohesion countries, which are suffering the consequences of enlargement due to the statistical effect, must be given fundamental support.
If European integration is to reacquire momentum and win the trust of the citizens, it cannot be encaged in administrative and accounting perceptions.
Unfortunately, the proposal by the Luxembourg Presidency moves in this restricted direction at a huge cost for the cohesion policies.
In the European Council next week, the Heads of State or Government will have to rise to the occasion and take bold decisions about European priority policies and the need to finance them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think that, at a time when, following the referenda, Europe is indeed in crisis, it is essential that the institutions should prove that the European Union continues, and indeed, can continue, to function.
This is where a decision about the multi-annual plan will be an important credibility test, and hence the great significance of us in this House being able to take a stand tomorrow, which we are in a position to do probably thanks to the remarkable work of our rapporteur, in respect of which we have given the necessary means to be able to realise the enlargement but also – and we owe this again to the rapporteur’s proposals – make the new policy in the Union possible.
We hope that, under Luxembourg leadership and with the help of the Commission, the Council will then work out a proposal which forms a real basis of negotiation with Parliament in order to reach agreement.
The European Development Fund has been removed from the framework of the Financial Perspective and a reserve of 24 billion euros has been created.
As a result, the amount of expenditure proposed by the European Parliament is apparently smaller – 1.07% of European Union gross national income – but, if the European Development Fund and the reserve are included, we would be close to the European Commission’s proposal.
In the European Parliament’s proposal the main decrease in expenditure relates to sub-programme 1.a, ‘Competitiveness for growth and employment’, and also to administrative expenditure by the EU institutions, channelling extra resources towards the European Parliament’s traditional priorities.
The European Parliament has acknowledged that the amount of expenditure allocated in the Commission’s proposal to sub-programme 1.b, ‘Cohesion for growth and employment’, is justified.
The total amount of resources channelled into the EU funds is 0.41% of European Union GNI.
The first relates to the Commission’s proposal to set a ceiling of 4% of a Member State’s GNI on the amount of resources which may be received from European Union funds.
The European Parliament considers that the setting of a 4% ceiling is based on the experience of the past and that a flexible approach to the setting of ceilings is now needed.
Secondly, the European Parliament considers that there should be a differentiation in the level of cofinancing from EU funds, depending on a Member State’s level of economic development.
On the other hand, though, EU structural policy must be equipped with sufficient resources to make it possible, in future, for adequate support to be offered to less developed regions and to those with particular socio-economic problems, including those in the old EU Member States.
The allocation proposed in the Commission’s draft regulations for cohesion funds for the individual targets is acceptable only if there is an increase of 1.14% in total resources.
There must be no across-the-board cuts, that is to say cuts made without affecting the relative allocations, for these would unilaterally impose burdens on the convergence regions in the EU’s old Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like, as others have done, to congratulate the rapporteur Mr Böge on his work.
He has done an excellent job in very difficult circumstances.
As one speaker has said, we are all equal but some are more equal than others.
But the idea in paragraph 51, indent 5 might give a sensible idea of how to proceed, bringing in national parliaments to make our own resources system more transparent.
As we heard very clearly from our rapporteur, we need one that will be in our interests and the interests of our electorate and that is what we hope will come out of the Council in a few days’ time. &#160;&#160; I thank the rapporteur for his enormous hard work and, in particular, for supporting my amendment on the democracy programme, which now forms the last paragraph of the report.
The rapporteur proposes less than the Commission, but more than the Council has proposed this afternoon.
The referenda that have been held in recent days, as many speakers have mentioned, have reminded us of the need to focus on the real needs of our citizens, and they want us to grow more quickly.
Our citizens have also reminded us that they believe in a social model in which both cohesion and the efficiency of the market are priorities.
As an additional and final point, I would like to express my strong opposition to the beginning of co-funding of the agricultural policy, since that will also mean breaking the social cohesion rules on which the model we believe in has been based. &#160;&#160; Madam President, what we are concerned with here is prioritising EU expenditure.
In setting priorities, we must also be able to distinguish between the common, and most important, tasks of the EU and the important tasks of the Member States.
We have not reached the point of doing that in this work on the financial perspectives.
If we want Europe to become the world’s most competitive knowledge-based economy, it does not make sense for us to give priority to the rich Member States’ contributions at the expense of developing a common infrastructure in our weakest regions.
Nor is it sensible of us to give priority to marketing efforts in the developing countries on behalf of European agriculture, at the same time as reducing our most important investments in Europe’s knowledge and research community.
If, in your negotiations, you – the Council and the Commission – do not manage to ensure that we are able to achieve the objective of devoting 3% of the European economy to aiding knowledge and research so that European research can take the lead in Europe’s knowledge-based society, then you will fail in setting one of the most important priorities needed by Europe.
The rapporteur has done a fantastic job, involving clear priorities.
On the question of the United Kingdom rebate, I believe that it is justified and certainly I am going to look carefully at the position taken up by our Prime Minister, Mr Blair, at the European Council next week.
My one plea, without going back over old ground, is that I hope that the issue of the United Kingdom rebate does not find itself becoming part of a separate set of negotiations about the future of Europe following the results of the referenda in France and the Netherlands this week.
The Presidency completely agrees with this; it has put forward proposals in this vein.
I think that, in any case, Europe needs to have priorities and must have a clearer idea of where it wants to go.
The Presidency, or rather Luxembourg, could have signed the Commission’s proposals very happily.
We therefore need to look again for this compromise, to see how and to what extent we can reduce the figures proposed without, in future, depriving the Community budget of its impact, its influence and its ability to guide policy.
Nevertheless, I myself have noted that there is real growth under all the headings.
In some cases, this growth may be inadequate, but in others it is quite significant and takes account of the priorities that you as MEPs regard as particularly important.
The Presidency proposes more.
I agree with the idea that Europe needs to find new momentum.
I think that we must not under any circumstances tolerate these claims, which damage not only the effectiveness of Europe, but also, ultimately, our entire project.
But we must strike the right balance in this approach based on solidarity, and that is what we have tried to do; we need to distinguish between rich regions, poor regions in rich countries, and poor regions in poor countries, because they are not quite the same thing.
That is why I think it is important to find the right balance that will enable everyone to find his or her way.
Perhaps we should define better the added value of European policies, work more to improve the quality of Community expenditure, concentrate our expenditure more, improve coordination between Community expenditure, European expenditure and national expenditure.
We also know that the Community budget cannot, on its own, achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
We need better coordination between Community expenditure, national expenditure and contributions, private funding.
I cannot promise you that the Presidency will reach a compromise.
It will be worse in the sense that we will not be able to define programmes.
I am struck by how similar your priorities are to those of the Commission, in particular boosting economic growth, job creation, solidarity with the poorest people, those who most need true solidarity in our approach, and also meeting commitments we have made, in other words bringing our commitments, and our finances, into line with our political priorities.
In this debate, you have demonstrated the usefulness of the European budget; you have shown that, very often, spending at European level enables savings at national level and that there is an added value to such spending.
Spending at European level very often makes it possible to realise projects that would not otherwise have been achieved.
On these two points, the priorities and the usefulness of the budgetary instrument for our Europe, for Europe’s ambitions and for solidarity within Europe, there is therefore considerable convergence between the points of view of the Commission and of the European Parliament.
We want an ambitious agreement, an ambition for Europe, a Europe that is not a Europe of rebates, and, at the same time, we want a Europe that shows solidarity.
He said that he, personally, could certainly subscribe to the Commission’s initial proposal.
It is true that contradictions and different points of view have been expressed in this House, but I think that our vote tomorrow will nevertheless express Parliament’s will.
As we all agreed during these negotiations, they are not limited to just the Member States&#160;–&#160;even though their role is decisive, the negotiations are taking place between the Council, Parliament and the Commission.
As a result, what we now ask the Presidency&#160;–&#160;whilst congratulating it on its determination and whilst telling it that we want a compromise and that we are here to help it reach that compromise&#160;–&#160;is to reach a compromise that is closer to what Parliament will, I hope, vote for tomorrow, and also closer to the Commission’s proposal than to that from certain Member States, even though we recognise that they do have real difficulties that we must not underestimate.
That is my appeal.
It is also my appeal to all MEPs so that we can look forward to this final phase&#160;–&#160;I hope it is the final one&#160;–&#160;of negotiations in a spirit of compromise and so that the message that comes out of the next European Council is again a positive one.
There is one point on which I am in complete agreement with the Council Presidency, and that is that no headway will be made, either in the Council or in Parliament, if there are those who see their role as being to speak up for special interests, while others see themselves as responsible for brokering compromises.
It is for that reason that what this House needs to do tomorrow is to set out a quite definite negotiating position, and to do so by as large a majority as possible.
Whilst I recognise that the problem lies perhaps in the Council itself rather than in the Presidency, the Council must not get the idea that everything will be sorted out once it reaches a compromise.
It is far more important that we should first define our negotiating position, that the Council should set out its position in relation to that, and that Parliament should eventually have to agree.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0246/2005), and we will be taking a number of questions to the Commission.
But sometimes it is the linguistic preferences or knowledge of Commissioners themselves which may require the use of a particular language.
All these practices are followed with due respect for the equality of languages as official and working languages.
On the other hand, if the work of its services goes beyond internal business and involves contacts with outsiders, the Commission is committed to making use of as many official languages as possible, taking into account the limitations on available translation resources under the guidelines set out in its Document 638/6.
Secondly, the Commission actively promotes multilingualism within the European Union, as indicated in its communication 'Promoting language learning and linguistic diversity: an Action Plan 2004-2006'.
The fact is, we believe that considering only three languages to be official EU languages is inadequate, partly because six languages are spoken by at least 9% of the European population.
The situation for languages from the time of enlargement shows that the Union is functioning – it did not collapse.
Speaking as Commissioner for Education, I must say that all our mobility programmes, our activities in the field of education, culture and vocational training strongly promote a language component.
I am sure that, with that awareness and positive philosophy or policy we are on the right track. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, it strikes me that the problematic thing about the advertisements for jobs with the Commission is that they often specify a mother tongue.
Next month we want to introduce the communication on the new language competence indicator, which is now an important part of the growing question of competence and recognition of qualifications.
We have agreed with Member States to promote language learning as early as possible.
In a broader context, the 1 + 2 formula is no longer a luxury, but a necessity for the younger generation and for all citizens, who need to learn not only their mother tongue, but also two other European languages, one of which should preferably be that of a neighbour.
That is the policy and basic philosophy supported by the Commission and, if this policy is promoted properly in Member States, multilingualism and language competence will increase markedly in the future European Union.
That being said, the Commission hopes that both parties can reach a workable solution, which would undoubtedly contribute towards further increasing cooperation and strengthening relations between the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his reply, which was clear; the point of my question was simply that the common European foreign and defence policy needs to be safeguarded to the maximum possible degree in the bio-strategic country of Cyprus and the reply was perfectly clear. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, very briefly, the Commissioner's reply about this being nothing to do with the Commission is unsatisfactory.
The European Commission approves the financing of the common European foreign and defence policy and participates in the work of shaping the European Union's foreign policy.
In the sphere of the second pillar, the European Commission really does not have direct power with regard to the Common Foreign and Security Policy, but supports the endeavours of Member States not only on joint policy but also on definitive common action with regard to relations with other organisations and with particular regard to security policies.
I am therefore convinced that, in the hands of the Member States supported by the Union as a whole or, as the case may be, the Commission, this topic can gradually be brought to a successful conclusion.
However, tests have shown that technical problems occur when a chip is introduced in each visa sticker.
The call for tender which the Member States may publish for the national part of the VIS will be based to a large extent on this interface control document.
The Commission is confident that all Member States will be ready to connect their national systems to the central part of the VIS as explained until end 2006.
As far as consular posts are concerned a roll-out plan for the entire project development period becoming operational at the end of 2006 and further development between 2007-2013 should be prepared in cooperation with Member States.
Finally, the Commission considers that the Commission’s proposal to amend Council Regulation 1683 respects all data protection issues.
Without doubt, the two requirements that we have to take into consideration are, firstly, the reliability of the technical criteria that have been adopted by the Australian Parliament, and, secondly, interoperability and thus the ability to make these data actually function for a system that has to extend to the 25 Member States.
As indicated in the Commission communication of 2001 on State aid, however, the role of private operators must not be neglected, as they contribute to ensuring pluralism, to enriching the political and cultural debate and to broadening the choice of programmes.
However, the Commission must ensure that the rules of the Treaty are complied with, particularly those on State aid as interpreted in the communication of 2001.
Public funding must therefore only be used to achieve the public-service mission and must not exceed what is necessary in this regard: that is the rule of proportionality.
It is therefore not up to the Commission to lay down other rules that would limit the Member States’ room for manoeuvre in this eminently cultural field. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for that response.
Usually, there are no problems and the Member States are given the green light fairly rapidly.
In the television sector, independent production companies, which are often SMEs, are supported in the production of audio-visual work for television.
The Media programmes recognise the precarious existence of independent production companies in a fragmented European market, companies whose economic livelihood often depends on a single project; and a number of the mechanisms therefore target these important creative activities.
The television distribution funding mechanism was one of the Media Plus Programme actions which was examined in the mid-term evaluation which took place last year.
This evaluation confirmed the key role played by the various actions for independent producers, as well as that of measures such as eye-to-eye audio-visual and the development action encompassing new talent, single projects and State funding.
Finally, the second interim evaluation, as requested by the European Parliament in the context of the prolongation of the Media programmes, will be launched very shortly, and will be submitted to Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, thank you for your reply which, I admit, was comprehensive and covered many issues.
In order for independent producers to be in a position to retain their producer's rights and in order to be able to secure more easily for them the safeguarding of intellectual property rights and thereby strengthen the possibility of attracting investment from private investors, do you agree that the Commission and the Council should take the relevant steps?
That is why the conditions for access to subsidies under the MEDIA programme are very clear: it is only open to independent producers.
After seven years at the very most, all the systems will be reviewed so that we can provide even better support to independent producers.
Public service radio and television are of great importance for democratic, social and cultural needs in society.
Thanks to the minimal coordination provisions it contains, this text strengthens the competitiveness of the European audiovisual media industry.
As in the case of the question that I have just answered, I would remind you that it is very important for Member States to be responsible for defining the purpose of their public services and to determine how those services have to be funded so that they can fulfil their mission, as this field still comes under the subsidiarity principle in accordance with the Commission communication of 2001 on State aid and with the rules of the Treaty, including the Amsterdam protocol.
However, we also state in that communication&#160;–&#160;this is also an important point&#160;–&#160;that the public service may include services that are not programmes in the traditional sense of the word: for example, online information services, insofar, of course, as these services aim to meet the same democratic, social and cultural needs as programmes as such. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would thank Commissioner Reding for her answer.
I really do not know, however, whether I should feel reassured or disturbed.
I really want to call upon the Commission to state more clearly than it did just now that public service really is fully able to shape its own activities without this being regarded as restricting the internal market.
There is great anxiety because our people are very much in favour of public service.
It is therefore the Member States that define, firstly, the purpose and obligations of their public services and, secondly, the way in which these obligations are funded, by licence fees or by advertising.
The Commission simply checks whether what the Member States have laid down is carried out in practice.
The pact aims to improve the education, training, mobility, vocational integration and social inclusion of young Europeans, whilst facilitating the reconciliation of family life and working life.
The Commission has responded to the pact without delay.
The communication identifies actions at European level to support the pact: the use of the Social Inclusion Strategy to improve the situation of vulnerable young people; European Social Fund support for projects targeting young people in areas of employment, training and social inclusion; the development of a specific tool for recognition of youth work with a view to including a ‘Youthpass’ in Europass next year; and proposals for a European qualifications framework, hopefully also next year.
The communication invites Member States to consult young people in developing measures for the pact and following it up.
It announces the consultation that the Commission will undertake on youth policy, culminating in the Youth at the end of December 2005, to involve Members of the European Parliament and the Parliament itself, as well as young people, Commissioners and other policy makers. &#160;&#160; – I thank the Commissioner for his reply, which was complete and very informative.
The following day we held the first online press conference with youth in Brussels, but also in Member States.
It was well organised and it is also a contribution to better communication, and to the engagement of young people as we call for future EU policies.
So the most important thing, I would say, is the financially unmeasurable part, which means a more coherent, more supported approach towards youth as a part of Lisbon, as a part of integrated guidelines in all the different areas, supported also by financial resources.
This objective is pursued by the Culture 2000 Framework Programme in support of cultural cooperation in Europe.
Implemented in order to encourage artistic and cultural cooperation in Europe and to drive forward the creation of a common cultural area, the Culture 2000 programme supports projects jointly produced and financed by at least three operators from at least three countries taking part in the programme.
However, this programme is not specifically aimed at developing cross-border cultural cooperation.
Secondly, while the programme does not establish specific measures for the conservation of the common cultural heritage of border regions, it nevertheless contributes to disseminating know-how and promoting good practices in the field of conservation and preservation of this common cultural heritage.
Moreover, the European Union also actively supports the conservation of Europe’s cultural heritage through the structural funds and the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technical Development.
Thirdly, in the Interreg IIIA programmes, including those mentioned by Mr Posselt, culture is mainly promoted by supporting networks for creating or intensifying cross-border cultural contacts.
Under the entrepreneurship measures, many programmes also cover the promotion of cultural tourism.
According to the guidance given in the Commission Communication of 28 April 2000, renovation and development of historic urban centres using a joint cross-border strategy, can also be promoted.
This strategy, of course, excludes housing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are two things I would like to mention, one of them being the reference to historic urban centres.
That was very interesting, and I also wish to thank the Commissioner for the excellent reply.
One possible venue for this might be the capital of your own country, Commissioner, the only capital city to be situated on a border.
Thank you for the idea and for all you are doing in this area of promoting cross-border cooperation and togetherness. &#160;&#160; Questions 39 to 44 will be answered in writing.
During a debate on 25 January 2005, Prof.
The 7th Framework Programme allocates more funding to nuclear energy (fission and fusion) than to renewable energy.
It has taken a leading role in the implementation of the Kyoto agreement and is equally instrumental in addressing the global debate on post-2012.
However, it must be stressed that the EU cannot solve the world’s energy and climate problems alone, a fact recognised in the conclusions of the Council of 22-23 March, also referred to by the honourable Member, which set out the objectives for all the developed countries and not just the EU.
The objective of reducing greenhouse emissions must be set in the context of sharply increasing global energy demand, which is predicted to rise by 60% by 2030, and increasing concerns over energy dependency in the geopolitically unstable regions of the world.
No single technology can provide the solution; a broad technology portfolio approach is required, embracing actions with a relatively short term perspective and others with a much longer term view.
To achieve the goal of a more sustainable energy system, energy research has to strike a balance between increasing the efficiency, affordability, acceptability and security of existing technologies and sources of energy, whilst simultaneously aiming at a longer-term paradigm shift in the way Europe generates and consumes energy.
In this equation, nuclear technologies will continue to play a role, along with the increased uptake of renewable energy sources and other clean energy technologies such as hydrogen and fuel cells and CO2 capture and storage.
Nuclear fusion currently contributes 16% of the EU's energy supply and is, along with renewables, a major source of carbon-free electricity.
Moreover, key objectives of the Community research programme on fusion concern the safe management of nuclear waste, the operational safety of nuclear installations and radiation protection, which covers a wider field than energy, such as medical uses.
Fusion has the potential to make a major contribution to the realisation of the sustainable and secure energy supply for the EU within a few decades.
It is recalled that in the conclusions of the March meeting, the European Council also invited the Commission to forge ahead with ITER, to start its construction before the end of 2005.
This is a good illustration of the growth potential that can be harnessed through the combination of Community research effort and policy measures, such as feed-in tariff schemes and green certificates.
The Commission will therefore continue to provide a substantial level of support to the research and deployment efforts of renewable based energy systems.
While I think that the European Union has for far too long opted one-sidedly for nuclear energy and, above all, for nuclear fission, I am not certain whether I heard the Commissioner correctly when he said that 16% of our electricity supply would, in future, be derived from nuclear fusion.
Sustainability and ensuring that we do all in our power to be environmentally friendly should be part of our philosophy.
Very few questions have been answered. &#160;&#160; Firstly, Mr Mitchell, I did not give you the floor; secondly, I had already indicated that we were running late, and thirdly, I would suggest that we should all spare a thought for our friends in the interpreters’ cabins, who have now worked long in excess of their usual hours.
This project strongly contributed to the development of new diagnostic tools to identify these genetic defects early after birth.
Achieving these objectives will facilitate the development of therapies for alleviating hearing impairment.
Other projects of a lower scale on hearing impairment and rehabilitation were also funded.
More specifically, detection techniques of hearing impairment, notably in the new-born and children, were supported in the context of the successive Ahead projects coordinated by Professor Grandori, in Milan, based on the technique of otoacoustic emissions.
Although research topics have not yet been identified, research into deafness and hearing impairment in children could mature along these lines. &#160;&#160; That was an excellent, very helpful reply.
Because this has been a difficult report, I want to thank at the very outset the shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues in the Chamber today for all their help in meeting the aims of this report.
It has been difficult and there are one or two issues still to be sorted out before the vote tomorrow.
We know that the protection of minorities was part of the Copenhagen criteria for enlargement of the European Union, but equally we realise that there was no real standard for minority rights in the European Union and in Community policy.
But in the enlarged European Union we also have to understand that we are talking about traditional minorities: linguistic minorities and national minorities.
It is also important to understand the changing nature of the European Union.
A recent debate in this House on the Roma identified that minority as probably the largest in the European Union and deserving of a rapid and deep response to the problems that they face.
First, the response to the Green Paper and Article 13.
Here in my report I find that the implementation and transposition of the existing directives which the Commission brought forward and this Parliament voted through, and the strengthening of legislation in relation to discrimination on the grounds of disability, age, religion, sexual orientation, race and ethnic origin, was far too slow.
But it needs the political will of the Member States in order to implement it.
We have to understand that there are many people in the European Union who want to protect their diversity, but they feel they are a minority and therefore vulnerable.
The promotion of fundamental rights and the fight against discrimination and for equal opportunities are a priority for the European Commission.
These directives extended the broad range of Community regulations in the area of discrimination on the basis of gender.
Awareness-raising is a priority for the Commission, and we therefore propose that the European Union designate 2007 as being the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
This European Year will be an important opportunity to mobilise all participants and to emphasise the benefits of European diversity for the economy as well as for society as a whole.
This announcement describes a framework strategy for future activities in this area.
This strategy goes beyond merely protecting the rights of individuals, and explores how the European Union can promote positive measures to support the integration of social groups facing considerable structural obstacles to their participation in society.
The Commission will also assess the potential impact and workability of new measures to complement existing European Union regulations in the fight against discrimination.
This study will take account of the relative benefits of legislative and non-legislative measures and the costs and benefits of various alternative policies, as well as the need to take care not to open a discussion on the existing legal framework, which might weaken the current level of protection against discrimination.
The European Union is now trying to resolve these issues, for example, by using its anti-discrimination legislation and the targeted use of the European Union’s financial resources.
A joint effort of international organisations, Member States’ national bodies, and representatives of citizens’ groups is needed.
As the President, Mr Barroso, has confirmed, a group of Commissioners dealing with fundamental rights, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities will consider this question at a future meeting. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I should like to congratulate my honourable friend Mr Moraes for his bold approach to the question of discrimination.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would be happy if we were in a position today to speak about development, cooperation, solidarity, tolerance and a rational and fair distribution of wealth generated.
Unfortunately, however, all this looks more like a theoretical approach to reality which, in its every expression, worryingly unfolds more and more forms of discrimination.
It is precisely economic liberalisation which is the most basic cause of the exacerbation of economic inequalities, which promotes individual activity to the detriment of social collectiveness.
We need to fight for a social Europe which places people first, a Europe of participation which invests in education, full employment, quality of life and the elimination of poverty.
However, when the two issues are linked together, numerous problems arise, and so the report has ended up rather large; the issue is complex and so the report examines a whole raft of new connections.
The report deals first of all with protection of minorities.
Since minority rights are an integral part of human rights and the latter are among the incontrovertible fundamental values of the European region, there is no doubt that the issue on the agenda is unquestionably important and inevitable.
While the Copenhagen criteria clearly set out EU expectations with regard to protection of minorities, Member States have not so far been obliged to adjust their policy on minorities accordingly.
In the new Member States, which have been bringing their policy on minorities into line with Europe prior to accession, there is a danger that a rise in nationalism might not only bring this process to a halt, but also lead to an increase in anti-minority incidents.
The specific problems that arose in the course of preparing the report – problems relating to the varied situation of different minorities on the one hand and the universal nature of human rights on the other – were a clear indication that we need a policy like this within the Union.
Indeed, we all know that the rights to speak and write freely, to elect one’s representatives and to live as one wishes can have no real meaning for people who, in their daily lives, do not have the necessary material means to ensure their dignity.
The report by my colleague, Mr&#160;Moraes, points out the importance of fundamental rights and, in particular, of the protection of minorities in an enlarged Europe.
We note that, unfortunately, Article&#160;13, which gives the Community the mission of combating all forms of discrimination, and European legislation in this field, have been implemented poorly or partially by the Member States.
It is therefore, above all, absolutely necessary to ensure better transposition, better application of European legislation in this field.
We also think that effectively combating discrimination goes hand in hand with a common, coherent European integration policy.
Finally, poverty and social exclusion are a form of discrimination and the eradication of poverty must form part of the policy of combating discrimination.
The European Union has to respect minority rights, but we should not forget that ultimately each citizen is also an individual and each citizen is therefore entitled to the same rights; secondly, that the European Union should respect the cultural identity of minorities and, at the same time, we must ensure that does not prevent full integration and participation in the community.
With regard to the issue of non-discrimination, unfortunately after so many years it is still necessary to have this debate.
Fundamental rights are for all citizens, not just for some groups.
If we are serious about the Charter of Fundamental Rights, that says we should not discriminate on grounds of sexual orientation, then we cannot possibly vote for the amendment tomorrow that seeks to delete a paragraph on homophobia and obstacles to freedom of movement.
This report, as adopted by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, is an excellent text showing a real ability to develop the Union as an area in which fundamental rights, including minority rights, are protected effectively.
Nevertheless this report has been supported by little more than half of the Members of the Committee.
I imagine that at this very time all Members have been subject to real lobbying by EU citizens, even asking us to scrap some of the paragraphs in the Moraes report.
Some subject-matters are taboo: there is news today, for instance, that even in Catania, a civilised Italian city, an Italian citizen was refused a driving licence on the grounds of being homosexual.
The way in which it is suggested in paragraph 22 that in the field of education, discrimination would be on grounds of religion, ignores the meaning of religious conviction for the identity of education.
Finally, I am grateful to Mrs in 't Veld for Amendment 4.
Protecting fundamental rights, which was a key element in the integration of Europe, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, declared in Nice in 2000, confirm the importance, not to mention the necessity, of a coherent integration policy aimed at protecting minorities and encouraging the integration of non-EU citizens, particularly in the light of the recent enlargement.
I believe, however, that the social inclusion of immigrants, and the protection of minorities and cultural diversity – priority objectives of the European Constitution – do not always have to be achieved at any price in every case.
The time allocated to me has unfortunately come to an end, but I would have liked to expand on such issues in this House, as I believe is necessary. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Moraes on his excellent report, and if the nationalists and homophobes attack you, Mr&#160;Moraes, do not be afraid, because it will be proof that you have produced a very good report.
We must draw up legal and political standards for the protection of national minorities and for a monitoring system as Mrs&#160;Bauer proposed in her opinion.
Secondly, we must distinguish between the traditional national minorities of Mr&#160;Moraes’s report and the migrant minorities of the Council of Europe.
I have proposed referring to migrant minorities as new minorities.
Fundamental rights are indivisible, but the obligations of the State are different: for traditional minorities, we need to guarantee that their identity and language are protected; for migrant minorities, we need to guarantee that they are integrated into society.
Thirdly, we in the European Union must clarify the relationship between non-discrimination and positive discrimination.
We cannot guarantee the rights of national minorities without preferential treatment or positive discrimination.
Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this excellent report in full. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the new Member States have brought new linguistic and national minorities with them into the EU, which is ever more characterised by linguistic diversity.
Already, 46 million inhabitants of the EU now have mother tongues other than their countries’ main languages.
The fact that the number of MEPs per country decreases when the EU receives new Member States is a problem.
Then, linguistic and national minorities are the first to disappear from the European Parliament.
Four minorities disappeared as a result of the last enlargement, and the process will continue if measures are not taken.
Given the way in which the enlargements are now planned, just about all minorities will disappear from Parliament.
The issue could be solved, for example, by the EU establishing 30 parliamentary seats earmarked for national linguistic minorities.
In most cases, we are concerned with population groups that have recognised status in their countries and that are neither anonymous nor invisible.
We need to be combating the growing movements we see which are based on hatred and exclusion, something that, for many of us, is absolutely unacceptable within this European Union.
I would hope that the incoming presidency makes that a priority, so that at least the legislation is in place when we come to celebrate the Year of Equalities in 2007. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a gap between the EU rhetoric on equality, inclusion and diversity, and the reality of experience across the Member States.
The report correctly identifies this area as one meriting immediate action.
I congratulate Mr Moraes and I welcome the report’s assertion that equal treatment is a basic right and not a privilege, that human rights are indivisible and cannot be bought or sold.
The challenge for all of us is to put in place mechanisms, and crucially resources, to realise these goals. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, while acknowledging the importance of the goals of the report by Claude Moraes and noting the personal sense of responsibility displayed by the rapporteur in seeking out the truth, at the same time it must be said that the process of creating the report has once again clearly demonstrated that, in creating a common minorities and anti-discrimination policy in Europe, it is absolutely vital and essential to take into account the special, unique, historical and political situation of each country; the importance for a country of preserving its identity and its jurisdiction in solving issues regarding minorities and discrimination against them must be respected.
This is absurd, since the attitude towards minorities in Latvia is no less accommodating than attitudes in other countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account these repeated open, unjustified and uninterrupted attacks on the two states who have suffered most of all from the totalitarian Soviet regime, I call upon you to understand and acknowledge, at last, that in different cases a solution to problems must be sought which is not standard but that a minorities policy must be created which is individually tailored to the circumstances of each particular state.
The result is a reduction in the report’s objectivity and quality.
Latvia has been very fair, and the legislature has, for its part, given special rights to the persons who were settled there during the occupation period – rights to naturalise at any time.
Not just the number of citizens but also their loyalty, their respect for the country, its language and its values ought to be the criteria for gaining citizenship and consolidating society.
From this point of view, the European Union needs to be the strict judge and controller of the conduct of all candidate countries and it needs to do this without the selective sensibilities and calculations which are often dictated by interests and short-term political expediencies.
The issue of minorities should not be used to promote national interests or undermine other countries.
The Moraes report endeavours to give a definition of ethnic minority by referring to the definition of the Council of Europe.
I believe, however, that what needs to be added to his report, especially in paragraph 7 on the definition, is a clear reference to the international treaties which regulate questions of religious and ethnic minorities.
An international treaty is a sound basis on which to protect the rights of minorities and a secure framework for overturning policies which exploit them for other purposes.
With this comment, I should like to congratulate Mr Moraes on the excellent report which he has presented to us and I believe that we should vote in favour of it tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that how we treat our minorities reflects the strength of our democracy.
It has to be put into effect because it is essential to human progress in our Member States and, I would argue, to the very survival of the European Union.
However, this report does not seek to be censorious; it attempts to approach these problems in a spirit of solidarity and indeed of seeking help for all states to comply with European values.
I would urge all Members and political groups of this Parliament to support this.
I should like to conclude by saying that I am convinced that the new strategy adopted by the Commission will provide a suitable framework for future anti-discrimination measures.
It is obvious that what is needed is a combination of all available tools, including legislation, and that it is absolutely necessary to focus in particular on those groups that have unfortunately not yet had the opportunity to participate fully in society and the economy.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
They are also the result of inequalities that are present across the world, the result of poverty, the curse of too many regions in the world.
In the context of national elections, in some Member States, immigration is a recurring theme in electoral campaigns.
Some countries decide to seal their borders and adopt tough measures, while others regularise thousands of illegal immigrants.
The European Union seems to be divided in relation to the issue of immigration.
As a consequence, any national measure has significant direct repercussions on the other Member States.
The solution to many of the problems they face must be both European and national.
I also wanted to take a balanced approach: the Member States must not base their policies either entirely on security considerations or entirely on a spirit of liberalism.
Finally, I wanted a comprehensive approach to increase consistency and effectiveness.
Firstly, the need for an active policy of co-development to combat the basic causes of immigration.
Secondly, combating illegal immigration by means of stricter controls at our external borders, dismantling human trafficking networks, harsher penalties, very harsh, for businesses that use clandestine workers.
Finally, policy on the integration of immigrants: admission and integration policies are inseparable.
The Member States must implement more proactive policies.
For their part, immigrants must understand and respect the fundamental values of the host country: learning the language, civic education courses and better integration into the labour market are some of the important elements of this.
Neither welcoming all comers nor setting as an objective the myth of zero immigration is a realistic or particularly responsible position.
The subject of immigration is too sensitive, sometimes too tragic, to continue to make it the subject of political sparring matches.
One vision must prevail when we discuss it: where are people in all this?
Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament must give a strong and unified signal to the Council and to the citizens of Europe so that rapid progress can be made in immigration and integration policies.
I believe that it makes an excellent contribution to a European immigration policy, highlighting, on the one hand, the added value of Europe, and, on the other, the importance of close cooperation with third countries.
I will express a number of opinions on the main points in the report.
Firstly, with regard to establishing an early warning system, the Commission strongly supports this idea and is drafting a proposal.
We are examining proposals for common rules for the dissemination of best practice, with a view to tackling the trafficking in human beings more effectively, by possibly aiming for greater involvement from third countries and promoting closer cooperation between the third countries themselves and the Member States in order to protect maritime borders.
The Hague Programme expressly stipulates the need for European common rules on this matter.
When discussing fundamental rights, I do not believe that any distinction can be made between a legal immigrant and an illegal immigrant: the fundamental right of respect for human dignity applies indiscriminately to legal and illegal immigrants alike.
We now come to the important subject of legal migration for economic reasons: we are collecting a large number of proposals on the Green Paper issued by the Commission in January, with which you are all familiar.
A public hearing will take place on 14 June, and on the basis of the outcome of that extensive consultation we will prepare a proposal before the end of the year.
The importance of economic migration is widely recognised: it can be said that, thanks to a genuine European economic migration policy, immigration can represent an opportunity for Europe and its labour market.
As the rapporteur also points out, economic migration is without doubt an extremely sensitive subject for the Member States.
I note with great satisfaction, however, that the European public debate on the Green Paper has in some way eased the reluctance of the Member States, which, in certain cases, absolutely refused in principle to tackle the issue of legal migration at European level, and which have now realised that only a policy of this type can bring about real added value.
In my opinion, integration is an essential part of the European immigration policy.
In the second half of 2005, I intend to present a communication on establishing a coherent European framework of integration policies.
The first is the need to obtain reliable data and statistics on immigration.
The Commission intends to present a proposal for a regulation laying down the criteria for obtaining statistical data that in many cases we do not currently have, making it extremely difficult to outline a European policy.
The protection of immigrants will have to be aimed primarily at the innocent victims of the traffic in human beings, organised by criminal gangs: I am referring in particular to women and children.
We want to send a clear signal in favour of a fair and equitable European immigration policy.
A common European immigration policy is necessary so that people arriving in Europe can be welcomed in a dignified and organised manner.
This policy must take account of the needs and rights of the immigrants.
That is why a common immigration policy cannot be envisaged without an active integration policy.
Above all, legal immigration must make it possible to respond to the needs of everybody, primarily the immigrants.
That is why we must take into account our relations with third countries.
It would be unacceptable for us to reject our responsibilities with regard to managing migratory flows in third countries.
Clauses on migratory flows and readmission agreements are not necessarily included in all the association agreements that the European Union concludes.
I would like to add, finally, that immigration policy and integration policy cannot be separated.
The result is illegal immigration, human trafficking and abuse of asylum policies.
We need to accept that Europe has become an immigration continent.
At the same time we need integration policies.
Immigrants should be fully included in the community.
There are, however, countries in the European Union that have never known one-off mass regularisations of this kind, my own country, the Federal Republic of Germany, being one of them.
As you can see, there is still much to be done in Europe.
This report calls on Member States to give their neighbours and other EU Member States early warning, and we have tabled an amendment to paragraph 29 to make explicit reference to the need for information on the introduction of restrictive immigration measures to be exchanged and notified within the European Union, in other words not just such measures as mass regularisations, but also the opposite: if restrictive action is taken, that information should be shared within Europe.
Finally, the report expresses concern about Member States’ tendency to establish ‘preliminary reception centres’ in non-EU states; there has been frequent enough reference in the press to Libya as an example of a country’s inability to guarantee minimal standards for refugees.
Turning to legal migration, the report stresses that, although this remains a matter for the nation states, these are less and less able to resolve the numerous problems without help from elsewhere.
These have to do not only with the management of migration, but also with immigrants’ right to integration, and so we have also brought in an amendment to paragraph 51, calling, among other things, for local voting rights and participation.
The first point is to increase the legal immigration channels; the second point calls on us to act on the causes of immigration and not to respond with repression, criminalisation and rejection; the third point demonstrates that the economic approach may not be the only one in the area of immigration.
I believe that the Gaubert report must contribute to the drafting of the Green Paper.
I believe, moreover, that it is necessary to try to adopt the proposals put forward by our group, in particular with regard to residence permits for job seekers, the rejection of the Community priority – because there can be no difference in job seeking between citizens of the European Union and citizens of third countries – and, finally, the right to actively participate in political life and in elections.
But it is internal EU immigration that really demonstrates the futility of their promises.
Over 130 000 people from Eastern European countries entered the UK between May and December 2004: ten times the maximum official predictions.
Spain’s selfish and irresponsible act demonstrates how Britain can have no independent immigration policy inside the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, immigration, integration and asylum are still taboo subjects, particularly in the old EU Member States.
I therefore welcome this debate as an opportunity to hold a frank exchange of views, even though I disagree with a great deal of what is said in the report, and even though I fear that this debate will be anything but frank.
This is entirely hypocritical.
There is in fact no such thing as legal immigration, because in practice people can only immigrate illegally.
As few as 5&#160;000 of the 50&#160;000&#160;Poles working in Brussels live and work here legally.
The figures are even more striking in the case of non-EU citizens.
It annoys me to hear people declaring war on human traffickers, when we are in fact faced with a more pressing problem in the shape of&#160;the people arriving in Europe who are grateful to these traffickers for their services, which unfortunately come at a price.
We should call a spade a spade, and adopt common European legislation on immigration.
We should state in plain terms that for the most part there is no such thing as immigration into Europe, and that we believe Christians integrate better than Muslims.
We should state the facts and our opinion of them quite openly, and wherever possible, we should provide assistance to the world’s poorer peoples in their own countries, within the framework of intergovernmental programmes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Gaubert on his excellent work dealing with a very complex and at the same time very necessary report.
It is complex because there are many factors to this problem which, unfortunately, has become an everyday problem –– illegal immigration –– and also combating it by means of legal mechanisms which respond to the legitimate hopes and desires of those who are seeking a better future in our territory.
It is necessary because the Union –– and this Parliament in particular –– must once and for all provide a clear response, a clear demonstration of our common commitment to resolve a problem which has been knocking on our door for too long without an appropriate response.
The promotion of legal migratory channels, the application of measures in favour of the proper integration of immigrants and, above all, the fight against illegal migratory flows, are the three axes upon which I believe the Union’s strategy must be based.
Firstly, we must promote legal immigration by means of responsible policies, and I would stress the word responsible, since the most recent experience, in my country at least, is a clear demonstration of the opposite; ordered immigration within an open society, with stable and flexible mechanisms to provide lasting solutions.
Secondly, we must work for the full integration of immigrants, since that is the only way we can prevent rootlessness, marginalisation and the conflicts which, to an increasing degree and with greater frequency, are arising within our societies; an integration which has a dual meaning –– for the society of destination and for the migrants themselves –– but which, in any event, must be an integral and fundamental part of our common policy.
Finally, we must combat illegal immigration, clandestine immigration and mafias, that is to say human suffering in general, since, as I said before, we cannot forget that we are talking about people.
For these reasons, I would appeal for a common political commitment which leaves behind all demagoguery and all unilateral and irresponsible measures which, simply for the sake of an easy vote and without considering the consequences, could jeopardise the progress we have made and are continuing to make in this field. &#160;&#160; I do not think that I am a coward, but it was an honour and a pleasure for me to participate in the drafting of the report and I am pleased that it has won the support both of the Commission and of most of those who have spoken.
The question of immigration and integration of migrants has been the subject of decisions within the European institutions for a long time.
Tampere and The Hague gave particular prominence to this set of issues and to compliance with the Geneva Convention, and in late 2003 this Parliament approved an epoch-making resolution in the report by Claude Moraes.
The present draft – thanks to the sensitivity demonstrated by the rapporteur on this issue – treats illegal migration primarily as a security policy issue and analyses the dual nature of the determining factors of legal migration.
People arriving from third countries need to be able to live a decent human life.
It is to the credit of the rapporteur that he analyses economic migration not in a laboratory context, imprisoned by papers, but on the basis of the current economic and social situation here and now.
Europe is ageing and additional sources of labour are declining; at the same time, meanwhile, unemployment and inactivity are high.
The lessons from the French and Dutch referenda also indicate that the citizens of the old Member States perceive the presence of workers from the new Member States in their labour markets as a threat and xenophobia accompanied the debate from start to finish.
Data from the German research institute DIW show a dynamic increase in the development of economies that did not impose restrictions on labour supply reinforcements arriving from the new Member States.
It thus makes economic sense, too, if workers from the new Members States are no longer kept in quarantine for six years and if they are not put in some intermediate, second place between workers from the old Member States and those from third countries.
It is to the credit of the rapporteur that the report avoids the temptation of opting for easy solutions, such as introducing a quota system or a sectoral basis for accepting immigrants.
For all these reasons, as someone who has been involved in working on the report, I wholeheartedly commend the report to you for adoption. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, how can we fail to respect these men and women who, fleeing poverty or dictatorship or war, are prepared to sacrifice everything to reach the European Union in the legitimate hope of a better life?
Zero immigration and fortress Europe are dangerous and reprehensible utopias.
In this matter, the EU must play its role, including by providing funding.
Good immigration policy involves a real will to support the sustainable development of emerging countries and not cynically viewing them as a democratic source of cheap labour for the needs of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the report being debated is a complex text which realistically assesses the problems and which lays down the guidelines for a common European immigration policy, both for legal and illegal immigration, and proposes not only repressive but also preventive measures for preventing and repressing immigration, such as supporting countries so that poverty can be combated, education can be reinforced and future immigrants can be helped in their own country.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality helped, with the opinion drafted by my honourable friend, Mrs Kratsa, to ensure that the question of the links between illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, and the need for access to legal and social protection for the victims is emphasised in the report.
The report, irrespective of whether immigration is legal or illegal, calls for the combating of discrimination and the application of programmes to integrate equal rights for men and women.
The report also stresses the need for the Member States to address the continuation in the host country of inhumane traditions which even result in crimes of honour against women.
It is linked to the combating of racism and xenophobia, to asylum policy, to the integration of immigrants, to the possibility of their obtaining legal employment in host countries and, above all, to trafficking in human beings.
The European Commission has been addressing this issue since 1986, with the new Single European Act, and has issued a large number of directives and decisions.
I repeat, therefore, what I said this morning.
First of all, it calls on the European Commission to strengthen solidarity and common policies at the level of information and the coordination of all structures involved in migration-flow management.
However, more important is the highlighting in the report of the need for cooperation with countries of origin and through a proper information system with a view to identifying employment opportunities for persons wishing to migrate.
Of course, this cooperation must not reach the point referred to by short-lived Commissioner Buttiglione during his hearing because, God forbid that we should create reception centres – I would say camps – in the countries left by migrants.
This year we have reason to be optimistic because for the first time we are seeing the European Union finally responding to our repeated calls for action.
I can confirm that the work of the Commission will continue in the spirit that is also shared by this Parliament: a European approach that can combine firm action against the traffic in human beings and illegal immigration with strong action in the area of solidarity.
Europe’s values are values of solidarity and respect for the fundamental rights of every man and woman.
It is from balancing these two requirements that the added value of Europe can result, even in the sensitive area of migration policies. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on controls of cash entering or leaving the Community (14843/1/2004 C6-0038/2005 2002/0132(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr Peillon) (A6-0167/2005). &#160;&#160; .
I believe that the adoption of this proposal will provide the Community with a solid measure to enable customs to control significant amounts of cash entering or leaving the Community.
Cash movements are also an easy means of moving terrorist funding.
We therefore need these measures to complement the existing money laundering controls to remove the possibility for criminals and terrorists to use this gap in controls.
The proposal also sets out a reporting mechanism to ensure that information obtained is handled and exchanged efficiently and with due care.
I therefore believe that the proposal you have before you today will close existing loopholes and reinforce our actions to combat terrorism and organised crime.
In this context, the Council’s common position and Parliament’s recommendation for this second reading are moving in an essentially constructive direction.
An obligation to declare or disclose cash movements could easily be changed to impose an actual limit on the movement of money out of the European Union.
I should like to draw his attention to the fact that, as far as the Commission and the Council are concerned, we are absolutely certain that the European Parliament had no intention other than to control cash flows in order to combat terrorism and organised crime.
I would hope that you can confirm your support during the vote on this proposal. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; This regulation is just one of the many legal foundations offering a basis for an effective fight against terrorism.
We must be aware that the numerous security measures on the borders and within the borders of the EU can make a significant contribution to a higher level of security and protection against terrorist acts.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Peillon, for his level of preparedness and cooperation, and for seeking out the best path.
I would remind the House that this Directive sets out general rules for the movement and holding of products that are subject to excise duty.
The latter include mainly alcohol and tobacco products, but also liquid fuels.
I would further note that Article&#160;27 of the 1992 Directive imposed upon the Commission the duty of submitting a report to the Council on the impact and implementation of Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10 for the period up to 1997.
Firstly, the Commission wished to ensure consistency in the implementation of one of the principles of the single market.
I refer to the fact that excise duty on products moved for commercial purposes is to be paid in the country of destination, whereas excise duty on products moved by individuals who have purchased the products for their own use is to be levied in the country of origin.
Finally, the Commission has also proposed that Article&#160;7 should include a clear indication of the person from whom excise duty is due.
The Commission is also proposing an important amendment to Article&#160;9, namely that the quantitative limits, which to date have not been used as intended, should be abolished.
Parliament’s amendments primarily involve linguistic changes and improvements to the wording of individual provisions, as well as the incorporation of more accurate terminology.
Without exception, the amendments we have made serve merely to improve the text and to provide what could be regarded as additional explanations.
I am very pleased to note that this report strongly supports the proposal of the Commission, the aim of which is to improve the functioning of the internal market in this area, both for citizens and for trade.
The proposal concerns the so-called ‘duty paid movements’ of excise products between Member States.
While it is true that this type of intra-Community movement represents only a small proportion of the total intra-Community movements of excisable products, it must nevertheless be stressed that they mainly involve the European citizens and small and medium-sized companies.
For the European citizens the proposal aims to clarify the existing rules on the movement of goods from one Member State to another.
The proposal provides clarification on this issue and also enhances the possibilities for citizens to purchase duty-paid goods in the Member States of their choice, without having to declare those goods and pay duty on them in their own Member State.
That will better align the system to the principles of a real internal market.
For goods moved for commercial purposes, the Commission proposes to maintain the basic principle that excise duty is payable in the Member State of destination, but to harmonise and simplify the procedures to be followed in that Member State.
That will especially benefit small and medium-sized companies such as small wine traders who try to commercialise their products directly in other Member States.
Today, the complex rules, which differ considerably between Member States, often deter those companies from doing business in other Member States.
I will not pretend, however, that the text voted for by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs does not bring up a considerable number of difficulties.
The expression of divergent interests has resulted in a rather shaky overall construction that contains certain inconsistencies, or even contradictions.
The aim of the Commission’s proposal is to move towards the creation of the internal market, to promote the free movement of goods subject to excise duty and, finally, to respond to consumers by enabling them to make their purchases where they see fit.
Under these conditions, I am surprised at the proposals of some of my fellow Members which would lead to a situation contrary to this logic, even returning to the situation that existed prior to 1993.
The logic of the internal market very clearly requires the end consumer to pay excise duty in the Member State of acquisition for products intended for private consumption.
The existence of indicative limits laying down the maximum quantity of goods that can be transported from one Member State to another has become too rigid an obstacle, which has led the Commission to propose that it should be scrapped.
That is a good suggestion, which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has unfortunately only followed partially, as it agrees in principle to the abolition of the limits, but refers, in an amendment, to those same limits as if they still existed.
The problem is that the dividing line between the two cases is not always clear and that the differences in their treatment will, I am sure, lead to a number of practical difficulties.
Nevertheless, it would simply be a case of sticking to the logic of the internal market.
Within the framework of this endeavour, I should like to emphasise two points which I consider could play a decisive role.
These levels currently operate as single quantitative criteria for the national administrations of the Member States, when they are called on during the importation of products subject to excise to assess if products are or are not being held for commercial purposes.
The abolition of guide levels will allow the national administrations to each adopt and apply their own criteria for assessing if products are or are not being held for commercial purposes.
Obviously, there is no simple answer; however, the experience of economic reforms implemented by us, the new members, is solid proof that the best results may be achieved when the problem is tackled in an integrated manner.
Indeed, how can we speak about the common market where individuals cannot import goods for their personal use?
The other problem we will encounter is the emergence of a small layer of merchants who will carry spirits from one country to another, for example, from Estonia where the excise duty is low, to Finland where the rate of the excise duty, and, respectively, the prices, are higher.
The solution to this problem can hardly be found without an integrated approach towards the development of border regions and the creation of new jobs, so as to provide those people with an opportunity to earn their living in another way.
Thus, the economic measures that may contribute to the prevention of negative consequences are always available.
Through unfair tax competition, unlimited movement imposes, in principle, upon all countries the policy applied by the Member State with the lowest tax.
Because many alcoholic drinks may be stored for a lifetime, anyone can maintain that a lorry-load of such drinks is for personal use for the next 40 years, an option that would allow smugglers to go free.
With a 120-day principle, account could be taken of, for example, birthday parties and of differences in levels of consumption between one country and another, but there would still be a legal reference to what might be regarded as reasonable in terms of personal use.
Voting down this amendment would, in practice, amount to a ban on all EU countries taking any measure whatsoever to combat tobacco and alcohol consumption for health reasons.
That can scarcely be the intention of this House, because it would be in conflict with Article&#160;30 of the Treaty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in his English Dictionary of 1755 Samuel Johnson defined excise as ‘a hateful tax’, and this tax and the way it is policed have become a hate object also for my Scottish constituents.
Perhaps it is time to abandon excise tax altogether and turn to value added tax as the only consumption tax. &#160;&#160; I agree that the amendments should include proposals to facilitate the movement of goods subject to excise duty, with a view to completing the internal market.
I also consider it to be a step forward, that the present draft European Parliament resolution includes the quantitative guide levels for cross-border movements of goods subject to excise duty.
This means that differences in income and prices among the Member States will increase considerably for quite some time.
On the EU’s eastern borders in particular, for example in Hungary’s neighbour Romania, it will be a long time before prices and incomes can jump to the level of those in higher-income neighbouring countries.
In Hungary, for example, not only would this mean a loss of government excise revenue; it would also harm the retail trade and producers of goods subject to excise duty in general.
A number of the amendments modify or add recitals in order to emphasise the need to create an internal market for excise products also.
That was the basis for its proposal and it has come to the conclusion that they should no longer appear in EU legislation.
Lastly, as regards the burden of proof that goods are for private use, the amendment in question seems to place that burden entirely on the administration.
As such a decision can always be contested, it should be based on firm grounds. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that this debate does no more and no less than to highlight the many things that still remain to be done if we are to see a real internal market in every area of our lives.
On every issue, this House must be consulted via the codecision procedure, and that includes issues of fiscal policy, and if we want to realise the internal market, we will have to give more attention to tax policy within the European Union.
I am in favour of tax competition, but every competition has its limits.
Renewed efforts, though, are needed for we do not yet have an internal market, and so we have not yet heard the last of this proposal. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I should like to thank my colleagues who have contributed to the debates we have had on this issue, not least in a hearing that we held in Parliament.
I sympathise with the Commissioner who tonight is not too well, but I am sure that this measure will help to find a solution even to that and we will be able to find somewhere for him to travel to in order to find succour!
It gave them the right, if they faced undue delay in their own country, to go to another country with certain criteria: that the cost was comparable to what they would have paid in their own country and that the treatment was common in their own country.
There were one or two other criteria as well.
There are many ways in which people who face delays in their own country can be helped.
However, the E-112 has not been part of the solution.
Just as fundamental is guidance to doctors who will refer patients abroad, as is guidance to the health services and the insurance companies who will have unplanned expenditure and want to know how they will be reimbursed.
But I believe that Parliaments, not lawyers, should decide policy.
I wanted to be here personally because I consider this to be a very important issue, something that we all have to work on in the next few years.
The rapporteur is right that people are ahead of us in this respect.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bowis, for his work on, and the effort he has put into, this report.
Nevertheless, things change.
People such as myself travel because of business or because they have to wait a long time in their own country or because the specific treatment required is not offered in their country, or even more so, because they feel that they can get better care elsewhere.
I thank Mr Bowis for his excellent report.
This is a first step on that road and is a response to the impressive communication from the High Level Reflection Group, which was set up in response to the ECJ judgments.
However, I agree with our rapporteur’s view that a sense of urgency is missing from the communication in relation to policy and spending priorities.
I would favour the minimum legal framework necessary for both providers and purchasers of cross-border healthcare, but we should not underestimate the complexity of the task.
As we know, health policy and health budgets are competences of the individual Member States: this is strictly subsidiarity.
The attempt to deal with this issue in the General Services Directive is ill-advised and I welcome the Commission’s change of mind.
But only one patient opted to travel to Ireland for elective treatment.
By comparison, 137&#160;000 opted to travel to Spain.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too, of course, would like to thank Mr Bowis for his splendid report, which will enable us to counter, yet again, the widespread prejudice according to which Europe does not care about its citizens’ actual worries and needs.
In my own country, for example, 90% of what patients are entitled to is founded upon widely-dispersed case law, none of which is summarised in a single, comprehensive and binding document.
What we also need, though, is greater transparency in the reimbursement of costs.
The existing legislation on reimbursement of costs needs to be approximated, and there is an urgent need for a single legal framework on patient mobility.
Let me conclude by pointing out that we must not limit Centres of Reference to the treatment of rare illnesses; they are also needed to deal with all the other conditions that require a particular combination of resources and expertise, such as cancer, epilepsy and multiple sclerosis.
Subsidiarity notwithstanding, this gives us our great opportunity to enable Europe itself to do much, much more for its citizens.
The version after it passed the Committee contains many ‘would it not be nice if’ and ‘this and that would need to be promoted’ and the conclusion is yet again that the responsibility for health and health care really lies with the Member States.
I should therefore like to seize the opportunity of arguing in favour of the European Union adopting a bigger role in health and health care.
Opening up borders for patients also encourages health care in our own countries to achieve better quality, cutting waiting lists and making specialist knowledge available.
As the committee responsible for Regulation (EC) No&#160;1408/71, we have an interest in it, as do I as Parliament’s rapporteur during the previous term.
We will have a real mess unless we do this properly and in a considered manner, as has been proposed in this report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, it would be an oversight on my part if I too failed in turn to congratulate Mr Bowis who, through his report, has expressed his knowledge and experience on these matters.
The opinion of the European Parliament on the serious issue of patient mobility is important as a lever for exerting pressure on the European Commission to take clearer measures on this issue.
European patients have rights which must also be protected by law, so that they can have the corresponding social cover wherever they may be in the Europe of free movement.
Provision is made for the creation of a database of medical information on patients; however, as provided for in Amendments 48, 49, 50, 67 and 68, certain protective measures must be taken to prevent abuse.
In other words, patients must be treated in hospitals as close to their place of residence as possible.
It is only natural that certain citizens resident in cross-border areas should be able to go for treatment to hospitals in neighbouring countries which are closer to home than treatment centres in their own country.
I therefore consider that the question of patient mobility and of services in general should not be included in a general services directive.
Cooperation in this field, particularly at Member State level, should in theory increase the treatment options available, not only by making it possible to receive treatment after having moved to another EU Member State, but also by allowing patients to travel to other facilities if appropriate medical care is unavailable in their home country.
Whereas citizens of the 15&#160;old Member States mainly move around the EU in order to avoid waiting lists or in search of cheaper treatment, the majority of citizens in the new Member States are denied medical care.
Mr&#160;Bowis was right to highlight this ‘brain drain’ in his report, as it poses an enormous threat to the health of less wealthy citizens.
What is more, the various liberal ideas that are currently in vogue, which include viewing health care as a service and a market commodity and making it more difficult to acquire specialist qualifications, as well as the various economic programmes that advocate job cuts at the expense of health-care systems and that merely improve the economic situation of private medical centres, will not solve the growing number of problems we face in the health-care sector or create new jobs.
The end result of this will be an increase in the cost of medical care and a deterioration of public health. &#160;&#160; I welcome Mr Bovis's report on patient mobility and healthcare developments in the European Union.
Particularly at a time when Europe is much troubled by the question of 'European solidarity versus national identity', it is important to demonstrate to citizens that the European institutions are preparing simplified mechanisms and improved healthcare for their citizens.
The fact that, on the basis of the principle of Subsidiarity, Member States and their politicians are responsible for providing healthcare is one of the serious obstacles to the free movement of people.
Patient mobility could help to improve the currently inadequate healthcare in some Member States.
Effectively, waiting lists cause patient's treatment to be postponed, something that may even, from a medical point of view, might be seen as a threat to their health and their lives.
First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Bowis on the clarity of his report and of his stance on something that is a live issue.
What is worse, in many countries, questions are being asked about quality and accessibility at a time when waiting lists and waiting times are getting longer.
It is, of course, practical to make joint arrangements about transnational treatments in border regions, and the departure of patients to other countries can be an incentive to invest more in national health care, although that is an unwieldy way of stimulating quality.
There is a considerable difference in quality between the Member States.
Instead of dreaming up procedures, laws and regulations which should guide the free movement of patients, the Commission would be wiser to invest in the exchange of knowledge in the most dynamic way possible.
All bladder cancer patients want to benefit from Austrian knowledge and expertise.
They regard freedom of choice as a threat to their own ability to plan and regulate, in other words as a threat to their own power.
Freedom of movement provides, firstly, competition between health care systems that drives development forward and, secondly, a more efficient use of health services’ scarce resources.
I would call upon my fellow MEPs to vote in favour of Amendment&#160;5, tabled by Mr&#160;Bowis, Mrs&#160;Oomen-Ruijten and myself on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
The amendment entails adding a new paragraph, 4a, about not stating in the resolution that we are to remove health services and medical care from the Services Directive.
To crown it all, the removal of healthcare services from the directive is not a subject that even belongs within this debate, in which we are discussing the mobility of patients, not that of healthcare providers.
It is important to emphasise people’s knowledge of healthcare in different countries.
I therefore want to conclude by inviting you all to a seminar on 15&#160;June in Brussels where we shall, for the first time, present a proper factual comparison from the patient’s perspective of Europe’s healthcare systems.
You are all sincerely welcome to attend. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we must today, I believe, make it abundantly clear to the European public that, while every jot and tittle of Mr Bowis’ excellent report cries out for Europe to take an initiative, this cannot justify the charge of over-regulation that is levelled against it.
If implemented, every single thing that the report demands and proposes would add value to the European citizen’s participation in the European Union.
European citizenship is something that we all want.
Europe’s citizens have fundamental rights; medical care and help in an emergency are, within the European Union, among them, and they cannot be restricted to a citizen’s own country.
As a community founded upon solidarity, we have to be there for each other, above all when we need each other.
My view is that the report has come at the right time, for these are issues that we are currently discussing at so many different levels.
It was also very useful for me to see how we can take this work further.
I am really concerned about every single aspect of this complex issue which we call patient mobility, because it is not just about moving patients from one country to another.
The processes in the Union are rather slower than in the Member States, but when it comes to coordination or whatever method we choose, it takes even longer.
Some things are easier or more urgent.
Centres of reference are very important and are included in the report.
However, we also encourage them within Member States, because they is needed there as well.
Patients’ rights are important.
I am proud to say that the country I know best has already adopted legislation in this respect.
It is a question of subsidiarity, but we will encourage the Member States to adopt some kind of charter of patients’ rights, which may or may not be binding depending on the legal system of each Member State.
Finally, another project which is important and which we will finance through the new health programme – provided it survives the Financial Perspectives debate – will be the financing of a new strand in health cooperation between Member States.
I will keep Parliament informed on the progress of the High Level Group. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon.
