We cannot allow this situation to deteriorate even more, and I urge the Sudanese Government to step back from the decision to expel 13 leading non-governmental organisations from Darfur.
The aid agencies in Darfur run the largest humanitarian operation in the world.
The affected population groups, who have largely fled, deserve our support in their struggle to survive.
author. - Madam President, this House is very concerned about the decision by the Sudanese Government to expel humanitarian organisations from Darfur, a move which could have catastrophic results for hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians.
Madam President, as a result of brutal ethnic cleansing in Darfur, around 300 000 people have died and 2.5 million have become refugees.
The population has been affected by one of the most serious humanitarian crises in the world.
The International Criminal Court in The Hague has accused the Sudanese President, Omar al-Bashir, who is responsible for this situation, of war crimes and crimes against humanity, and has issued a warrant for his arrest.
Madam President, Commissioner, we find ourselves in a very complicated situation.
Millions of people have been displaced and are struggling to survive and they have been in this situation for months or years rather than for weeks.
I therefore suggest that we remove the three paragraphs 2, 5 and 6 from the resolution and adopt the remainder as proposed.
Madam President, I have here a letter, written by 28 women from Darfur who managed to escape from the conflict zone, which is addressed to the African Union and the League of Arab States.
The women of Darfur, in the letter dated 4 March 2009, express their support for the warrant issued by the International Criminal Court for the arrest of the Sudanese leader Omar al-Bashir.
Omar al-Bashir responded to the international arrest warrant by expelling 13 foreign charitable organisations from Sudan.
Witnesses have reported cases of diarrhoea in the Zam-Zam camp and cases of meningitis in the Kalma camp.
The instigator is the Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir.
Nearly five million people need urgent humanitarian aid.
In the meantime, the Sudanese Government has decided to expel 13 of the leading non-governmental aid organisations from Darfur.
Madam President, the conflict in Sudan, which has racial, religious and economic roots, has been going on for over 50 years.
It has already claimed over 3 million victims, and forced over 4.7 million people in the region to leave their homes.
The latest stage of the most serious humanitarian crisis in the world, which has once again come to the attention of the European Parliament, has involved the decision taken by the Sudanese Government, led by President al-Bashir, to expel 13 humanitarian organisations which are providing much-needed aid in the form of food, medication and medical care.
The photographs and films emerging from Darfur, which have moved viewers around the world, cannot truly reflect the crisis facing people in this region, who are trying to emigrate to nearby Chad, as well as to other countries and continents, including Egypt, Israel, the United States, Canada and Europe.
Those of us who visited Darfur in July 2007 and went to al-Geneina and al-Fashir, to Nyala and Kapkabia and to many IDP camps around those cities, are fully aware of the suffering of the people of Darfur and the tremendous job that NGOs do there.
According to the UN, almost 5 million Sudanese people currently need urgent aid.
The International Criminal Court has issued a warrant for the arrest of the current President, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity.
The Sudanese Government has responded by expelling 13 of the largest non-governmental organisations involved in the largest humanitarian aid effort in history.
Therefore, Madam President, Commissioner, I am of the opinion that paragraph 4 of our resolution, in which we call on the only great power in the world that can influence this region, the People's Republic of China, to make the Sudanese Government retract its expulsion of NGOs, is particularly important. - (PL) Madam President, we are witnessing serious events taking place in the field of international politics.
The Sudanese President, for whom an arrest warrant has been issued, is seeking to take revenge on the international community by expelling politically neutral organisations which seek to bring humanitarian aid to the suffering people of Darfur.
We will need to react to such a move. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, we are being blackmailed by a dictator who has taken millions of people in Darfur as victims and seeks to use these victims to avoid international sanctions.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the European Commission is deeply concerned - like you - by the Sudanese decision to expel 13 international, as well as to suspend three national, humanitarian NGOs and two national human rights NGOs, following the ICC indictment of President Bashir.
Six of these international NGOs operate with EC humanitarian funding amounting to a total of EUR 10 million.
Sudan is the Commission's single largest humanitarian operation: EUR 110 million in 2009.
