Priorities of the European Parliament for the legislative and work programme of the Commission for 2009 (debate) The next item is the debate on priorities of the European Parliament for the legislative and work programme of the Commission for 2009.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are debating the legislative and work programme of the Commission for the coming year, 2009, which is an election year.
The question, then, is this: how should the European Union present itself to Europe's citizens in the coming year?
Peace has been a fundamental concern throughout human history, and the European Union has safeguarded peace in Europe for many decades.
Thus the Treaty of Lisbon is vital.
The current financial crisis is sufficient reason to discuss this issue, and that is what we have done in the context of the Rasmussen report.
If we read the lead articles in any conservative newspaper today, whether it be the Financial Times or the Frankfurter Allgemeine, the headlines could have been written by socialist groups in this House, but not by the Commission President and certainly not by Mr McCreevy.
That is unacceptable, and we should not be accepting it.
When it comes to the financial crisis, regulation and the social dimension, the social market economy is supplying you with too little content.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Madam Vice-President, next year - 2009 - is indeed a very important year for the European Union, for it is the year in which the European elections are due to take place, and more generally, the major question as to the European Union's future course must be answered.
At the same time, so much is happening in the world which directly affects citizens in their daily lives, such as rising energy prices and the financial crisis.
That is why it is important for the European Commission to set out very clearly how it intends to respond to these crises and, in its work programme, to define exactly where the political priorities must lie.
In this context, it is important, from our perspective, for the Commission to keep the European Union's competitiveness in mind.
In an increasingly globalised market, it is important for us to define this as one of our continued political priorities.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Commission, the debate about the work programme is, as always, the moment of truth.
We have before us a climate protection programme which suggests that the Bali conference never happened, as if Europe had never positioned itself as a key pioneer to avert the dangers of climate change at global level.
That is completely unacceptable.
If we are to remain market leaders here, we must send out a clear and unequivocal message, and that means setting the priority where it is needed.
Finally, we have the debate about the financial markets.
We should be signalling our willingness to create a sound framework so that the financial markets can no longer evolve in the same direction as before, where nonsensical financial products took precedence over sound economic policy.
The 20 20 20 slogan is a typical example of a catchy phrase to work with: 20% of energy in the EU from renewable sources; a 20% reduction in carbon emissions - all by the year 2020.
We were told recently by the IPCC that 2 500 scientists were all in agreement that CO2 was responsible for global warming and that we humans were the culprits.
Since then, however, over 30 500 scientists and climatologists have signed the Oregon Petition and the Manhattan Declaration which directly challenges the IPCC conclusions with some very compelling evidence.
So whilst we are urged to believe the IPCC's 2 500 scientists, we are being told to completely ignore the 30 500 scientists who are painting a different picture.
You will no doubt be pleased to hear that this will be my very last speech in this Parliament since I retire after this session. (SK) The European Parliament's motion for a resolution on the Commission's work programme for 2009 can be agreed in principle like the document expanding on this programme.
The Commission must develop a detailed plan to bring about an improvement in the legal regulations for financial services and review the directives on the activities of credit institutions and capital adequacy.
The answer is that they are about creating authority amongst Europeans, amongst people who are citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
The main policy priorities which the Barroso Commission envisaged for next year are still structured around five pillars, but the circumstances are different and we are facing new and urgent questions.
Of course, we think that well-thought-through proposals also play a very important role in ensuring that we can deal with the effects of the financial crisis.
The Copenhagen meeting will be a major global rendezvous with a view to reaching a global climate-change agreement for post-2012/post-Kyoto.
The fourth pillar is how to focus our intentions on delivering policies that put our citizens first.
The revised social agenda and the EU health strategy will also guide our action in this area, as well as the question of how we can further strengthen the rights of consumers.
On the external front, the challenges for 2009 are well known: the enlargement process, relations with our neighbourhood, the fate of the Doha negotiations, improving our record on development assistance and establishing full cooperation with the new US Administration.
On different sides of the House you have different views on how we should prioritise over the next year.
We intend to adopt it next month and to present it in plenary with the whole college present on 19 November.
In the PPE-DE Group we believe that, as we already have quite good legislation in place in Europe, everything we do now should be based on the existing legislation and its improvement.
Financial markets are very global and we cannot act in Europe as though we were in a vacuum.
We should not take the fundamentalist view about climate change that Europe must act now and must do everything at once without global support.
For example, in the social package we should always take on board their views and how they see the social framework environment in Europe.
The social package should not be a burden to European small and medium-sized companies. (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, I want to concentrate on the social EU.
That is only natural, but we also have to try and speak to you in this dialogue with one voice so that some clarity comes forward.
It should produce an umbrella, it should produce some control, but it should also give individual choice so that individual citizens can begin to feel in control again in these times of uncertainty.
So, let us give our citizens a choice in how they live their lives.
Yes to Europe, but yes also to individual choice and empowerment. (GA) Mr President, the Commission, the Council and, of course, Parliament's greatest concern is that Europe's economy improves without delay.
All of us, in the European Union, must invest more in research and development.
Both this Parliament and my Group said that it was impossible to adopt new political priorities without ensuring sufficient funding.
For example, a consumer scoreboard is a very important instrument which must be further expanded so that we can take better account of citizens' concerns and interests in this area.
The second point which is also important in this context is better monitoring of the impacts of EU legislation.
The 2009 programme contains no serious flaws, but it is not the programme our fellow citizens need.
In my view, what we are able to agree on - and Madam Vice-President, you mentioned this earlier - is that the European Union must maintain its commitment to the fundamental principle of the social market economy while promoting the interests of the business sector and consumers alike.
However, I believe - and here, I would like to follow on from what Mr Nassauer said - that during the coming months, the Commission must develop a better sense of what is required in terms of subsidiarity.
Madam Vice-President, may I also encourage the Commission to adopt a more courageous approach in its negotiations with Member States in future, for example when it comes to the issue of how we should harmonise consumer protection legislation in the European Union in the interests of companies and in the interests of consumers.
Otherwise, it is a pointless exercise. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2009 is a year in which we will not only be going to the polls but will also have to provide some answers to specific questions asked of us by our electorates.
The new Fundamental Rights Agency should become the main instrument of this activity once the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force.
The Commission must therefore be able to present to us a detailed work programme for 2009 as regards cohesion, which is, I repeat, the European Union's largest budget item and also the most tangible expression for citizens of our achievements, so that 2009 is not a 'blank' year but a year of progress within the 2007-2013 programming period.
We must therefore do all we can to maintain the competitiveness of our businesses and persuade our fellow citizens that Europe is the answer.
We all agree, but the efforts must be joint or not at all.
The main priorities for the Commission, Parliament and also the Council next year should therefore be directed at restoring economic growth and strengthening social cohesion.
There is a need to improve the system for regulating the financial markets in the Union; it is essential to strive for more effective economic and fiscal coordination, including coordination of the system of direct taxes and clear measures against tax fraud.
Secondly, the Green Paper on territorial cohesion expected in October must be the basis for cohesion policy after 2013: not renationalisation, but a long-term European effort, a single integral European policy.
The Green Paper will provide the basis for that and legislative steps should then follow in the new phase. (EL) Mr President, let me begin by thanking Commissioner Wallström.
Allow me, however, to point out to you that in your proposal there is a lack of certain individual recommendations focusing on specific markets or handling important issues such as the protection of intellectual property rights.
As regards education and immigration policy, I think these are issues that you should highlight in your text. (DE) Mr President, Madam Vice-President, I would like to water down, if only slightly, the praise you have received from the House, at least as far as the issue of passenger rights is concerned.
Specifically, this means SESAR for a single European sky and ERTMS as the single European Railway Traffic Management System.
We do not want to be in the same position in two years' time, so this issue is very important to us.
As budget controllers, our expectations are quite modest.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has been to Kosovo, and I would like to announce at this juncture that Kosovo will be something of an issue when it comes to the discharge of the budget.
In my view, we are falling far short of the opportunities available to the European Union and have considerable ground to make up here.
My fifth point is improving cooperation among the Member States in combating fraud.
I believe it is also important to maintain our presence in the conflicts of Central Asia, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and now also Pakistan, to reinforce our presence in the Middle East conflict and to maintain our relations with the emerging powers of China and India.
Contrary to expectations, the financial crisis that started in America a year ago, far from abating, has hit the whole world again and again in ever bigger waves, including the financial markets and thus the economies of Europe.
However, in order to remedy the economic and social impact of the financial crisis, the Commission must make progress in two areas.
Thank you very much.
Finally, 2009 will be an important year to take action on energy policy, where we currently have a number of legislative items going forward.
We attach great importance to the joint action to be undertaken up until the middle of 2009 and in the second half of 2009.
The citizens expect clear and comprehensible information too.
I should like to refer to one of these elements, namely the fundamental change to be proposed by the European Commission in October.
In this connection, I should like to highlight that 2009 is particularly important with regard to the issue of cohesion policy, notably territorial cohesion and integrated action.
In fact, there is no long-term energy perspective and the outcome could be similar to the situation with the financial crisis.
Secondly, the European Union should support, coordinate and perfect the actions taken by the Member States in the field of sports, by promoting competitiveness and the affiliation of children and youth to sports clubs, as well as an unbiased and transparent attitude in competitions.
I want to speak on the situation as regards the Solidarity Fund.
Europe is now 27 Member States, so it does not really matter if it is floods in my region in Northern Ireland or forest fires in Greece, or Spain, or Portugal.
I think it reflects very well the full spectrum of issues that the European Union deals with, from sports - a budget line for sports - to how we label medicines, to what we do in the Caucasus, or how we try to help the situation in the Middle East.
The way we do it, of course, is that we are the guardians of the Treaties, and that also sometimes restricts our capabilities or our capacities to act.
That is what forms the framework for whatever we do.
Nobody should doubt our determination to continue to fight for growth and jobs in Europe.
On the topic of solidarity, this is about energy and climate change and about how we use the solidarity fund, because defence today is also defence against natural disasters or threats that we did not have, say, 10 or 20 years ago.
Concrete results are the most important for this Commission.
I thank you for all your concrete proposals and I would just like to respond to a few of them because I think, for example, the whole issue of consumer protection is a very important one, and we have a very ambitious project.
At the same time in this debate you have, however, given some of the best examples of why we need a new treaty, why that would help us to act and speak with one voice in the world and also be more effective in our decision-making, and why that would help citizens.
Finally also on the budget review, I would like to say that this consultation process on an initial so-called reflection paper can help us from the end of November to propose a new way of constructing the budget.
I also want to underline how important it is that we have a framework agreement that we also abide by and follow, and that we can agree on the way the institutions should work in an efficient, effective and democratic way together.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The year 2009 is a crucial year, as the European elections, renewal of the Commission and, hopefully, also the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty will take place.
The main political priority of the first half of 2009 will remain the ratification process of the Lisbon Treaty.
The 2009 work plan also fails to mention what plans the Commission has for monitoring Member States that want to make use of further restrictions after the 5-year restriction, in the interests of the free movement of labour.
in writing. - (RO) The European Union is facing major difficulties due to the unexpected fragility of the international context.
The program should include those aspects on which the future evolution of the Union depends: the common energy policy, the common foreign and security policy, reforming the neighbouring policy and strenghening commitments to countries in the West Balkans, Moldova and Ukraine, which need the European Union and which the European Union needs in turn. 2009 is also the year of European Parliament elections, and the Eurobarometer does not look promising.
