Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement.
I have been asked to speak for no longer than 10 or 15 minutes - I shall try to do so I would like to tell you that I have just returned from a long journey throughout the region, and I have been able to meet with the most important regional leaders and to carry out an analysis of the situation so that I could report also to the Quartet, which met last Wednesday.
Mr President, I believe that this sitting is of particular importance.
It is also being held on a very important date for Palestine, for Israel and for the citizens of the world in general, and of the Arab world in particular.
Given this forty-year situation, we have two opportunities or ways to look at the situation: to look back in order to try to learn lessons regarding mistakes that must not be repeated or to look forward and try to see whether we can learn the most important lesson of all - that the only solution to this conflict that has now lasted for forty years is peace.
I believe that we should now all have the will - the will to act, not just the will to think and speak, but the will to act - so that we can truly make peace a reality in those lands that are so dear to many of us and to Europeans in general.
In the occupied territories, in Palestine, we are witnessing a difficult situation, with violence amongst Palestinians and also renewed violence between Israel and Palestine.
This is not the first time I have been to Gaza, but I believe that going there at this point in particular and meeting with the President of the Palestinian Authority was a moral obligation in order not to give the impression that the world has completely forgotten about what is happening in Gaza.
Gaza is in a difficult situation, with violence between Palestinians, violence which will lead nowhere if it continues.
The Arab countries have also started to give money to the Finance Minister, Salam Fallad, and today we can say that the possibility is beginning to emerge of creating a budget for the Palestinian National Authority.
Without the transfer of resources from Israel to Palestine, however, there is little else the international community can do.
I believe that the meeting of the Quartet last Wednesday in Berlin was, in my experience - and we have belonged to the Quartet for many years since I participated in setting it up - surely one of the most important meetings we have held so far.
If you read the final paragraph of the Statement you will see that it truly looks to the future and commits the members of the Quartet to beginning to work hard, in cooperation with the parties - Israel, Palestine and Arab States - to initiate a peace process, to initiate a process with a political outlook.
I would like to inform you that, for the first time in its history, the Quartet is going to make a joint visit to the region, it is going to hold a meeting over the coming weeks with the Palestinians and with the Israelis and it is also going to hold a meeting with the Arab countries, who I believe, with the Arab peace initiative, are also cooperating in the beginnings of a normalisation of life - or the beginning of the possibility of normalisation - in the territories between Israel and Palestine.
I therefore believe that, at this time of dejection amongst many people, of dejection amongst the Palestinians and also within a certain sector of Israeli society, the international community, by means of the Quartet, is reacting in the opposite manner: It is reacting with hope, with the sense that, after forty years, we have the moral obligation to make every possible effort to make progress towards the formalisation of peace, towards a peace process.
I would like to say to you that these coming weeks are going to be absolutely crucial in terms of setting in train a movement that can take us from the current situation to a peace process that leads to peace.
It is not so difficult to identify the elements that can lead this process to peace.
We are therefore at an extremely significant crossroads, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the situation on the ground, but also a positive crossroads in terms of moving towards a peace process that we can begin to see sketched out on the horizon.
We also hope and pray that peace will also come to Lebanon, and that the special circumstances that have arisen over recent days - which were also accompanied by the United Nations Security Council's approval of the International Criminal Court to try the crimes that were committed in Lebanon - will make it possible to reach an agreement amongst all of the political forces in order to unblock the political process in Lebanon.
Mr President, as we all know and as Mr Solana has just said, the atmosphere in the region is extremely tense.
This has turned out to be the most serious internal conflict since the end of the civil war and has already cost over 100 human lives.
On the other hand, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1757, which secures the establishment of a special tribunal on the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri.
There was the greatest concern about the political and security developments both in Gaza and in Israel, but also recognition that there is no alternative to continuing this humanitarian support and, on the other hand, to exploring how to support this Arab peace initiative.
Last week I also attended a conference in Vienna on the role of women leaders as contributors to peace and security in the Middle East.
Prominent women, such as Tzipi Livni, Hanan Ashrawi, Condoleezza Rice and others, discussed the potential contribution of civil society, of women in society, to peace.
Even if it is a small contribution, this was the first time that Tzipi Livni and Hanan Ashrawi had held discussions at the same table.
The Palestinian people desperately need a political perspective.
I very much regret that tomorrow's meeting between Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas had to be cancelled, but we apparently have to realise that the two sides could not reach agreement on Abbas's plan for a ceasefire, in particular on linking the ceasefire in Gaza with the cessation of military operations in the West Bank.
No agreement was possible, either, on unfreezing Palestinian clearance revenues withheld by Israel before the release of the kidnapped soldier Gilad Shalit.
If we allow this Government to crumble, the implications for the institutions of the Palestinian Authority are very grave and radical splinter groups may be strengthened as a result.
We reiterated this request at the last Association Committee with Israel in Jerusalem on 4 June.
Because the socio-economic situation is so dire, we will extend the TIM until 30 September and we must look for fresh funds for this new extension.
I would also like to say that the financial deficit of the Palestinian Authority is so large that it would be impossible for the Community to shoulder the burden alone.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Mr President, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Mr Solana, ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out, this debate is taking place on the 40th anniversary of the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza.
What was supposed to be a lightning strike has turned into a never-ending nightmare: 40 years is such a long time that entire generations of Palestinians have never known anything but occupation, humiliation, checkpoints and then the wall and almost total imprisonment.
For our part, we would like to emphasise - as the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has long been saying quite clearly - that the only possible way to inject any form of a constructive approach into a constantly deteriorating situation is to openly support the Palestinian Government of National Unity.
Lastly, I would remind you that there is an Arab plan that offers Israel a prospect of peace, not only with the Palestinians but with Arab countries as a whole.
Prime Minister Olmert himself said the other day that that plan could provide a basis for negotiations.
The situation in Lebanon is equally serious, as you have pointed out.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, around this time, we commemorate the Six-Day War, which, on the one hand, established Israel's military supremacy, but which also ushered in the start of the occupation, confrontations, violence and endless bloodshed that have lasted 40 years.
The unfortunate thing is that nobody can have political will and political courage for the protagonists.
It is they themselves who will need to muster this political will and this political courage.
Looking at the debates that took place at the special session of the UN Security Council 40 years ago in 1967, after the start of the Six-Day War, it is interesting to see that the potential solution or plan considered was a guarantee of Israeli security and borders based on a withdrawal by Israeli forces from the Occupied Territories and a two-state solution.
Forty years later, the Quartet has failed to deliver on what should be the simplest of all goals: to bring people around to this way of thinking.
That work must continue, because only by building relations and building dialogue between the peoples can we guarantee that there will be a resolution.
The emergence of Fatah al-Islam in the Palestinian camps in Lebanon and the increasing fragmentation of the civil conflicts in Gaza do not bode well for the future of the region.
The European Union cannot carry on turning its back on the democratically-elected Government of National Unity.
Finally, we must work to extend the Gaza ceasefire to the West Bank, with the creation of international guarantees, sending European and Arab troops under a UN mandate to Gaza and, if necessary, to the West Bank.
At the same time, we are calling for the release of the forty-five Members of Parliament and of the Israeli Gilad Shalit and for a halt to the launching of Kassam rockets and Israel's devastating responses. (Applause from the left) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, my group was very keen to hold this debate, particularly today, 40 years after the start of a war to which the international community, including the European Union, has shown itself to this day incapable of imposing the only just and lasting solution, that is, an end to the occupation, to the colonisation, to the oppression by Israel of the Palestinian territories conquered in 1967.
Mr President, I welcomed, in their form and substance, the strong words you spoke about this in the Knesset on 30 May.
We need to work towards a political horizon to really begin to get into the business of solving the conflict that started 40 years ago.
I told you that last Wednesday the Quartet met in Berlin, and I said that for the first time the Quartet is committed to starting a debate with the parties in order to begin to work towards a political horizon.
This means that, before the end of this month, the Quartet will meet with the Palestinians and Israelis in order to push forward the dialogue - which is still in its preliminary stages - that has begun between President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert.
It is written very clearly in the statement produced by the Quartet last Wednesday.
The answer is no: we do not want to do that; you do not want to do that; the people in the region do not want to do that.
It may be possible for us to use what we have learned from our presence in Lebanon in another place.
I would like to stress again that, as regards Lebanon, the resolution creating the tribunal is very important.
The tribunal is not against anybody.
There has been a very negative reaction in Syria, but I must stress that an international tribunal is not against anybody, any country.
I would like to say once again that what we have striven to do in taking the Quartet in the direction that we are now moving is something that has many fathers - or many mothers - as always, but you can be sure that the Europeans have been working very hard from the very beginning to arrive at this moment.
It will be difficult, but for the future I hope to have the support, help and understanding of the European Parliament, as always. (Applause) Mr President, yesterday I met a delegation of Israeli citizens from Sderot who related to me first-hand the terror in their civilian population from 300 random Qassam rocket attacks launched at them from Hamas-controlled sites in Gaza, which clearly constitutes a war crime in international law, with two dead and many injured to date.
Last week 33 people were detained by the IDF in the West Bank, including the Palestinian Education Minister Nasser al-Shaer, allegedly for their overt support for these rocket attacks.
Many of the Hamas ministerial components of the Unity Government - like the Hamas 1988 Charter inspired by Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood - still believe strongly that the State of Israel has no right to exist, that all terrorist violence is justified through so-called armed struggle, and that they are not bound by previous PLO-signed international agreements.
Some hardliners on all sides reject peace or a two-state solution, but on the 40th anniversary of the six-day war it is clear that this is the only viable long-term solution for a lasting peace in the region.
Our disregard for the aspirations of a people, including their right to make mistakes, introduced just a bit more chaos still into a region that is now in ferment.
Despite your efforts, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner - and I appreciate those efforts - in spite of what you have said to us, and it is encouraging, Mr Solana, I believe that we have not yet radically changed our policy towards the Middle East and that we have not properly understood that we are damaging the very notion of democracy with our response to these elections.
Of course, Mr Tannock, we condemn violence, we condemn the firing of rockets, we condemn the kidnapping of the soldier, Shalit, but there is at present an imbalance.
At the same time, I would like to remind the House of the message from a peace conference held in Palestine in the last few days.
What you described as courage, Dr Solana, namely the hope we must have if we are to remain committed and explain our commitment to the people on the ground too, that hope has faded to a shadow in the region itself.
You said that the situation in Gaza is intolerable.
At the same time, however, we must cooperate actively with the Government of National Unity.
I hope that the Middle East Quartet is now roused from slumber.
On 2 April, Prime Minister Haniyeh said on Al-Jazeera: 'As far as we are concerned, the issue of recognition of Israel has been settled once and for all.
It has been settled in our political literature, in our Islamic thought and in our Jihadist culture, on which we base our moves.
The situation is grave.
This is not just a threat to the Middle East.
Europe must be a player and we must be absolutely unified.
The Temporary International Mechanism must go on.
The other matter about which we need clarity is what is meant by the fact that we are now to support the Arab initiative.
That would be nice. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, High Representative, the fact that the Quartet now intends to act jointly in the region is good news.
That is an important message, because, as we have often said in this House, it is only through concerted action that the Quartet acquires the credibility it needs to be able to give all parties the essential security guarantees.
In the eyes of the region, no member of the Quartet can do that on its own.
It is also true that this patchwork situation in the West Bank, with checks and settlements everywhere, which nips any economic development in the bud, must be ended, and that conditions must prevail in which economic development is possible again.
It must also be said, however, that what is happening in Gaza is a civil war between Palestinians.
The situation is critical in Lebanon, and it continues to be critical in Palestinian-Israeli relations.
The meeting of the Quartet last week pointed out that our active involvement in the peace process was essential.
It is also our duty to guarantee for the citizens of Israel basic protection of their lives and the basic defence of their state. (PT) This issue of the Middle East, and in particular the tragic situation in Palestine, has resurfaced several times in recent plenary sessions.
We have all seen Israel's illegal retention of some EUR 700 million in taxes - money that does not belong to Israel and that is generating interest by the day.
We have all seen in the eyes of those people - human beings with the right to justice and dignity just like us - the hope for a future in which they can live in peace.
Helping the Palestinian people is very important, crucial in fact.
Much more important, though, is helping them realise that their voice makes a difference in their country and that the credible manner in which they ran their elections and sought a solution to present to the world counted for something.
We know how difficult it is and we all know about the challenges, but we all know about the new hopes and we have clearly explained the situation.
What is necessary is, on the one hand, to achieve a certain level of security, and a better security situation first to the Palestinians within Gaza, but also in the West Bank.
We also said very clearly that we want to engage with this national Unity Government according to the actions and the programme.
I have very clearly said what could be done.
I would like to repeat to you that in addition to from our continuous work with the temporary international mechanism - that I would have liked to phase out as soon as possible, but I cannot do so because there humanitarian assistance is still necessary - we offered Salam Fayyad technical assistance in the area of audit, revenue collection and customs.
We are trying to go for development assistance in order to give more hope to the population, but it is true that a lot of political courage and political will is necessary, first and foremost on the part of the parties to the conflict.
we members of the Quartet can only support them, we can push them, we can encourage them and this is what we are trying to do, but we cannot, unfortunately, take the decision for them.
That means the abducted Israeli soldier and the BBC journalist Alan Johnston, but also all the members of the Palestinian government and all the others that are still imprisoned.
Today we are in a very difficult situation, but at the same time, as has been said, it is a time of hope, which did not exist for a long time.
I was at the Madrid Conference and at the last Conference at Camp David.
Secondly, 40 years have elapsed.
This is the first time that the European Union has been at the negotiating table.
Conditions have changed and therefore we have more hope that it can be achieved.
The debate is closed.
June 2007 is a time to reiterate the call for an end to the occupation of the territories that Israel occupied in 1967, for compliance with international law and for the implementation of the relevant UN resolutions, such as the Palestinian people's inalienable right to a viable, sovereign and independent State.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, the Six Day War took place in 1967 and it had its winner.
In the last 40 years the loser has been human dignity.
Crisis management has been the tool used in practice to seek a solution to the Middle East conflict.
There is also a lack of comprehension among the Palestinian groups.
There is a civil war going on in Gaza.
Scores of Palestinians have died in clashes between Fatah and Hamas.
