In order to avoid a huge disgrace, you could perhaps make an urgent appeal to the European Commission to ensure that a Commissioner attends this Meeting, for an entire programme of questions in writing and such like are on the agenda there.
It is also a disgrace in respect of the 70 developing countries that the Commission is not making an effort to attend the ACP Meeting.
I will take it up with the Commission, Mrs Maij-Weggen, and when we have the response we can come back to the House.
Statement by the President of the European Parliament We come to the next item of business - and here I would like to thank the Conference of Presidents and colleagues in the House for taking a short policy statement from myself, followed by a debate, to talk a little bit about the next two and a half years of the presidency.
When I spoke after my election on 15 January I said I would like to claim the privilege which is a common privilege of the newly elected President to address the House on our strategic purpose for the coming period.
One thing I want to bring to this House - and I hope we will all work on this together - is an ability to communicate who we are and what we do.
Thus I am availing myself of the opportunity this morning.
The great sense that I carry from the campaign which preceded my election as President is that there is an enormous appetite for change in our House.
We need, through the different mechanisms - the Bureau, our committees, the Conference of Presidents - to convert that appetite for change into actual change on the floor of this House.
It is inevitably the case that the acquis communautaire requires an enormous amount of work on the part of the European Commission and on the part of the public service in the candidate states to deal with all of the detail.
Although the calendar is not yet firmly set, it seems to me that on two occasions this year we are likely to discuss enlargement, probably before the Seville summit at the end of the Spanish presidency and probably again in November.
I would like to ask you, especially in the political groups, to consider a formula where we can invite MPs from our political families from the candidate states to participate in our enlargement debates with us this year, to create a sense of vitality, to create a moment which is a very European moment, and to do it in terms which allow us to hear the different voices.
They may be voices of accord or discord on some of the issues, but it is a really vital time and I hope the House will find within its mechanisms, and through the groups, a willingness to explore and create this platform, to express in a parliamentary sense this new Europe.
Subject to these details and to getting agreement - because we need to work through it as regards budgets, we need to work through it in our Bureau, we need the agreement of the Conference of Presidents on our calendar - I should like in the coming months and before the Seville summit if I can, to visit every candidate state on behalf of this Parliament and to issue to them, to our parliamentary colleagues, the formal invitation to be the avant-garde for the new Europe and, if you allow it, it will be your invitation to them and my privilege to deliver it on your behalf. (Applause) In the context of foreign policy and on a wider basis I hope in a number of ways that we can up our game.
Europe needs a new foreign policy and I am certain in this House there is a majority and a will to create that foreign policy.
We must be determined to continue to play a leading role in this but we must find new platforms to express our leadership.
That is our business.
We also have to give a signal to the Commission, to the Council, to the wider world, that we in the European Parliament are mature and reliable partners in the project that we share in terms of European integration.
The counterpart is that I want to work now in the lead-up to the Barcelona European Council, with the Commission and with the Council, to get a meaningful interinstitutional working group.
Our essential public purpose is to serve our citizens.
It is important - and we have distinguished colleagues on the praesidium to help to lead this debate - that this is a well-managed Convention.
I read the book Mes combats produced by my predecessor Nicole Fontaine.
But firstly I want to talk to Members in this House to try to develop, mobilise and motivate a majority for change.
But I want to start the first phase right here: to know the ground we stand on, to create a clear will for this change and then to try to bring closure to it.
I have no monopoly on wisdom, but we know - even as far as it goes or may go - that the Corbett report itself is just a start.
We need to look at some of these things and I invite you to look creatively at them, because we need more vitality and we ourselves can gift this to ourselves if we are creative enough.
The acquis communautaire to which I referred earlier on enlargement, covers 2 500 legislative acts over 50 years and 85 000 pages of legislation.
On the Eur-Lex website you will find half of those acts in a consolidated form - not yet the law, because we have never made a law to consolidate all those acts - but you will nonetheless find that half the acquis is now on Eur-Lex in its shortened form.
It should have been done in advance of enlargement, for which these 85 000 pages of text are now being translated.
We as Parliament have a public purpose to bring real value to debate, to be a continental-scale legislator.
I want with you to develop a communication strategy before the next European election in 2004.
The pivotal role that we play in the Convention itself also requires a special exercise in communication.
These are the aims of my presidency.
One got the feeling from your speech that your role as President is not just a representative duty for you, but that politics, what we can do here in Parliament, is something close to your heart.
We want to thank you for that and express the hope that you will be able to keep to this policy in these two and a half years of practical work.
Mr President, I feel particular gratitude for the way you spoke out in favour of us inviting observers from the candidate countries to Parliament and to our groups once the treaties have been signed.
That is why we also want soon to welcome to Parliament members of the national parliaments as observers, as partners in dialogue, as people with whom we can discuss the future of Europe.
It is easy for us in this House to talk about human rights in quite abstract terms.
This means that we must speak out when human rights are violated.
The work cannot be delegated to the praesidium, to the triumvirate of the chairman and his two deputies.
You have just referred to Mr von Wogau's report on the financial services proposals and on the Lamfalussy Final Report, on which we voted yesterday.
At the same time, we must focus on those who wish to become citizens of the European Union, the citizens of the candidate countries and try to engage them in the most noble aspect of our great adventure, which is not simply discussing budgetary issues, but sharing a common destiny founded on peace and democracy.
I would say that these are the noble objectives that we share with a view to making Monetary Union, which is already a reality, into an Economic Union and, above all, as you rightly said, a Political Union, giving primacy to the most noble aspect of politics in public life.
With regard to the most tangible issues that you raised, the agenda of reforms, I should like to express my agreement with you, in that the most important thing we can do is to make our message more specific and to give primacy to political debates.
In this regard, I also wish to thank you for having mentioned the work of the members of my Group, who are also Members of this Parliament, but whom you mentioned specifically.
It is obviously Parliament that must decide, but the President also has powers of proposal and of approval.
As you know, you have always had the support of the Socialist Group on this matter, and considerable progress has been made by recent governments that are part of our political family.
With regard to defending democracy within the European Union, I welcome the agreement reached yesterday on the Lamfalussy programme on the basis of the von Wogau report.
I wish to highlight a few points that I consider to be crucial and which should lead to Parliament maintaining a very firm stance.
This is an absolutely crucial issue and we must prevent a drastic reduction of our powers and a return to commitology.
I am counting on you to take this issue seriously so that we do not find ourselves in a situation in which a fundamental aspect of parliamentary dignity is rendered meaningless.
Lastly, the Convention.
I also thank you for having today appointed Giscard d' Estaing as its Chairman.
The Convention is the daughter of our parliamentary work, but it also has other partners and members and I think that Parliament must act as the keeper of the conscience in this field to ensure that the Convention is visible to the public, achieves tangible results and is not simply a forum for discussion.
That leads me on to my next point, concerning contact with the people.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens and the European Free Alliance is pleased with your speech because, in it, you remind Parliament of its political role and do not dwell on technical details, although I am certain that it will take a lot of time to regulate these.
We want to make history and we want to highlight Europe' s own role in the world at a time when peace and stability in the world are under threat.
We must be able to promote peace and stability in a European manner, on the basis of our values.
We want to enact laws on behalf of public opinion but also in contact with that opinion and with the media which should bring us closer to the public.
This is why we do believe that the Corbett report is a solid basis for a discussion, but if it means that the rights of small groups are cut back, or the rights of individual MEPs compromised, then we touch the soul and diversity of this Parliament, and that is not acceptable.
Parliament cannot accept shortened procedures if the Council fails to debate with us in our committees.
We can hold more debates there, but not in the absence of the Council, not without the attendant transparency and not without the debate that we want.
We welcome your instruction to prepare the future in consultation with public opinion and with the parliaments in the candidate countries.
The Convention will be the proof of the pudding.
If we want to prepare Europe for tackling the enormous tasks of enlargement, the Convention cannot afford to fail.
As the European Parliament, we must face up to our task in that Convention and involve the others in that debate, both regional and national parliaments, as well as public opinion, and ensure that Europe takes the qualitative step forward that is required for enlargement.
I myself have come up with three ideas.
The first idea concerns the involvement of citizens in the debate on the future of Europe.
I suggested that our President launch, in parallel with the work of the Convention and in conjunction with the national parliaments, a campaign on the theme 'Let your voice be heard' .
My second idea was for our President to take the initiative, along with ourselves, in organising meetings in Parliament of groups of citizens from various European countries to discuss common objectives that we could support.
I mentioned three examples.
The first is to organise meetings involving young people to discuss questions that directly concern them, such as Erasmus-type grants or the full and mutual recognition of qualifications, as well as broader subjects - we could call them more civilisation-related issues, like those that were recently discussed in Porto Alegre, under the alluring title 'Another world is possible' .
In the same spirit, you proposed to invite observers from the candidate countries and we shall support you in this effort.
The third idea that I mentioned two months ago is the only one that I fear was missing from the speech you gave this morning, and that is the idea of putting pressure on the Commission and the Council regarding several emblematic legislative texts that clearly spell out to our fellow citizens the direction in which we want to take Europe in the future.
I am personally thinking, particularly at a time when so many businesses are undergoing restructuring, of the directives such as that on the information and consultation of workers, that on the European Works Councils, or even of the framework directive on services of general interest, and am looking forward to the possible - and, in my view, desirable - reform of the Treaties in this crucial area.
In this spirit, we will naturally be prepared to help you to make our Parliament a positive role model for millions of European citizens.
I warmly welcome the statement made by the President to us here this morning.
I also know that the Commission is the best friend of the smaller Member States within the European Union, which can count on protection when they need it.
It is not so long ago that the outgoing presidency refused to come to this Parliament to report on its activities because it wanted to go immediately afterwards.
We have all involved ourselves in this debate and something worthwhile will come from it.
Consideration should perhaps have been given to having that meeting in this House to let all Members see what is going on.
Think again, Mr President, when these matters come up for debate and discussion.
As regards enlargement, I very much welcome and support your initiative to invite representatives from the parliaments of the applicant states.
One small word of caution: let us not overplay our role and move into an area where we might be overlapping the negotiating mandate of the Commission.
I speak from my own limited experience in that area, which I shall relate at another time and in another place.
Mr President, you have made a great start.
Consolidation of the laws could of course take place through our refusing to debate, or directly rejecting, proposals that are not consolidated.
All MEPs must be permitted to speak at least three times a year.
Details of the voting list should be known at least a week before voting takes place so that we can all consult our electorates and be aware of what we are voting on.
There is a report which has been at a standstill for two years in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; moreover a judgement was returned a few months ago by the Court of Justice which raised a number of important points in terms of whether those measures were appropriate or did not need to be amended, or whether legal penalties should not be imposed for failure to apply them.
Mr President, I call upon you to pursue this matter and to revitalise that aspect of the work of this House, for I feel that, precisely with regard to the goal you mentioned, one of the problems facing us is not just the general, essential need to make our working methods more democratic and to ensure greater participation by all the Members, but also to take into consideration the second-class status of the Unattached Members which is endorsed and still confirmed in this House.
At this point, we might just as well do away with the resolutions at the end of political debates as well and, that way, we will become even more of a machine for voting on reports.
I feel that this is not the right direction to take and, in this connection, I genuinely hope that the political groups, the Members and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself will carefully reconsider this suggestion, which is not a good one.
Even today, for example, this meeting could have been organised in such a way that everyone participated or it could even have been transmitted over the internal system.
I feel, and it is our deep conviction, Mr President, that, just as your election was broadcast over the Internet - and this was a major step forward - in this age of the Internet, both committee and plenary debates can and should be broadcast to give all the citizens, not just the European citizens, access to our work.
Lastly, a word on the subject of the statute, Mr President.
I wish you every success in your work in this area, Mr President, and I hope that major reforms will be achieved under your presidency before 2004.
I personally think you have made a very positive start as President of the European Parliament.
If we are to carry out the reform agenda that you have discussed, then we need an esprit de corps in this House.
But, at the same time, you have also done the same with the institutions.
Although we should not overstate these things, there is already an improved relationship between the Commission and the Council and this institution - and, perhaps most importantly - you have shown a willingness to take tough decisions.
If I have any criticism of your speech, it was not in terms of the content - there was hardly a word I disagreed with - but that I perhaps detected an element of "mission creep" in your speech.
I would encourage you to stick to just two or three key items: enlargement being the vital one; the internal reform of this House being the second; and also, as others have said, the communication strategy of this House to connect better with the citizens of the European Union.
We have to conduct reform within the structures of this House while on the floor of this House, as you rightly say, connecting with the citizens by discussing the major items that face them in their daily lives - to actually talk about the issues that matter out there, not the issues that matter in here.
I welcome the decision on the von Wogau report - it was a right decision.
It was a short two- or three-month solution to a very important point in terms of the powers of Parliament.
The Commission presidency has also backed the idea.
In your own area of Cork in Ireland they would be tickled pink to think that we were discussing the feminine side of Pat Cox in Parliament this morning.
But there would be some amusement in some of the more rural parts of Ireland at the tone of the debate.
I thank you for your contribution this morning.
More importantly, thank you for addressing us in a language that was devoid of Eurospeak.
It is important that we all follow suit - from the technical end to us as parliamentarians - as we express ourselves.
It is most important that we enthuse our peoples and - top of your agenda - enthuse the Irish people for the enlargement project which we all support.
In my view, communication and information are crucial in this connection.
There are countless reports on this subject.
There have been many reports, yet little has changed in the many years I have been in this Parliament.
Mr President, you spoke of a realistic and intelligent defence of the prerogatives of this House; you mentioned the Lamfalussy report; also, yesterday you decided not to attend the Court of Justice and to adopt a long-sighted approach on a matter vital to Europe' s citizens.
Within this defence of our prerogatives and this maintaining of better relations with the other two institutions, in which we all have an interest, there is, nevertheless, one aspect that you touched on briefly and on which I should like to focus: access to the 'screening' documents for the candidate countries which, to date, are being denied us.
It makes no sense for us to ask our colleagues from the candidate countries to familiarise themselves with these 'screening' documents, whilst we ourselves do not have access to them.
The second aspect concerning this Parliament' s prerogatives is image.
The three institutions are committed to demonstrating responsibility towards the citizens to produce effective and good legislation.
The three institutions have to improve the quality of legislation.
Legislation must be legible despite its complexity.
To this end, when it comes to reforming this House, I wish to point out that this is a House of committees.
We must support your idea - expressed, amongst others, by the Provan group and by other working parties within Parliament' s Bureau - that the more technical work must be carried out by the committees, but without its visibility to the citizens suffering.
This is why we have to improve the committee' s system of communication with our citizens.
Mr President, you are a magnificent representative of what this House stands for.
This debate has shown that there is much support and much appetite in this House for reform, in this lively exchange we are having in the catch-the-eye procedure at the end of this debate.
But when we talk about reform, let us not forget the conditions in which backbench MEPs work in this House.
David Martin reproached us for not spending more time in the Chamber, but one of the problems is the amount of time we waste getting to this place.
I am sorry to raise such a brass-tacks issue: I know parliamentarians are always shy about raising the matter of their own working conditions but, frankly, unless we can be efficient in dealing with our work, we cannot deliver good service and present a good showcase to the world.
I would not like people to look at the masses of space in the public areas and then come and see our little cramped offices, out of which we lose a third for a useless bathroom - but that is another matter.
I am not sure what I can do as regards the buildings aspect, but you have my sympathy.
Mr President, it is being stated that President Prodi took a position in a press conference yesterday on Commissioner Verheugen's behaviour in the Commission.
I think that we must start at the beginning, because otherwise, only the Group of the European Popular Party will be able to raise these issues and I believe that we all have the right to have the Commission make a statement.
If we do that I guarantee that the other two institutions will also benefit.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, it is my duty, as representative of the Presidency of the Council of the Union, to speak briefly about these issues of Justice and Home Affairs.
My presence here today is underpinned by the will to maintain a fluid relationship between both institutions and to maintain institutional cooperation with this House.
By approving the first Watson report, which led the way on these issues of terrorism, and the important resolution adopted on 5 September last year, the European Parliament put itself in the vanguard of the international community in the fight against terrorism, and, specifically, it is of great significance that this happened on 5 September, before the 11th, a date on which international society seemed to discover the disease that had pervaded it.
I would say that the approval of this report demonstrated the European Parliament' s great willingness to confront the threats of our time.
The content of the Watson report, to which the Presidency subscribes, created the necessary political atmosphere for the European Commission, which had for a long time been working on the preparations for the framework decisions on the fight against terrorism and the European arrest warrant, to table, as a matter of urgency after 11 September, both legislative drafts, which achieved consensus in the Council of Justice and Home Affairs of 6 and 7 December and which were given political endorsement at the Laeken European Council.
The European Parliament has just issued its report on both decisions, with an extremely high level of technical competence and political sensitivity.
I must say that the speed with which the Council has had to debate these issues in order to meet the expectations of our society after the events of 11 September should not allow us to forget the importance today of this debate in the European Parliament.
We are obviously aware of the feeling in the European Parliament that it did not have enough time to debate these issues and I should, therefore, like to clarify that the two framework Decisions respond to the European Parliament' s request to the Council in its Resolution of 5 November 2001, to adopt measures to this end.
As I have already said, the European Commission spent some time studying the proposals and was able to present them immediately after the attacks of 11 September, thanks to the work that had been carried out beforehand.
With regard to the list of terrorist organisations, the Spanish Presidency is aware of the unease caused in this Parliament by the Council' s adoption, on 27 December last year, under the Belgian Presidency, of a list of terrorist organisations, closely linked to Regulation (EC) No 2580/2001, without there being any prior consultation of the European Parliament, which had made clear its desire to state its opinion on this issue.
In the specific case of the lists of terrorist organisations, I must emphasise that the Council has prepared two lists.
Firstly, a confidential document drawn up by the 'Terrorism' group, which it noted at the meeting on 7 December and which features 34 terrorist organisations.
This list was part, until 1 June 2001, of the Presidency' s 'Threat' document, which was confidential and never seen by the European Parliament.
Clearly, the Treaty contains no provision that obliges the Council to consult or inform Parliament on this confidential document, which, in any event, would lose its value if it were discussed in public, and is ultimately intended for the antiterrorist services of the Member States.
The other Council Decision is 2001/927/EC, which contains a public list of individuals and terrorist organisations, linked to Regulation (EC) No 2580/2001 and to Common Positions 01/930 and 01/931.
The adoption of these instruments responds to an exceptional situation, in which compliance with the European Council mandate and with Resolution 1373 of the United Nations Security Council take precedence over any other consideration.
European public opinion demanded that we act rapidly, visibly and decisively in the fight against terrorism.
Despite this urgency, the Council consulted Parliament on Regulation (EC) No 2580/2001, but changes to the legislative format, when the Council reserved for itself powers of execution, in accordance with Article 202 of the Treaty, confirmed by the case-law of the Court of Justice, do not oblige us to consult Parliament.
The presence of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Home Affairs and of the Minister of Justice of the Presidency in these recent weeks in this Parliament underline the will of the Presidency to work with this Parliament.
Together with the creation of the European judicial authority, Eurojust, these two measures form the legislative basis of the European Union's response to the menace of terrorism.
These measures represent a major step forward towards the creation of a European judicial space.
The European arrest warrant applies to a wider range of offences than previous extradition agreements.
It sets a time limit of 90 days for extradition, giving us the chance to judge all suspects of an offence at the same time.
The framework decision on terrorism makes terrorism an offence in every country.
I commend these measures to the House.
The terrorist threat is deadly serious.
These two measures constitute such a serious response.
I regret - and we have in previous debates here regretted - the absence of proper democratic oversight and control of the Union's procedures of law-making in this area.
Nonetheless, we recognise that the process of debate has brought improvements, that our amendments at the first reading have introduced certain safeguards into these measures.
Indeed, it is not unfair to say, from reports of Coreper meetings, that the European Union has been all at sea in its approach to freezing of assets and other decisions.
We know since the end of the 1990s that three phenomena - terrorism, internationally organised crime and corruption - are increasingly linked.
But here I would appeal for the European Union to take the initiative: to take the initiative on ways forward, to try to bring the Americans back into the international community in this fight against terrorism, and to do so within a proper legal framework, with proper democratic and parliamentary control.
Amendments Nos 1 and 5 are identical and they cause me no problem.
Amendment No 2 which comes subsequent to our adoption of the report in committee seems to be slightly out of context and I recommend a vote against.
But Amendment No 3 is the crux of the debate: the movers say that the European Union should not proceed without the guarantee of adequate standards in procedural law.
But, in giving our agreement, we do so on the basis of faith that these measures will be rebalanced with procedural guarantees.
This matter is very poignant to me personally.
I am aware that my name, and perhaps the name of my party, may be associated with laws that could be used for repressive purposes.
The European Union is on trial before the court of world democratic opinion.
By doing so, we would be turning one of the most illustrious pages in the history of this House.
We now hope to see a rapid transposition of these measures so that they are effective, so that decisions are taken that are able to freeze the assets of European terrorist groups and so that efforts are coordinated in the fight against terrorism, not only between Member States, as has happened most notably between Spain and France in recent times, but also between the competent bodies that have been established within the European Union.
Mr President, I am convinced that with this process, we will not only be responding to a demand expressed very firmly by Europe' s citizens, but we will also be making an invaluable contribution to the cause of freedom.
There is no greater risk to the freedom of thought, of expression and to the right to life itself, than violence expressed through terrorism.
Every democratic State has an obligation to provide justice with instruments such as those we are discussing today, which will make its work more effective.
Under the Rule of Law, democratic dialogue must be based on mutual trust and non-violence, with the aim of defending democracy, precisely as we stated in one of the report' s sections on the Union' s role in the fight against terrorism.
We accept the outcome of the Laeken Summit and my group feels that it contains everything that Parliament has been calling for in the first Watson report.
I congratulate the Belgian Presidency on approving this document, despite the problems that some delegations raised and I should like to reiterate our congratulations to the Council and the Commission and our happiness at the adoption of these texts.
We will be doing so for the reasons that I have explained, but I should now like, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you why we will be voting against the amendments that have been tabled.
There is a set of amendments tabled by Members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that seek to make approval of the arrest warrant conditional on improvements to certain judicial standards in the European Union.
We agree with the aim of these amendments, but we do not accept the imposition of conditions.
We also think that the adoption of an instrument as revolutionary as the European arrest warrant must motivate the States of the European Union to make this improvement to their judicial standards.
We are going to work, and I commit my group to this here today, to ensure that these objectives are, in future, met and we shall do so in conjunction with the Commission and the Council.
Here they will find us, supporting them in their initiatives, on which we might table proposals ourselves, but I do not believe that the time is right for voting in favour of these amendments.
I was saying, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that my group is pleased at the approval of these two instruments.
Furthermore, we consider these instruments to be our own, because this Parliament - as you reminded us - has put a great deal of work into achieving this.
Therefore - as you have said - we find it difficult to accept the way in which on 27 December decisions were taken on the four legislative instruments to establish a list of terrorists in the European Union.
On the other hand, however, I have the greatest respect for our democratic system and rights, and also believe that Parliament has an obligation to defend them with the same enthusiasm.
Mr President, the Council should realise that it is heading for a great row if it carries on as in its complex package of 27 December, making legal definitions of who is a terrorist without any democratic scrutiny.
I could highlight flaws in the system of my own country - for example we have the highest number in prison of any EU State - as well as flaws in other Member States.
The Council, as well as MEPs, must welcome proposals that the Commission is preparing on achieving equivalence in criminal justice standards.
Mr President, the issue of the European arrest warrant is really quite bizarre, not only because important issues remain vague, but also because Parliament lacks the courage to exact what it agrees to in substance.
The essence of the definition in this text is identical, but the guarantees have disappeared.
Here in Parliament, we have been made to endorse a list of terrorists, which was, in fact, drawn up by the CIA on the basis of its own criteria and without justification, whilst England, France and Italy are taking measures to curb freedoms, particularly those of immigrants.
Mr President, I sympathise both with the previous speaker and with all those who, as frequently happens, mention - albeit, in my opinion, inappropriately in some cases - the Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi.
Of course, this vote is only a sort of belated attempt to comply with bureaucratic procedures in respect of decisions which have actually already been taken.
As has already been stressed, this way of going about things is not particularly acceptable, for it represents a genuine political humiliation for the European Parliament, which - and we must not forget it - is the only democratically-elected European institution, the only institution which fully represents the European citizens.
As Mr Solana stressed yesterday, Europe will only be able to attempt to win genuine international credibility if it is capable of restoring peace and social and political justice to the Mediterranean Basin and the Middle East.
Europe' s undertaking in these critical areas must not be dictated solely by emergencies and emotion or, even worse, by the selfish desires of those who see their own peace threatened: it must be part of a European project, a practical, ongoing undertaking seeking to secure a fitting economic, political and social future for these areas.
In conclusion, we are confident that the new constituent phase which will be inaugurated with the installation and work of the Convention will genuinely succeed in making Europe a strong, responsible political actor, capable of achieving a single common foreign and security policy and a common European area of freedom and justice.
The added value of this European Union of ours was also shown by the speed with which the European institutions, in particular the Commission and the Council, responded to the terrorist attack on 11 September with a whole package of measures ranging from the definition of the common offence via the European arrest warrant, to facilities such as joint investigation teams in Europol.
What is, however, highly problematic about certain areas of this decision-making process is the circumvention of Parliament - of Parliament, which represents the citizens of our European Union and the involvement of which is required by law and Treaty, indeed it must be involved prior to a resolution of the Council rather than afterwards.
Mr President, if any good came out of the events of 11 September - and it would be a brave person who said it did - I would single out two things.
We cannot close our eyes and minds to the problems of small countries thousands of kilometres away or impoverished and troubled regions - whether or not we agree with the regimes there - and just think that they do not matter.
In addition to repressive measures, it is fundamental that we look at and try to address the root causes - poverty, war, oppression and a whole range of issues - that lead to terrorism.
Mr President, I have taken the floor to express both satisfaction and concern: satisfaction at the tangible step forwards taken by the European Community in terms of combating terrorism; concern at certain inappropriate compromises imposed by some Member States as a condition for them agreeing to endorse our Convention, compromises which we were not able to oppose before it was too late because Parliament was not consulted before the decisions were taken.
Failing in that attempt, our government had the gall to request, and this time obtained - a concession made purely to get out of the impasse - another misleading clause, which, in fact, is in danger of rendering the Convention on the European arrest warrant unenforceable in the foreseeable future.
Furthermore, standards alone are never enough because standards can be broken.
In adopting the European arrest warrant each of our states makes its own judiciary the instrument of justice in another state.
But it should also be the case that if the powers of one country's courts are abused by misconduct of prosecutors in another country, they can be recalled with an effective remedy.
Mr President, since the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September of last year, we in the European Parliament have debated the threats to our freedom, democracy and values in a more realistic light than before.
While I shall vote in favour of the framework decision on combating terrorism, I shall abstain from voting in favour of the framework decision on the European arrest warrant since the latter has not appeared on the scene because of the terrorist threat but serves the overall purposes of federalism and is not limited to striking a blow against terrorists.
In the book 1984 by George Orwell, the state ministries were given names which represented the exact opposite of their functions.
How appropriate it is, therefore, that this measure should be approved by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs - the ultimate Orwellian inversion.
In approving this decision, the committee should be ashamed of itself and, if this so-called Parliament adopts that decision today, it too should be thoroughly ashamed.
Mr President, I would like to tell the rapporteur that he is mistaken.
We are the ones on trial: it is not the Council that is being put to the test today but Parliament.
The Council has taken its decisions, and it took them in meetings held behind closed doors, in secret, decisions partially harmonising criminal law and criminal procedure.
Above all, in automatically recognising the decisions and procedures of national penal systems, it fails to lay down any common minimum guarantee safeguarding the rights of the defendant.
Mr President, I am sorry that Graham Watson is not present, because I wish to begin by paying tribute to his work on these two reports, in his capacity as chairman of the Committee on Public Freedoms, Citizens' Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
We are talking about minimum guarantees of procedure as if there were none.
Not having - as European citizens who wish to establish a common area of justice - to become involved in discussing how to improve these guarantees is another matter altogether.
The Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, together with the Socialist Group, will vote against these amendments, not because we are against the issues, as some speakers have claimed, but because we must make it clear that all Member States have minimum guarantees of procedure which are adequate and equivalent.
Mr President, I think 11 September woke us all up and made us aware of the need for urgent action.
Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, my problem is, though, that this is not just about combating terrorist organisations.
It has also become clear since 11 September that the combating of terrorist groupings is not sufficient on its own.
To take Islamic extremism in the European Union as an example, there are groupings that we do not describe as 'terrorist' but which our security agencies, for example, nonetheless categorise as organisations detrimental to security.
Mr President, the European arrest warrant that is before us is an unqualified political, legal and procedural sham.
Everything was ratified at the Laeken Summit on 14 December 2001.
It is also a sham in substance, because its original purpose was to combat terrorism following the attacks of 11 September.
The first is that we are proposing to change from using a system of extradition between States, which guarantees individual freedoms, to a single legal system, without the representatives of the people being involved in this change.
In the future, for example, for having criticised an immigration policy that a judge supports, or for having declared one' s national preference in one' s country, or for having expressed an opinion that is deemed politically or historically incorrect, a patriot could be expelled from his country, arrested, and transferred to another country that has an unfamiliar language and legal system.
With regard to the need to create an internal judicial space, the differences between national Constitutions and judicial systems must be taken into account so that national legislation can be genuinely harmonised.
The European arrest warrant must be accepted as an essential tool for combating terrorism and crime but, if it is to be genuinely effective, it needs to be handled in the same way in all the Member States.
Only thus will the citizens be able to have guarantees of effectiveness in the fair handling of individual cases and the certainty of justice rather than the freedom and rights of the powerful - as somebody in this Chamber has insinuated - but the freedom and rights of all the citizens, including citizens of third countries who wish to live and work lawfully in Europe.
In conclusion, Mr President, the battle against old and new forms of crime and unlawful activities, against organised crime, money laundering and corruption - combined with a bold fight against terrorism in all its forms - must not be confused with inquisition-like persecution.
Mr President, we must never forget that our task here is to build, all together, a Europe based on the freedom of the citizens.
I should, therefore, like us to be aware of the importance of what we are today deciding on, not only from the point of view of creating a common area of freedom, security and justice, but from the point of view of the political decisions that have led us to this agreement.
If ten years ago we had initiated the arrest warrant, if we had defined the crime of terrorism, if we had made European judges and police forces work together, if Europe had accepted ten years ago that defeating terrorism requires joint action and not only solidarity with those who directly suffer its blows and if we had confronted terrorism with the entire might of European democracy, today ETA would be a thing of the past.
Mr President, this House is requested to give its approval to the proposal of the Council on a framework decision that concerns directly basic principles of democracy.
More than forty years have passed since I learned from Patrick McGuilligham at the Faculty of Law in Dublin what the expression "rubber stamp parliament" means.
The European Parliament' s renewed consultation about the framework decisions on the fight against terrorism and on the European arrest warrant bears the hallmarks of a diversion, although it presents the Dutch members of the PVDA in this Parliament with an opportunity to express our satisfaction with the result achieved in negotiations by the Dutch Minister in the Justice and Internal Affairs Council.
Every presidency pronounces touching words about the crucial dialogue with the European Parliament but, in this area, we have been taken for a ride twice.
Firstly, Parliament was consulted about superseded proposals and, secondly, Parliament was allowed to have its say on completed proposals which were already set in stone.
The vital new proposal on criminal procedural law seems to me to be a good opportunity to right this wrong and thus to better organise this dialogue.
Another reason for this Parliament and, of course, for me personally, to be pleased, is the fact that the decisions adopted by the Council at the Laeken Summit take up the tenor of the positions that this Parliament has expressed on several occasions.
I cannot however, approve the lack of sensitivity that the Council has shown towards Parliament - and this has been recognised by fellow Members and by the Council itself - with regard to consultation on the list approved on 27 December 2001.
In achieving the difficult balance between freedom and security, a position in which we often find ourselves at the moment, we are taking the appropriate measures.
Mr President, I too feel that, in adopting the Watson report, we will be taking a step forwards in the creation of that area of freedom, security and justice provided for by the Treaty of Amsterdam and merely accelerated by the tragic attacks of 11 September.
On the one hand, a common definition of terrorist offences is introduced, which has been greatly improved thanks precisely to the intervention of Parliament and which is necessary for the effectiveness of our undertaking in this field.
On the other hand, not least in the area of criminal law, we are starting to implement the principle that Parliament has already upheld by unanimously adopting the Di Lello report on the mutual recognition of judicial measures when it came before Parliament, which is based on the assumption that all the Member States ensure minimum respect for fundamental rights.
Here, we do not have the Guantanamo prisons but the supervision of the Strasbourg Court to safeguard human rights, although there is room for improvement in all our systems, of course.
I regret to say that the slow progress of this integration means that the European Parliament is still in the situation where it is merely consulted by the Council.
Mr President, having heard all the speeches, the Presidency of the Council wishes to join in expressing its pleasure that today a major decision is being taken; the decision to approve these two Watson reports.
I would say that it represents a huge step forwards in the construction of this area of security, justice and freedom.
Although it has been suggested that we could have done this sooner, the fact is that we are now, at least, on the way to achieving it.
At the same time, I should like also to say, Mr President, in response to the words of some honourable Members of this Parliament, who expressed their concerns that the implementation of these decisions could endanger fundamental rights, human rights and the idea that every European country accepts the primacy of the Rule of Law, I should like to say that this primacy and the safeguard of these fundamental values and human rights are the foremost considerations of the Council and the Member States when implementing these antiterrorist measures.
We have, on several previous occasions, examined the legal configuration of the European arrest warrant and the framework decision on measures for combating terrorism in the light of the Watson report, which was adopted by Parliament on 5 September 2001.
I would like to reiterate that the Commission was already working on these areas over a year ago, at the request of the Tampere European Council, and I think that Parliament can testify that the Commission treated this subject with the desired importance, so that negotiations could be completed by the deadline we were set by the Extraordinary European Council following the events of 11 September.
The two texts before you are an important step in improving the ability of the European Union and the Member States to fight effectively against organised crime in general and against terrorism in particular.
As we wished, the European arrest warrant will fully replace the extradition process throughout the European Union, something that had been requested by the Tampere European Council in October 1999, a request that was reiterated by the Extraordinary European Council of September 2001.
I would also like to stress that, from the outset, the Tampere European Council not only advocated using the European arrest warrant to combat terrorism, but also to make the European arrest warrant an instrument that would replace the entire extradition procedure between Member States.
The requirement of 'dual criminality' - under which the person accused can only be surrendered if the facts that motivated the issuing of an arrest warrant also constitute a crime in the Member State where the arrest warrant is to be executed - is abolished for 32 offences that are punishable by a term of at least three years' imprisonment in the Member State which issued the arrest warrant.
This list effectively covers the most serious crimes and the largest part of these was taken from the Europol Convention, which was ratified by all the Member States, meaning that it was subject to the democratic vote of the national parliaments of the 15 Member States.
As far as terrorism is concerned, the text will enable us to harmonise the definition of terrorist offences at Member State-level.
The text defines terrorist offences in terms of specific acts, such as attacks upon a person' s life or upon the physical integrity of a person, kidnapping or hostage taking, causing extensive destruction to a government or public facility and seizure of aircraft, and also in terms of the aim pursued such as intimidating a population, destabilising the structures of a country or an international organisation, unduly compelling a government or an international organisation to perform or abstain from performing any act.
It also provides a definition of a terrorist group, which is inspired by the concept of a criminal organisation established by the Joint Action of 21 December 1998, and makes it a specific offence to direct a group and participate in a terrorist group.
Furthermore, a mitigation mechanism provides for a system that aims to facilitate the cooperation of reformed terrorists with the police and judicial authorities.
I would like to stress that this definition is particularly important, at a time when the European Union must speak with the same voice at the negotiations that are currently taking place at the United Nations in New York on the adoption of the international convention on global terrorism.
Regarding the arrest warrant, it has been repeatedly reiterated, most notably in Article 1, that in the execution of a European arrest warrant, the Member States and judicial authorities must always ensure that they scrupulously observe the principles recognised by Article 6 of the Treaty and that are reflected in the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I would like to point out that the habeas corpus amendment is contained in the legal system of each Member State and that, in addition, Articles 5 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, taken up by the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, contain rules on the conditions governing detention and release, where the detention is unlawful.
There is nothing in the European arrest warrant that derogates from the application of the provisions of the national legal system and the European Convention on Human Rights in relation to the definition of conditions governing detention, which exist in the European Union Member States.
All the Member States must then adapt their national legislation so that the two texts can enter into force on 1 January 2004 for the European arrest warrant and 1 January 2003 for combating terrorism.
The key to the success of the process initiated with the European arrest warrant will be mutual trust in independent and effective legal systems.
The document will enable us to launch a public debate on these issues and to prepare the communication that the Commission will present before the end of the year.
In this communication, we will tackle questions as diverse as the right to language assistance, legal assistance, the rules on appeal, the collection of evidence, and the issue of alternatives to provisional detention or decisions by default.
Our medium-term objective is to propose a legislative instrument in this area, following the public debate.
Mr President, I am still bearing in mind the prospect of implementing these texts within the framework of the enlargement of the European Union.
The key to success in this area will also be mutual trust in independent, reliable and effective legal systems.
The message is clear.
Financing of development aid with a view to the UN International Conference The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the financing of development aid with a view to the UN International Conference (Monterrey (Mexico), 21/22 March 2002].
Mr President, the Spanish Presidency of the European Union is delighted to appear before Parliament to give details of the current state of preparations for the International Conference on Financing for Development, which is due to take place in Monterrey (Mexico), from 18 to 22 March.
In recent months, the Monterrey Conference has come to occupy a prominent place on the so-called Development Agenda, particularly after the attacks of 11 September and with the realisation that the problems of development in a globalised world require our full, immediate and urgent attention.
This widespread interest justifies the efforts made by everyone who attended the fourth meeting of the Conference' s Preparatory Committee, which has just been held in New York, and which concluded with the adoption of a text that will be submitted for the approval of the Heads of State and Government that are due to attend the Monterrey Summit.
By this I mean that the Community delegation to the Monterrey Summit will be led by the President of the Spanish Government, the President-in-Office of the European Council.
The preparations for the Conference, Mr President, have been extraordinarily complex, given their exhaustive nature and the huge number of individuals that have been involved in the discussions.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank the previous Presidencies of the Union for the considerable effort they have made throughout this process, since it has been a gradual process to bring us up to the point we have now reached.
This ongoing and joint effort now means that, in Monterrey, the European Union can play the leading role it deserves as the world' s major donor of official development aid.
We are, therefore, facing three independent but closely related procedures.
Secondly, everything that concerns the mobilisation of financial resources, the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development and, thirdly, in the field of the environment, the Conference on sustainable development that is planned to take place in Johannesburg in September of this year.
I shall now refer briefly to the features of the Monterrey document, the famous Monterrey consensus that I mentioned earlier.
The agreement that has been concluded lays down that the fundamental pillars of international development cooperation are a series of principles shared by donors and beneficiaries and, in particular, the concept of good governance at all levels, the existence of solid democratic institutions and respect for the Rule of Law, all in the spirit of partnership, on the basis of which the developed States are committed to adopting a series of measures to make financing flows more flexible for developing countries - albeit with a set of conditions - enabling governments to use international cooperation to create domestic conditions favourable to economic growth and social development.
Developed countries also assume the obligation of promoting trade within the terms of the agreements adopted in the World Trade Organisation, which are generally considered to be the main driving force behind all economic activity.
The developed States, after overseeing a reduction of official development aid in recent years, are now committed to increasing it.
This increase of resources is a commitment that applies to all donors, including the United States and Japan.
At the same time, we will be insisting on the principles of coordination, of transparency and of the participation of the developing countries in the international financial institutions.
The mechanisms for following up the Conference were also the subject of intense debate, with the decision finally going to various methods of follow-up, at the spring meeting of the Economic and Social Council, with the Bretton Woods Institutions and with the participation of the World Trade Organisation, also including representatives of civil society and the private sector, and with high-level dialogue in the United Nations General Assembly, held every two years.
This set of instruments and these mechanisms are intended to ensure that the Monterrey Conference process remains on the agenda of the main international organisations and institutions, as well as in the fora of the United Nations, and of its specialised programmes and agencies.
The European Parliament must be very aware, and we must be proud, of the firm position that the European Union has maintained throughout this Monterrey process.
At the same time, the European Union has insisted on the participation of civil society in the development process.
Secondly, I should like to highlight the European Union' s position of emphasising the need for development to be sustainable and to incorporate economic, social and environmental aspects, whilst respecting, in all cases, gender equality and holding the fight against poverty to be a fundamental objective.
The Presidency, therefore, regrets that it was not possible to include a specific reference to the innovative concept of public goods on a global scale, in the face of opposition, to the very last, both from the Group of 77 and from other donors, although it hopes that, given its importance, the discussions on its definition and financing will continue in the appropriate fora.
Thirdly, the European Union has sought to highlight the link between the effectiveness and efficiency of official development aid and the implementation, by the beneficiaries of aid, of appropriate policies in the political, economic and social fields.
In this way, the emphasis is focused not only on increasing the volume of resources, but on its effective use, with the fight against corruption also playing a key role and, furthermore, the commitment to continue with negotiations on the specific United Nations convention applying to this issue.
Similarly, external debt relief has been linked to the effective use of these resources to achieve economic growth and a sustained development that benefits the least-favoured sectors of each country taking part in these mechanisms.
Naturally, the European Union has worked very actively with other major donors, such as the United States and Japan, and with the Group of 77, to achieve consensus on the objective of contributing 0.7% of GDP to development, which allows us to include the differing points of view, economic realities and sensitivities.
I wish to emphasise that, precisely because of this work, a similar terminology has been used in the Monterrey consensus to that approved at the Laeken European Council.
Fourthly, the European Union has made efforts, which have been crowned with success, to have explicit references included in the text on multilateral cooperation in light of the new transnational challenges and threats arising from the funding of terrorism and organised crime.
My fifth point is that the European Union has also worked actively to have specific references included in this text to private-sector banking and to the importance of the development of this sector in supporting small and medium-sized businesses in developing countries.
Lastly, the support measures to increase the institutional capacity of the developing countries in the field of trade should also be highlighted.
For this reason, the Presidency sets great store by the package of practical measures that is being prepared by the competent services of the Commission, to increase developing countries' negotiating power in the field of trade.
Despite the doubts that remained up until the last moment, we were able to adopt a final text on 27 January, almost two months before this important international meeting.
The fact that this was achieved by consensus - as I have already mentioned - and that we managed to involve all the donors in this consensus, makes the Monterrey consensus a good platform for the future, because it is creating the climate of trust that this complex process requires and which, furthermore, now means that the round tables planned for Monterrey can take place in an atmosphere that is positive and constructive and not one of confrontation.
The Monterrey Conference needs to be an innovative event, by tackling development and the fight against poverty from an all-encompassing position, covering the various aspects and encouraging the participation of all players.
We hope that the international campaign that is announced in Article 62 of the document, as one of the Millennium objectives, will also contribute to this.
Mr President, I can ensure this Parliament that the Council Presidency remains firmly committed to this approach and that the success of the Conference is still our main objective, especially if we take account of the fact that development cooperation policy must be one of the pillars on which the European Union' s external action is based, and must be in perfect harmony with other pillars such as the external and common security policies and trade policy.
For this reason, we are sure that the Monterrey Conference offers us an historic opportunity for the European Union to be able to project and transmit, together with the rest of the participants in that event, a clear message in defence of the values we hold dear.
We must counter this tendency by trying our best to make globalisation work for the poor and not against the poor.
In this context, the Financing for Development Conference represents a key opportunity for the international community to enter into a new "global deal" on the assumption that a safer world for all will only be possible if there is a strong signal on the renewed commitment in the fight against poverty.
After the agreement reached in the Preparatory Committee on the final document for the Conference, we should focus our attention on positive initiatives that the EU could make in key areas and on the input we can make in the political declaration in Monterrey.
ODA must also be more efficient: we have to complete work on the untying of aid in time for the Conference.
At present, more than three billion people are trying to survive on less than two dollars per day.
Eradicating poverty is a moral imperative, but it is also an issue directly linked to our common security.
On both occasions, rich and poor countries will have an opportunity to agree upon a long-term plan to eradicate poverty step by step.
The rich nations must offer increased support.
The poor nations must determine their priorities when it comes to work on combating poverty, greater respect for democracy and human rights and a more vigorous fight against corruption etc.
I think the consensus document referred to here today is weak.
Mr President, with the UN Conference in Monterrey around the corner, the world is facing a fundamental choice.
We all have a clear lesson to learn from the disastrous attacks of 11 September.
I want to warn against a new international doctrine according to which the western world, having turned its back on these one billion people fighting for their daily existence, withdraws behind barriers made up of weapon shields and expensive technological defence materiel.
This is unacceptable because it is precisely a doubling of the worldwide development aid figures that is required in order to meet our international pledge, namely that, by 2015, all children in the world will be able to attend school and receive medical care.
The pledges for 2015 are clear.
European agricultural policy must change to benefit the Third World.
Without any serious commitments by the Western countries, the conference in Monterrey will end up in a stalemate.
More development aid is not enough but, without extra funding, poverty cannot be eradicated.
Learning from experience and improved international coordination can make development cooperation more effective.
Mr President, we must welcome the International Conference on Financing for Development, as this is an essential theme in the debate on reducing aid to developing countries.
For more than 20 years, the UN has told donor countries that they must dedicate 0.7% of their GNP to state development aid, in accordance with OECD standards, but only four countries are respecting this commitment.
I do not know if the draft consensus for Monterrey, which does not propose any ambitious objectives, any practical financial measures or a timetable, is set in stone.
The European Union must seize this opportunity to push through the adoption of ambitious objectives as well as restrictive measures, which could enable poverty levels to be cut in half by 2015.
Mr President, all those taking part in the summit must ensure that it is a success.
The European Union has a responsibility to do this.
Mr President, the situation of poverty in the world is perfectly well known, as is the deep gulf that separates the northern and southern hemispheres.
It is truly time to reverse past actions and negative trends, to look at the problem of the development of poor countries in a different way, a way that demonstrates greater solidarity and to adopt practical and binding measures.
Monterrey must also result in guidelines that put an end to the devastating effect of foreign debt on the development of developing countries, by putting forward mechanisms that do not hold back the Highly Indebted Poor Countries initiative and which are primarily founded on global recognition of the principle of debt relief.
The appalling situation in which the developing countries find themselves cannot remain as it is and the European Union and its Member States must not only not content themselves with being the largest donor but must also adopt a clear position which helps these countries to find a way out of this situation.
Mr President, the widening gap between the world's rich and poor represents an enormous potential risk to all concerned.
What we need is an all-embracing concept of the peaceful development of the poor countries.
In terms of words, you are probably right, but the spirit of the amendment is in contradiction.
There are extremely beautiful areas of Europe such as Sicily where the cost of heating houses is very low, but there are other just as beautiful regions - in Sweden and Finland, for example - where heating costs are much higher.
Report Kauppi (A5-0466/2001) I will talk about Scotland in a minute, Mr President.
What, therefore, we have here is something so crucially a matter of principle as a reorganisation of the way in which tax issues are dealt with, involving an abandonment of intergovernmental cooperation with its demands for unanimity in accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty.
In the past, the Council has always rejected this position, and it changed the legal base to Articles 93 and 94, which only require that Parliament should be consulted.
Our clear position is that, in the future too, unanimity shall be required in connection with decisions on taxes, and this in accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty.
This is too important an area for there to be differences within Europe.
Some of my colleagues in the European Free Alliance - a majority of them - voted for the Watson report; not that they did not also regret the absence of the habeas corpus amendment, but that they felt a strong commitment in conscience, as we all do, to getting the European judicial space going forward, and thought that necessary.
I thought we had submitted the names in time, but there was some misunderstanding.
These draft laws are extremely far-reaching, and the security of the individual may be in danger.
A majority of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance therefore voted against the arrest warrant.
The statement protects the right of people to protest, which is one of the fundamental issues that people were very concerned about.
We also have to look at how it will impact on foreigners, for example people from different cultural and religious backgrounds - some people in Western society are extremely wary of them.
There is a great threat to their fundamental rights.
This tactic was on a slow but sure course up to 11 September.
Which is why we are now examining, for the second time, the improved proposals for a Council framework decision on combating terrorism and on the European arrest warrant, the heavy artillery in the capitalist arsenal.
The pure hypocrisy of this statement is highlighted by the fact that the framework decisions deal a very severe blow to democracy and collective and individual social rights.
However, the essential guarantees that we requested in our explanation of vote of 29 November 2001 have still not been included, such as the right for the judge of the executing country to properly check the validity of the request and for the new system not to apply to the nationals of the executing country as they should continue to enjoy maximum protection.
The European Parliament is prepared to turn a blind eye to all these anomalies, because they are helping to build a super-State.
At our previous sitting, however, Parliament did not hesitate to vote in favour of a resolution that refused to facilitate the extradition of terrorists or potential terrorists, who have been arrested in the EU, to the United States.
It would, in fact, have been important to make a gesture in relation to this issue, because the United States is now facing a battle to protect the whole of the western world.
However, we were obliged to vote against the proposal in relation to the European Arrest Warrant.
As now proposed, the procedures go much further than is either necessary to deal with the terrorist threat, or desirable in terms of both safeguarding human rights or respecting due legal process, as is currently satisfied by the extradition agreement processes.
Nonetheless, let no one be in doubt of our determination not to waver in the long war against terrorism, but we do not believe that the European Arrest Warrant as currently proposed will achieve the ends to which we are all striving. - (NL) The initial perplexity which the attacks of 11 September caused have not only led to unqualified support for American action in a country where the possible mastermind behind those attacks could be hiding, but has also resulted in measures being considered which would seriously affect civil rights deemed obvious hitherto.
Anyone who, for a long time, had fought for the right to extradite people to countries where capital punishment still exists, for calling an end to freedoms deemed undesirable in neighbouring countries or for curtailing the rights of suspects, seized their opportunity.
Today' s document addresses this subject - which has already been dealt with in the past - in a number of respects, it develops and analyses it and also welcomes in principle the decline of that aid during the period 1997 to 1999.
The rationale of the report is based on defending the reduction of State aid and on stepping up the measures used in this context, specifically tax measures.
The objective, in accordance with the conclusions of the Stockholm Summit, is to achieve a steady reduction in State aid by 2003, only allowing aid, in exceptional circumstances, specially requested by the Member States.
This is why we have voted against the report. - (NL) The rapporteur is backing the March 2000 Summit in Lisbon which declared that the EU would be the world' s most competitive region within ten years.
Report Martens (A5-0017/2002) Mr President, I voted for Mr Martens' important report on education and training, but I hope that the pensioners of the different sectors of European industry will soon stop playing cards or sitting at home in front of the television, counting the days they have left to live, and be used, if they so wish, to pass on their knowledge to workers, especially young workers.
Report Olsson (A5-0467/2001) Mr President, I wish to point out with some emphasis that certain items in Parliament's report on the ongoing handling of BSE are having negative effects on Europe's farmers and I therefore voted against these unrealistic demands, which had been introduced by some elements in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
To be specific, these were the obligatory reduction to the age of 24 months, the debate on omnivores in connection with BSE, and also aspects of waste management.
I am, furthermore, opposed to the demand for a reform of the CAP with food safety as one of its objectives, as this is already set down very definitely in Agenda 2000.
We will therefore have to pay a ransom for having the right to use - and this is still on a provisional basis - a fundamental competence that we ourselves foolishly abandoned when we signed the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The European Union must now face its responsibilities in this matter.
The zero tolerance principle must always prevail in any matter regarding the protection of public health.
Furthermore, when a case of BSE is confirmed, removing all livestock herds from the food chain always seems to be the solution that will provide the greatest guarantees for the safety of our fellow citizens.
The main lesson to learn from BSE and other recent food scares surely is that we must favour a return to natural methods of food production and feeding of livestock.
We agree with the proposals addressing the principle of prevention and the proposals containing a final definition of terms and concepts, which will prevent the same issues from being interpreted differently in the Member States, given that the current lack of clarity is delaying the application of legislation.
However, we have acute reservations on a number of other points in the report.
Anyone who attempts to tackle parts of this failing livestock policy has my support.
We are therefore faced with a legal system which forces Member States either to stop implementing the measures that they consider essential for protecting their nation' s public health, or to buy the right to do this.
This means that our citizens increasingly feel that the poverty and underdevelopment in which a large part of the population lives affect them and makes them demand that the public authorities demonstrate greater commitment in the field of development cooperation.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that this message is conveyed to you when you arrive: responding to this request from the citizens for greater solidarity requires giving the least-developed countries the opportunity to implement the changes necessary to achieve the progress and well-being of their peoples and to make the framework that you have described for us this morning and, with which we are very happy, a reality.
It also requires, however, a fixed-term commitment to go beyond what was agreed in Laeken and to establish a strict timetable for States that have not yet done so to achieve, within the deadline set, the objective of allocating 0.7% of gross domestic product to official development aid and to do so in order to comply with an ethical requirement: we cannot continue to tolerate the living conditions that so many millions of people, who embody our own dignity and our own rights, are forced to endure.
Solidarity is part of our acquis.
Mr President, the Cooperation Council, which was held under the Belgian Presidency produced a series of conclusions that define the issues our representatives must defend in Monterrey.
We were surprised, a few days ago, by what the President-in-Office of the Council had to say to us in the Committee on Development and Cooperation: we must do everything we can to ensure that Monterrey does not end without agreement and the European Union has to negotiate with the United States until it concludes an agreement with them.
Now that we know the content of the draft consensus drawn up by those preparing the Conference, our fears are all the more well founded.
This statement contains no binding commitment on contributions and on a timetable for financing development.
Seeking agreement must be one of our objectives at the Conference, but concluding an agreement cannot mean making concessions on commitments, such as allocating 0.7 % of GDP, or a timetable for making this contribution with which to finance development.
As far as I remember, we have been hearing about this 0.7% since 1974, and the vast majority of countries are still a very long way from achieving that goal.
The world parliamentary forum, held some days ago in Porto Alegre, also recommends, by means of a resolution, that the United Nations establish an international tribunal to combat debt in order to guarantee financing for development.
Lastly, reforms in the financial system and international trade system are obviously needed in order to make them more democratic and to combat the mechanisms which cause poverty in developing countries.
Mr President, every time we discuss the issue of the poor countries, out comes the usual catalogue of figures: 800 million people suffering from malnutrition; 40% of the world' s population suffering from malaria; 2 million people contracting aids each year in Africa alone; almost a billion children who cannot read or write; water shortages; health and social problems and so on and so forth.
It has become almost a customary ritual to trundle out these data each time.
Of course, the March 2002 International Conference at Monterrey and the Johannesburg world summit to be held subsequently this September will be extremely important in this respect.
The European Union is certainly the main donor but, together with the individual States, it has a key role to play in this respect.
We need closer cooperation with United Nations organisations such as the FAO in order to ensure that the allocation of these funds genuinely serves to improve the levels of nourishment and living conditions of poor peoples.
Mr President, there is no dispute that the European Union is contributing to the war on poverty, but, as we all know, we fall a long way short of our declared objectives.
The removal of poverty, backwardness and ignorance must be first on the list if we are to combat terrorism.
A new world economic order and a new kind of politics are on the agenda - things that were called for by the more than 60 000 participants in the Second World Social Forum in Porto Alegre.
Those who want to provide really effective development aid should not close their ears to the message from Porto Alegre, but actively involve those democratic forces that are active in that forum, in the brainstorming process and in the implementation of a new politics of development.
Mr President, I have listened very carefully to all of the opinions expressed here by the honourable Members who have spoken in this debate.
Naturally, I would say that it is highly praiseworthy that these opinions should be expressed in this parliamentary forum, which must be the forum for expressing our ambitions and our aspirations.
I would say, however, that Parliament also well understands and I imagine that it is sensitive to the fact that we are immersed in an international negotiation in which it is not simply enough for the European Union to hold and to express its ideas, of which we are proud, but instead to try to conclude an agreement with everyone else.
I have to say that the European Union is in a very special position at this type of conference.
I would say that the Monterrey consensus contains all the basic and fundamental elements and, from everything that we have heard today in Parliament, I would say that we have sufficient baggage, both in the Council Presidency and the Commission, to carry on having faith in our ideas.
We already know that there is consensus and that the consensus is very broad, but this does not exclude us from being more ambitious in Monterrey.
The European Union intends to issue a message in defence of its values, which I listed previously: the defence of democracy, of good governance, of strengthening the institutional development of aid-receiving countries, the Rule of Law, peace and security and human rights.
All of these elements that have been mentioned here in the European Parliament are fundamental values of our culture and civilisation and will be the values that guide us in the debates in Monterrey.
In any event, I would say that we have sufficient grounds to feel satisfied, since the Monterrey consensus takes up all of this, perhaps not as far as we would have liked to see, but it does address these issues in a substantial way.
Let us hope that at this meeting, which will be held in March, the European Union, which has a common and single position and counts on the support of Parliament, can go even further with these principles and these objectives that I have expressed and which, as I have seen, enjoy the support of this Parliament.
I should also like to say, in conclusion, that the Community delegation intends to include five Members of the European Parliament and that, therefore, Parliament will be fully integrated in the delegation and will have first hand information.
Naturally, I remain at the disposition of this House and at your disposition, Mr President, to return here after Monterrey and inform you on the outcome of the Conference.
Mr President, it is very important to stick to the view that volume matters when we talk about these problems.
Any global society with just a minimum of decency has to understand that the transfer of resources from the rich to the poor must be a permanent feature.
This is on our agenda for the first time.
So we have made it a new area of discussion.
We have established some sort of peer pressure and the response from the series of discussions in capital cities that we carried out before Laeken was in a sense encouraging because all Member States reacted positively to the need to establish some sort of calendar.
In this area decision-making still lies with the Member States - the Commission has acquired no new powers here - but this discussion is now legitimate and we will bring it to the fore as one aspect of our input for the Conference in Monterrey.
The debate is closed.
President-in-Office of the Council. (ES) Mr President, the European Union has a long tradition of effectively protecting human rights, and has managed to create an area of legal security and undeniable freedoms, with a set of rules inspired by our own legislation and by international codification.
In our case, within the European Union, we have had the parallel boost of the Council of Europe itself, as well as the standard that we set ourselves, both at national level and at European Union level, in the field of human rights.
There are recent examples demonstrating this concern, which is part of our own identity, such as the European Charter of Human Rights, the recent Commission communications on the work of the European Union to promote human rights in third countries, the extremely important work undertaken by the European Parliament in this field and the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 25 June last year, which state that genuine concern to defend human rights must always be present in the Union' s external policy.
All of these concepts do, of course, underpin the work of the European Union during the sessions of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, and these are the principles that will inform our action in the forthcoming session, which will be held between 18 March and 26 April this year.
The Commission on Human Rights is, without a doubt, the greatest challenge that the European Union will have to face in the forthcoming months in the field of human rights.
This Commission, which - as everyone knows - is a body attached to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, meets every year in Geneva and is a forum for intense debate on all aspects of international current affairs that have some connection or relationship with human rights.
This is, then, an annual exercise, which is mandatory for us and which involves complex preparations and requires the European Union, year after year, to make a constant effort to undertake in the international context something that international society expects of the European Union, which it considers to be the bastion of the defence of these rights and that is the effective and increasingly universal protection of human rights.
It is no secret that the European Union plays a very active part in the Commission on Human Rights and that a large number of Member States of the European Union are members of the Commission (currently, Spain, Italy, Portugal, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Austria, Germany and Sweden).
Taking account of our quota in what is known as the 'Western European Group' , the European Union has, without any doubt, the largest allocation of places.
These positions are always based on our system of values.
This does not mean giving way on any of our principles, but often the positions within the Commission are the product of prior coordination to obtain tangible results, and there are some issues which, because of their sensitivity and the attention they are given by the media, warrant special treatment.
In any event, our objective, as in previous years, is to present a series of draft resolutions and statements by the presidency of the Commission on Human Rights, that cover the events to have taken place in the last year, from the close of the 57th session of that body, which was held in April 2001.
For this reason, the European Union feels that it is necessary to make speeches on highly sensitive issues in which our stance must be reflected in some way.
This year, these speeches, which have been prepared with the cooperation of our partners, will focus fundamentally on the following areas: racism, the right to development, the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in any part of the world, economic, social and cultural rights, civil and political rights and the rights of women to be fully integrated as well as the gender perspective, children' s rights, human rights lawyers and advice services, and technical cooperation in the field of human rights.
The list is extensive, but not exhaustive.
It illustrates the broad range of issues that we will have to address in the Commission on Human Rights, where the defence of these rights must be comprehensive and, naturally, is universal.
For this very reason, the activity generated by the Commission on Human Rights is linked to many other issues which, in one way or another, impact on the work of the European Union.
Secondly, as everyone can imagine, we are facing many challenges of a social and humanitarian nature, which we are determined to confront, together with our partners: all the issues of refugees and asylum-seekers, emigration and all its consequences in the cultural, educational and social spheres, the problem of discrimination against indigenous populations, the genuine progress and practical equality of women in all areas, and so many sectors, individual and collective, that are under scrutiny by the international community.
In the Council, we intend to make a very special effort to ensure that our participation is as active and constructive as possible, both at the General Assembly Special Session on Children - which was due to have taken place in September, but which was affected by the events of 11 September, and has been rescheduled, although without a specific date as yet - and at the World Assembly on Ageing, to take place in April of this year.
As you all know, last September a major world conference was held in Durban (South Africa), whose preparations and workings were not without controversy but at which, ultimately and fortunately, consensus was maintained, following long discussions and, to a large extent, as a result of the perseverance of the European Union delegation as a whole.
We are all aware that, despite the firm conviction in Europe that the death penalty should be totally eradicated and abolished, some countries belonging to cultural and religious tendencies other than our own continue to uphold and apply it.
I wish to conclude, Mr President, by offering a thought on the new situation that has arisen from 11 September.
I am echoing concerns that I have heard in this Parliament this very morning.
In the Presidency and in the Council we are very aware that in many countries a certain climate of concern has evolved over whether, in the quest to strengthen security and the fight against terrorist organisations, the protection of human rights might be substantially damaged.
We must not forget that the attacks of 11 September were an all-out attack on this system of values and freedoms, of which we are so proud, and which we all have an obligation to defend.
The Commission on Human rights will, without doubt, be an ideal setting in which to demonstrate our commitment to respect and protect human rights, to extend this commitment to every country in the world, without allowing the fight against terrorism to be used as a pretext for violating these rights, and to reaffirm that the protection of human rights continues to be as solid a principle as it always has been in the European Union.
Mr President, this debate provides the opportunity for an exchange of views prior to the deliberations of the 58th session of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
The Human Rights Contact Group has already brought together representatives of non-governmental organisations, Members of Parliament, civil servants from the EU institutions and others to discuss key concerns for Geneva.
As ever, when you invite the Commission to these annual debates, it comes at a time when the EU has not definitively decided upon the initiatives which it will take at the UNCHR and their final form will only be determined after negotiations on the ground in Geneva.
Second, the fight against terrorism, which has rightly permeated every corner of the political debate since 11 September.
The EU maintains the important distinction that states are the perpetrators of human rights violations, whilst terrorists are particularly abhorrent criminals.
The international community must also be alert to opportunistic attempts by states to justify domestic repression and crackdowns by claiming that they are "fighting terrorism".
Zimbabwe is the most clear example of this.
Combating racism, xenophobia and discrimination against minorities is one of the four priorities under the European initiative for democracy and human rights for the period 2002 to 2004.
EUR 17 million per year have been set aside in order to support NGOs and other organisations in the promotion of rights and awareness-raising as a concrete follow-up to the World Conference.
Finally, a word on two countries of particular interest, both to me and to this Parliament.
This is the only country with which the EU has a dedicated human rights dialogue.
The human rights situation in China rightly gives rise to a great deal of concern - from the extensive application of the death penalty to the suppression of religious and cultural rights in Tibet, Xinjiang and elsewhere and restrictions on the freedom of expression as evidenced in the recent measures on the use of the Internet.
In this difficult context, the EU dialogue and seminars - the last of which, in December 2001 brought together European and Chinese experts to discuss the prevention of torture and the right to education - are one conduit for encouragement, cooperation and criticism.
As the General Affairs Council has underscored, progress on the ground is a necessary corollary of the dialogue and that is why we evaluate the dialogue annually.
Second, in Iran, some progress in reform is offset by continuing serious human rights concerns.
The UN Special Representative on Iran highlighted this at the Third Committee last year, referring in particular to the sharp increase in public hangings and floggings.
The positive outcome for the EU resolution at the Third Committee shows that the international community shares our concerns.
The human rights organisation summed the situation up as follows: it is the foxes that are having to watch over the chicken' s eggs.
It is indeed suspicious that countries such as Kenya, Sudan, Togo and Congo, which do not have particularly good track records when it comes to respecting human rights, should chair this committee and help determine the standards.
The Council said that we boast a long tradition in Europe on human rights, but it must be recognised that sometimes we hesitate in condemning the human rights abuses carried out by our so-called friendly states.
I would urge that we must never hesitate; we must apply the same rules and standards regardless.
Double standards undermine our highest ethics and our aspirations for a world free from human rights abuses.
However, in relation to the Cotonou and Association Agreements, I would say that we must enact the human rights and democracy clauses when human rights abuses occur.
Pastor Niemller said: "When they came for the communists, I did not speak out because I was not a communist.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, the European Parliament has lofty ambitions in terms of human rights.
There is a broad agenda of issues that the EU must tackle in Geneva: violence against women, the situation of children, torture and the death penalty.
Year after year, we appeal for a resolution on China.
Secondly, Zimbabwe.
Mr President, the working environment of the UN Commission on Human Rights has been described as a sea of sorrows that knows no shores.
President Cox last stressed the major significance of human rights in the EU and the work of this Parliament this morning.
Undisturbed by commercial considerations and the songs of other such sirens, the EU must be able to allow its celebratory commitments to become a practical reality, and adopt an active position on difficult questions, such as China' s human rights violations with particular reference to the situation in Mongolia and in Tibet, or Russia' s behaviour, especially in Chechnya.
In this connection neither can we allow the fight against terrorism in any way to jeopardise human rights and the principle of the Rule of Law, or tolerate their abuse as just an excuse for perhaps otherwise questionable intervention.
I would also say to the Commission that I very much approve of these agreements which we draw up in relation to third countries and which have human rights clauses attached.
I just do not understand why observance of the agreements is not rather more strictly enforced, and I am thinking particularly in this context of Israel which has an agreement with the EU that is quite clearly not observed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the wonderful speech that Mr de Miguel has given, I believe that we can safely bet that the Council and the European Union will this year adopt, as they did last year and the year before that in Geneva, a scandalous, shameful, cowardly position, which, unfortunately, will not be the one that Parliament defends.
I think that we can be absolutely sure, that we can bet one hundred to one, that there will be no resolution on China, no resolution on Tibet, that there will be no support given to the European Union for resolutions on the situation of women in Saudi Arabia, that there will be no resolution or support from the Union for a resolution on Tunisia.
There will not be anything - like last year, although it is true that, last year, the European Union even came to an arrangement so that it would not have the United States to deal with this year.
This is how the situation of human rights really stands.
Mr President, the United Nations Human Rights Convention meets in Geneva every year, and every year the Chinese leadership puts pressure on its trading partners in order to prevent Peking's human rights violations getting on the agenda.
In his great October speech to this House, the Dalai Lama again expounded his concept of the middle way and urged Peking to take part in direct negotiations without preconditions.
Nothing, though, can justify the brutal treatment they mete out to religious and ethnic minorities in Tibet as well as in Inner Mongolia and in Eastern Turkestan.
Let us at last give substance and life to our commitment to uphold human rights absolutely.
We have to continue working to defend citizens' rights: the right to life, to democracy, to breathe clean air and to live in an environment in which economic and social rights are respected as an inseparable element of human rights.
If we want to achieve this goal we need to have more political ambition and a single, forceful and radical voice against those who violate human rights.
A voice that will be heard in Geneva and which makes us proud to be European.
Mr President, the United Nations Conference opens a week after the presidential elections in Zimbabwe.
The European Union has issued deadlines and ultimata.
We should thank President Mbeki and other African leaders for their work behind the scenes, but now is the time for them to speak out publicly and firmly against Mugabe's oppressive regime.
We must make sure that the conditions of our ultimata are met in full.
We must be sure that Mugabe will allow an EU team to observe the election process and the EU must be allowed to choose the make-up of that team, which should include British Members.
A genuine free press must be restored and recent media laws must be repealed.
By the same token, the world will judge the EU by its effectiveness, not by its rhetoric.
Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the honourable Members' speeches, and, in my opinion, the wide variety of concerns that have been expressed here today clearly shows the complexity of the extraordinary task that is facing us in coordinating the European Union' s action in the Human Rights Commission.
I assure you, Mr President, that the Council is fully committed to the defence of the values and principles that are inherent to our culture, civilisation and to the Community acquis.
The European Union and all of its countries that have a place on the Human Rights Commission are the bastion, the vanguard of the defence of these rights.
I would only ask Parliament to give us the necessary room for manoeuvre and confidence to defend these interests, which are our own, those of our culture and civilisation, and to do so as forcefully as possible, so that this can be made a reality in international society, which is, of course, very complex and which, unfortunately, the European Union cannot manage completely on its own.
It goes without saying that our contribution and our determination will never falter.
I can agree with practically everything that has been said in this debate.
What can be done in a given situation in a given case is part of the broader political progress or lack of progress made at any given time.
The reality is that we do not have a separate entity in international society in which we can discuss human rights only on their own merit.
It is always part of this discussion, especially when we talk about it internationally.
But the main priority is to actually do our work and not be marginalised by some tactical or political manoeuvre.
We are, of course, all aware that the Convention has to redefine the Union' s missions, its role on the world stage, in global development and in working for peace, its growth and cohesion policies and its policy of security in freedom and justice.
However, it would be a mistake to dismiss all the rest as pure institutional technicalities, as abstract exercises in institutional engineering of no interest whatsoever to the citizens.
To regain support, it is vital to make it absolutely clear who is taking the decisions in the Union, how the decisions can be made transparent and comprehensible and how they can be monitored, and by which institutions the citizens can be effectively represented in Europe.
All these points are questions precisely of democracy, indeed they are questions which are crucial to democracy.
Parliamentarisation must occur in two areas: the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
In particular, as a House of Lords report has regretfully shown, a second Chamber made up of members of national parliaments 'would be an unreal solution to some real problems' .
Mr President, as Mr Napolitano pointed out, the issue of relations between national parliaments and the European Parliament is one of the key issues on the agenda of the Convention that is about to begin its work.
In the capacity in which I am speaking today, however, I must limit myself to listing the objectives pursued in the opinion delivered by my Committee, which have been partially echoed in the motions for resolutions we are now discussing, specifically in Nos 13, 14 and 15.
With regard to external policy and common security, including defence, which, as is well known, remains essentially in the intergovernmental sphere, listing the issues is relatively simple: on the one hand, the European Parliament currently performs its supervisory role by means of the right to be informed and the right to be consulted conferred on it by Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union and by means of its budgetary powers to approve operational expenditure on civilian crisis management and on associated administrative tasks; on the other, national parliaments do not enjoy genuine participation in the drafting of such policy, although they do have decisive powers over the military expenditure of their respective countries, which then have a major influence on the operational resources made available to the CFSP.
The provisions of Title V of the Treaty on European Union require the Member States to observe the principles of coordination and mutual solidarity when defining and implementing the CFSP, so this democratic and parliamentary deficit must be corrected.
Within the current institutional framework, this conference would enable the various Parliaments to undertake their work more effectively in accordance with their respective competences.
What is more, however, with this proposal we are also giving form to the principle that both the European Parliament and the national parliaments represent the peoples of the European Union, since both are directly elected by the citizens and both provide full guarantees of the exercise of democracy.
There are few differences between the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and his report.
On the report itself, the recommendations of the Committee on Legal Affairs were largely adopted by the rapporteur in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
In paragraph 4, that reappears as paragraph 12 in the Napolitano report.
The Committee on Legal Affairs voted for it clearly and my own group has tabled some amendments.
Mr President, as colleagues know, today across Europe there is popular discontent with regard to Europe's apparent disconnection from ordinary life.
The conclusions of this report, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, echo a recently published report from the House of Lords in my own country.
They recognise the important role of national parliaments, but reject the argument for a further second chamber.
Rather than further encumbering the European political process, this report recognises that it is for the European Parliament in its sphere, and national parliaments in theirs, in accordance with their own national traditions, to scrutinise their own governments' conduct of European business and activities in the Council of Ministers.
The pedantic constitutional purist from any one Member State might cavil at some of the detail, but this report provides a template for action which cannot be carried out by any single parliament.
Changes must take place in a wider framework of change and democratic openness on all sides.
If political and democratic openness and acceptability matter - and no political group in this House believes in them more than we in the PPE-DE Group do - the Napolitano report represents an important starting point.
The legitimacy of democratic regimes is at stake.
Mr Napolitano, the rapporteur, is proposing a number of specific measures which have been approved by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and which could, in my view, easily receive the unanimous approval of the Convention.
Mr Napolitano quite rightly calls for the powers of the national parliament vis--vis their respective governments to be strengthened, prior to decisions being taken in the Council.
In some of our Member States, the procedure of influencing decisions is well organised.
The rapporteur, quite rightly, also rules out the idea of a second or even a third legislative chamber.
If this financial envelope must incorporate a new specific resource in the form of a European tax, I think it is essential that the representatives of the national parliaments deliberate it from the outset.
Mr President, the essential message of this splendid report, which the Liberal Group strongly supports, the central message really is that national parliaments could, and should, contribute more to the political system of the European Union.
What national parliaments must improve on doing is to scrutinise and check the executive power of the Council.
I trust the British government will listen to the debate on this question in the Convention and then withdraw its dangerous and obscurantist proposal.
It is an excellent report, explaining without ambiguity the national parliaments' tasks and role in the area of legitimising and monitoring national governments' legislative activities in the Council, in intergovernmental cooperation, where this monitoring function is not at all adequate, but also in the involvement of the national parliaments in the development of a European constitution, summed up in the word 'Convention' .
The commitment to parliamentary democracy is made at the European level.
Parliament should therefore give a serious but wary reception to certain announcements made in advance by the Convention's president-designate, who has for weeks, via the press rather than by direct contact, and without yet being confirmed in office by the Convention, been giving voice to ideas about this constituent assembly which bear little relation to what Parliament demands or to the development of European democracy and parliamentarianism.
I strongly appeal to this House to play its part in making the Convention a working, parliamentary and public convention and not, as it has been to date, a legitimising faade for the Council.
Mr President, the role of the national parliaments is admittedly laid down in the Treaties, but the democratic deficit, which is essentially a failure to monitor the relevant national government, has got greater as European integration has moved forward.
Moreover, if the European Parliament is to regain its political role, there will have to be an increase not only in the quality of the debates but also in MEPs' attendance in Brussels and Strasbourg.
Mr President, Commissioner, since the outset, Europe - well, what we call Europe in actual fact means the quasi-State, which passes legislation in Brussels and occasionally in Strasbourg, which hands down justice in Luxembourg and which produces currency in Frankfurt - is desperately seeking some legitimacy, a lack of which means its existence is in question.
The report by Chairman Napolitano, whom I would like thank, seeks the answer to this existential question that we occasionally deliberate (and that we could term 'democratic remorse' ) in a sort of hybrid parliamentarisation, a risky experiment where the national parliaments and the European Parliament bargain between them in a sort of democratic no man' s land that is both vague and opaque.
Mr President, the Napolitano report on relations between the European Parliament and the national parliaments is based on the fair observation that there is a serious imbalance in the European Union between the executive bodies that have extensive jurisdiction and a parliamentary power that is still too weak.
Although Mr Napolitano has shown some openness in relation to the traditional positions of the European Parliament, I do not think that his report has yet reached the correct balance in its demands for the extension of the powers of the House, and that it confines the national parliaments to an indirect and, in most cases, illusory role, by placing everything under the vague term of 'parliamentarisation' .
The report does not mention that the European Parliament is merely an assembly with implementing powers and that the national parliaments alone have full sovereignty.
On a more serious note, it does not mention that this legal inequality is increased two-fold by unequal political legitimacy in the eyes of the citizens.
That is why I added a minority opinion to the Napolitano report in order to explain that there will not be any true democratisation of the Union unless we reassess the value of the national parliaments, and unless they acquire direct power in the European decision-making process.
This report starts by making it very clear that the European Parliament and the national parliaments, in their own contexts, fully represent the peoples of the European Union who are, Mr Berthu, sovereign peoples, as stated, amongst other things, in their constitutions for more than a century.
In this regard, I would like to thank Mr Napolitano for accepting my amendment, with which I wanted to highlight this extreme situation, which is almost always invoked by those who want to strengthen a particular institution at the expense of others.
European citizens need a European Parliament, in the same way that they need their national parliaments, and the relationship between these should not be based on rivalry but on cooperation.
The report not only reaffirms the need for this cooperation, but also, in my opinion, very realistically calls for it to be organised through an interparliamentary agreement in order to make better use of resources.
It deals with improving the exchange of information and avoiding overlapping between various activities for cooperation.
It also recognises the competences of the national parliaments, not only with regard to the governments of the Member States, but in the application of Community Law.
If the gap between the institutions and our citizens gets any wider, the time will come, sooner rather than later, when they turn their backs on us.
The role of the national parliaments is predicated on the philosophy that the European Union is a union of states and a union of nations.
The involvement of the national parliaments in the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers must be visible, subject to control and sanctioned by the national parliaments.
It is the national parliaments which will keep their citizens in touch with developments in the European Union and make them feel that they are European citizens.
And even if the proposals made by the Convention will not be legally binding on the next Intergovernmental Conference, its democratic credentials will be such that they will be hard to ignore.
Upgrading the role of the national parliaments in giving credence to European decisions will strengthen the procedure in question; at the same time, however, it honours the role of the nation states as the legal and cultural expression of their people in this exciting unifying structure.
It is true, Mr President, that involving the national parliaments in the European structure does not imply new institutions, it implies increasing their powers of control and information vis--vis their own people.
If those responsible for national parliamentary work are not interested in organising this sort of debate, I fear that our debate here will be of limited interest.
Mr President, among the four Post-Nice topics, I consider the role of the national parliaments particularly important because it can prepare a way into the hearts of Europe's citizens.
We will only succeed in this, though, if we can get the public to understand that what is happening in Europe is not just any old thing, but that their future is affected, in real terms, by whether those to whom they have given a mandate can share in decisions about the future and whether their national parliaments can resist it when the EU oversteps the bounds of its competence.
It is an unfortunate fact that the competences ceded by the national parliaments to Europe have not all as yet arrived at the European Parliament, the only European institution to be legitimised by elections.
Parliament's two great groups are very much as one in this demand, and I am grateful to our group's Mr Gil Robles for his contribution to the Napolitano report, and to our rapporteur for his Amendment No 21.
The national parliaments can and must monitor their national governments better and more effectively than before.
In conclusion, I can only say that we are grateful for the report and hope that it will also be taken seriously by the Convention.
Mr President, the Napolitano Report does indeed take us one important step towards greater clarity in this debate on the role of the parliaments in the EU, and thus also a step towards greater democracy in it.
Our objective is, in my judgement, the creation of a parliamentary democracy in the European Union.
I thank Mr Napolitano for bringing clarity with his report and also for achieving, in the hearings we have had here, greater understanding between the parliaments.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Napolitano on his report.
The issue of relations between the national Parliaments and the European Parliament is one of the central issues of the European debate and will be one of the key aspects of the work of the Convention and it is absolutely crucial that, apart from any delays that might occur and the normal diversity of opinions, this House addresses the issue calmly and intelligently.
At this stage on the path we have been following together for many years and which we wish to continue to follow with equal commitment on many others, we have an obligation to understand, not to shirk and to claim a special responsibility that comes from the fact that we, the members of the national and European parliaments, are the representatives elected directly by the citizens.
It is, therefore, crucial that we move towards the national Parliaments and the European Parliament having greater participation and control, both in drafting legislative decisions and in establishing the political guidelines of the European Union.
As this report clearly acknowledges, none of these parliamentary institutions has exclusive rights to represent Europe' s citizens.
To conclude, the assessment and the ways forward indicated in this report offer good prospects for the joint work that we will be undertaking in the Convention being able to make this new Europe more democratic, easier to understand and closer to all European citizens.
Mr President, our new President, Pat Cox, has called on us to show understanding for each other in debate if possible.
My final point is that that it is remarkable that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not entered any objection to item 17 of the report.
That shows that there is something we agree on.
But the amendments tabled by the Greens, which one feels are about regional institutions as much as national parliaments, merit your consideration and, in my view, your vote as well.
Paragraph 1 of the resolution is explicit on this score.
National parliaments must guide their Ministers in the Council.
Competence in the legislative and budgetary fields, and in the area of national control, belongs to national parliaments.
In the supranational context, these competences can only be exercised by a supranational parliament, whatever structure the Convention or the next Intergovernmental Conference may give to this body.
There is another, much more subtle, way of eroding parliamentary power, which we are now considering, the so-called open method of coordination that is commitology, which is used, for example, in the Lamfalussy report, with few opportunities for parliamentary control, self-regulation or co-regulation.
I believe that this is an issue that the Napolitano report has also highlighted and to which we should give our full attention.
The competences of the European Parliament, logically, in the field of control and legislation on Community affairs, and the national parliaments in the field of control of their own governments.
This control is certainly absent in many Member States and this is a hindrance to the participation of the national parliaments in active control and in the proposal of European issues in each State.
But there is also another issue: in the debate on the Convention on the future of Europe, I believe that the role of the autonomous communities with legislative powers should also be discussed, in order to produce a coherent and constructive definition of their role within the Union, with the aim, amongst other things, of bringing the process of European integration closer to its citizens and increasing its efficiency.
However, I do not feel that it is appropriate to address this issue now in the context of a report which is expressly dedicated to the roles of national parliaments and Member States.
In any case, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as well as your rapporteur, I hereby undertake to ensure that this issue is addressed specifically in an appropriate manner.
Mr Napolitano, I would like to thank you and congratulate you on behalf of the Commission.
In this respect, through the question of national parliaments and through the delimitation of competences on which your fellow Member, Mr Lamassoure, is working, it is essentially the problem of subsidiarity which is raised and this will be one of the key issues for the Convention to deal with via the constitutional process that will be launched in a few days' time.
I can testify, as several of you can too, I am sure, to feeling a sense of helplessness as a national politician, when faced with so many texts from Brussels, which are merely to be implemented rather than discussed.
Due to this feeling of fait accompli, the frustration of national politicians - a word that one of you used - is not only directed at the Commission, but also at the Council and the European Parliament.
Parliament' s desire, as you stressed, Mr Napolitano, to embark upon a new stage in its relations with the national parliaments, is demonstrated by what I would call significant and courageous action.
This action has been apparent, for some time already, through the active role that the House plays within COSAC, in the many formal and informal contacts between MEPs and national politicians - I can testify to this during the preparation of the Treaty of Nice - and in increased administrative cooperation.
The Commission is naturally in favour of this new phase, because it is aware of the contribution that the national parliaments can make to the Union' s integration.
The further we move forward with integration - and we hope that it does progress, in the sensitive areas of national sovereignty, and particularly the second and third pillars - the more pressing the question of the legitimacy of the whole system will be.
From an objective point of view, there is, for example, a shared interest in having better control of what happens under the third pillar, which is of so much interest to the citizens, and this control could be strengthened by the communitarisation that both the Commission and Parliament desire.
First of all, it must not bring their legitimacies into conflict, as universal suffrage runs through European integration in several ways; in a direct way for this House and in an indirect way for the Council and the European Council.
Then, it must take into account the division of powers which is specific to each State, as well as the prerogatives and the requirements of each individual country' s national parliament.
You are reflecting on how to better involve the national parliaments.
However, ladies and gentlemen, although no one is questioning the importance or the nature of the contribution of the national parliaments, there is - at least, not yet - no consensus on the form that this could take.
We now know that we may have two options: either indirectly, by improving the prerogatives of each national parliament in each of the Member States, or directly, by introducing new procedures to enable the national parliaments to intervene more directly in the European decision-making process.
On the other hand, it can state its interest in favour of disseminating all the good practices - and we are well aware that some practices in some Member States are better than in others - in terms of information and consultation.
The Commission can state whether it is willing to examine amending the protocol to the Treaty of Amsterdam, in order to take into account these good practices.
The European option is more direct and certainly the more difficult to take, because, at the moment, the national parliaments themselves do not agree on specific issues.
However, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to consider the more direct European option when we discuss, for example, the clarification of legislative tasks of the Council, or when we assess the experiments which have already been carried out collectively as part of the work with the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
For its part, and like the House, the Commission does not support the idea of a new chamber, which would, in reality, be a third chamber.
To sum up, and as you put it so well, Mr Napolitano, the Convention, which has not yet begun, will deal, in particular, with this key question, which is the subject of your report.
Some subjects may therefore be raised immediately and, although I do not imagine that we will issue a specific opinion on subjects as closely related to the institutional autonomy of each Member State, Mr Vitorino and myself, who will represent the Commission at the Convention, would like to say that we are ready and willing to provide our ideas and our support to this in-depth examination.
Ladies and gentlemen, almost all of you have mentioned the Convention, which will take up a great deal of our attention as of 28 February.
Be that as it may, I repeat, one of the key issues that will determine the success of the Convention, to bring it up to the highest possible level of ambition, will be our common ability to convince, to lead, to work openly with the national parliaments and from this perspective, Mr Napolitano, I believe that your report is not only courageous but that it will also be very useful.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to thank everyone for their active involvement in preparing this report.
The subject gave rise to some lively debate in committee and there were some good amendments to the report.
I am delighted that the committee was in full agreement with the main aims of my report.
The purpose of this report is to analyse the problems of practical implementation and put forward proposals on how the operation of the Structural Funds might be improved within the framework of the existing rules and what facts should be taken into account in preparing the next reform.
The Court of Auditors has also criticised the complicated practices associated with the Structural Funds and called for simplification and better results, and this has also been the Commission' s aim, although there is still much to be done regarding this both by the Commission and the Member States.
The second conclusion of the report was that programmes should not take so long to get started.
The new programming period has got off the ground very slowly, with programmes taking as much as two years to be approved.
In this way there would be more preparation time for both the Commission and the regions and the sort of delays that are occurring at present would not arise as we move into the next programming period.
The Commission should review and clarify the rules for compliance with additionality so that this principle would also apply at programme and regional level.
The Commission should produce the necessary background information and reports in a clear form so that the committee and Parliament can use them effectively.
My colleagues also tabled amendments regarding the content, which in themselves were worthy of support, but fell outside the scope of this report.
Furthermore, national economic policies must never neglect the objectives of economic and social cohesion at domestic level, and I would want them to be coherent and not contradict these objectives.
The principle of subsidiarity must never be used as an instrument with which to attempt to drain the financial resources of the European Union' s economic and social cohesion policy.
What this principle requires instead is an effective policy, at European level, of economic and social cohesion, and it also calls for an improvement in the resources allocated to this genuine pillar of European integration, in light of the challenge posed by enlargement and by the drastic increase in the consequent regional asymmetries.
Let us not forget that countries such as the United States of America allocate more resources to redistribution policies than the European Union.
Mr President, to sum up, I say 'yes' to greater decentralisation of the management of the Structural Funds; but 'yes' also to maintaining and improving the essential functions of the European Union' s economic and social cohesion policy, which are the redistribution of resources and the promotion of development in its least-favoured regions.
This is an own-initiative report by Parliament in which we are attempting to introduce new ideas that will improve the management of the Structural Funds at a crucial time for both the European Union as a whole and for the future of this Fund.
The room for manoeuvre and involvement of this Parliament when the Commission presents its reports is practically zero.
Therefore, we believe that it is time to give both the Funds, on the one hand, and Parliament on the other, a greater political role to play.
Flexibility is, without a doubt, a factor that will increase the real impact of the Structural Funds on society and on the greater cohesion that we are all looking for.
We need to introduce new measures for the assessment of these Funds and more socioeconomic parameters, good practices, greater visibility and, of course, better monitoring of the principle of additionality.
We believe that initiatives such as this, which will hopefully be approved in tomorrow' s vote, will bring new ideas that will improve the management of the Structural Funds and regional policy as a whole.
General simplification is, of course, a laudable objective, but it must not automatically lead to large projects being favoured; only the good projects and those which are useful in terms of development and that are economically viable should be favoured.
The second comment relates to the political will to increase the involvement of Member States and their local and regional authorities in monitoring, but also, prior to this, in drawing up programmes, because we must bear in mind and remember that the most appropriate level from which to properly judge a project is the level that is closest to the person responsible for its initiation.
I cannot conclude without giving my thoughts on paragraph 12 of the report.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report before us clearly shows that, now as ever, the management of structural policy is deficient in various respects and, above all, that there is much room for improvement in it.
Question No 1 by (H-0950/01): Subject: Inhuman conditions in Egyptian prisons Since 1989, Costas Kastanias has been serving a life sentence with hard labour in maximum security prisons in Egypt in connection with the case of the motor boat, the 'Thanasis'.
I am also very pleased to be able, on behalf of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, to participate in Question Time in the European Parliament, and furthermore in a parliament which has such a dignified President.
There also appears to be a bilateral agreement between Egypt and Greece on the exchange of prisoners, which aims to enable prisoners to complete their sentence in their country of origin.
The Council knows that conditions in Egyptian prisons can be harsh.
Spain also knows this to be true, for its own part and as a Member State of the European Union, because it also has problems with Spanish prisoners in Egyptian prisons.
The Association Agreement, which was signed on 25 June 2001 in Luxembourg, and which has still not entered into force because some of the ratification instruments have yet to be put in place, establishes respect for human rights as one of its essential features.
Therefore, I think that it is a good time to call upon Member States to ensure that this and other Mediterranean agreements that are awaiting ratification are ratified as soon as possible.
My question is an SS.
I call on the Minister, on behalf of this prisoner suffering a living death and on behalf of any Spaniards or other Community citizens, to intervene politically with the Egyptian authorities so that they can serve out their sentences in prisons in the Member States of the European Union.
The author of this question takes the view that the essential cooperation between the EU and the USA in the fight against terrorism must be based scrupulously on observation of the basic principles and values of a constitutional state.
The Council would remind honourable Members that in item 2 of the conclusions of the Action Plan from the extraordinary European Council of 21 September, the European Council calls for the implementation, as soon as possible, of all the international agreements in force in the fight against terrorism, that is to say, all those produced by the United Nations, the OECD and other international organisations.
The European Union supports the Indian proposal for drawing up, within the United Nations, a general convention against international terrorism, which should enhance the impact of the measures taken over the last 25 years under the auspices of the UN.
Within the context of its own programme, the Presidency considered it vitally important to create a common area in which the fight against any form of crime, and its more serious forms in particular, such as terrorism, the trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and money laundering, is undertaken with criteria for regulation and by means of common activities in which all Member States should participate.
In this context, the Presidency proposes that objectives as important as the European arrest warrant and the abolition of formal extradition procedures should be defined.
The Presidency also thinks that strengthening relations between the European Union and the United States is highly important and a matter of priority, specifically within the framework of judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the fight against terrorism.
The Council would like to take this opportunity to state that the question of the status of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must be resolved within the framework of the debate on the future of the Union.
The European Council, at its meeting in Laeken on 14 and 15 December 2001, entrusted a Convention with the task of responding to any issues that might arise during this debate, especially with regard to whether the Charter of Fundamental Rights should be integrated into the basic Treaty and to the issue of the European Community' s signing up to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
Without prejudging the answer to this question, the Council would like, all the same, to remind you that Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union states that "the Union will respect fundamental freedoms in compliance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Rome on 4 November 1950" .
However, Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as deduced from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, allows it to be established that no-one can be removed, expelled or extradited to a State in which they could be subject to the death penalty, to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
We are also aware that the Convention will deal with the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the future European Constitution, but the Charter was also proclaimed by the Nice European Council and I believe that a proclamation is politically binding on those who proclaim it.
And certainly, with regard to the abolition of the death penalty, we also said, in a debate that took place right here in Parliament very recently on the position of the European Union in the Human Rights Commission, that one of the main standpoints of the Delegation from the European Union and its Member States in the Human Rights Commission is precisely to fight for the abolition of the death penalty in every country in the world, regardless of religion, culture, etc.
As the author is not present, Question No 3 lapses.
Question No 4 by (H-0958/01): Subject: Revision of the common position on Cuba At its meeting in Brussels on 6 and 7 December 2001 the ACP Council of Ministers adopted a resolution which reads as follows: 'The ACP Council of Ministers...2.
Calls on the European Union to translate this spirit [the entente which emerged during the recent (30 November) visit by the Community troika, as acknowledged in the first paragraph of the resolution] into a substantive revision of its common position on Cuba so as to treat Cuba in a fair and impartial manner; 3.
The European Parliament is well aware of the dialogue between the European Union and Cuba, which was interrupted by the Cuban authorities when they cancelled the meeting with the EU troika that was scheduled for April 2000.
The dialogue resumed on 1 and 2 December 2001 with the visit of the troika to Havana.
The resumption of dialogue is the result of a great deal of hard work by the Presidency, and on which the Council fully informed this House, in its November and December part-sessions in particular.
The Council announced that it was ready to look into the matter once Cuba had officially put forward its application in accordance with the provisions laid down in the agreement.
On 10 and 11 December, the General Affairs Council carried out its tenth evaluation of the EU Common Position on Cuba and considered that it would continue to be valid, and was the basis for European Union policy on Cuba.
The Council also reiterated that EU objectives with regard to Cuba would still consist of promoting the transition to democratic pluralism and the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable economic recovery and an improvement in the standard of living of the Cuban people.
After a detailed study and various exchanges of information, the Council also noted serious shortcomings in the recognition and implementation of civil and political liberties, as well as the Cuban authorities' refusal to consider the possibility of introducing reforms that would result in a political system based on these values.
Where it is not possible to abolish the death penalty, we need to at least reach at a situation in which it is not applied, as well as a considerable reduction in the number of political prisoners and an increase in the number of ratifications of United Nations Human Rights instruments.
The Council was also pleased with the Cuban Government' s decision to agree to sign up to all United Nations Conventions against terrorism, adopted at the sitting of 4 October.
The Council also noted the importance that the European Union attaches to Cuba' s acceptance of the principles included in the United Nations Pact on Civil and Political Liberties and also of the agreement on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and expresses its wish for Cuba to sign both Pacts as soon as possible.
Finally, I think it is important to point out that in the context of the tenth evaluation of the EU Common Position on Cuba, the German delegation made a statement in which it approves the Council' s conclusions, but calls on the Commission to produce a framework for cooperation that will be effective in the short term.
The Council intends to evaluate its common position on Cuba within the next six months in light of developments during this period.
We would like to once again express our friendship and personal respect for the President-in-Office of the Council, but I have to say that we think it was a mistake to ratify the common position.
Thank you and, once again, welcome, Mr de Miguel.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Miguel ngel Martnez and myself, who have both been in politics since 1977, have discussed these matters a great deal and I would like to make one or two comments.
Question No 5 by (H-0959/01): Subject: Spanish Presidency and the subhuman situation of women in Afghanistan What action is to be taken by the Spanish Presidency in order to improve the subhuman situation of women in Afghanistan?
Mr President, the Spanish Presidency is going to continue with the current Union policy, which is aimed at systematically improving the human rights situation in Afghanistan, particularly in relation to Afghan women.
During the ministerial conference on the reconstruction of Afghanistan which took place recently in Tokyo - on 20 and 22 January - the Presidency of the European Commission, in its capacity as co-presidents of the Union in the steering group for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, set out the Union' s position to the other international donors and the provisional Afghan authority.
In this same context, the Council would also cite the reply given to oral question H-0897/2001.
The case she mentions is but one more on the list of horrors and suffering experienced by many human beings in Afghanistan, children and adults, men and women.
And the Union' s policy on all these issues has therefore been, and will always be, the same.
Mr President, I would like to underline, in my capacity as a member of the Committee on Budgets, that Europe is meant not just to be a payer, but also, and in particular, a player.
But other members of the international community have also contributed.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, during the Taliban presence in Afghanistan, and before that, the situation of women has been horrendous.
Parliament therefore believes that the Spanish Presidency of the Union could do something more, create some special support programme for these women who have suffered particular marginalisation, because the current situation in Afghanistan cannot in reality be compared with the reconstruction of other war-torn countries.
I am not currently in a position to give you any details but naturally I will communicate the concern expressed here in the European Parliament to the Commission, so that the funds may be dedicated in particular to programmes aimed directly at recovering the role of Afghan women in society.
Question No 6 by (H-0963/01): Subject: Presence of regional governments at Council meetings The federal, regional or decentralised structure in a number of Member States has led them to include representatives of those regions or Lnder in their delegations for meetings of the Council of Ministers, as provided for by the Treaty of European Union since the Maastricht reform ten years ago.
The Council would remind the honourable Member that Article 203 of the Treaty establishing the European Community lays down that the Council will consist of a representative of each Member State, of Ministerial rank, empowered to make commitments on behalf of that Member State.
In accordance with this provision, it is the exclusive competence of each State to decide how it is to be represented in the meetings of the Council and who is going to be included in its delegation.
This decision will inevitably depend on national constitutional agreements which differ between one Member State and another, because each Member State has its own Constitution and its own territorial organisation.
Consequently, the Council cannot comment on decisions taken individually by a Member State in relation to representation.
Mr President, nothing could be more true than what the representative of the Council has just pointed out: each Member State clearly has the power to decide the composition of its delegation at each Council meeting.
Nevertheless, I believe that when, in these Council meetings, the national delegation does not include representatives of the regional governments which have exclusive competence, it creates distancing between the Community and the citizens, on the one hand, and its representatives on the other.
In certain Member States, such as mine, the regions, the Autonomous Communities, are as much States as the central governments, as laid down in the Constitution.
The President of my region, Galicia, is strongly in favour of this regional participation.
Mrs Migulez Ramos, I cannot agree with your assertion that the regions are as much States as the States of the Union, because the latter are the only members of the Union and the only ones that have the right to participate in the Council of Ministers.
That concession of competences varies from one State to another and, furthermore, they vary greatly in many countries.
Even in the case of countries which have made significant concessions of competences, such as Germany, Austria or Spain, the systems are completely different.
You cannot compare the German federal system with the Spanish system of Autonomous Communities.
I have already said that the essential thing is to strengthen the system of internal cooperation.
I believe that this must be the objective of all the governments of the Union: to have increasingly intense internal cooperation with the territorial communities, above all with those with legislative powers.
Indeed, Scottish ministers sometimes attend and even represent the United Kingdom at Council meetings.
It will include representatives from the governments, from national parliaments, from the European Parliament and from the Commission.
Nothing is preventing any country from including within their parliamentary or governmental delegation people who are particularly concerned with the problems of the regions.
Neither the Presidency nor the Council intend to dictate the debate within the Convention.
All issues relating to the regions may be dealt with within the Convention and the latter will make what it feels are the appropriate recommendations to the Intergovernmental Conference on the importance of the role of the regions in the Union' s decision-making process.
I have Question No 13 which is practically identical to No 6, and I would have liked you, as on other occasions, to have combined questions so that we do not have to debate the same issue twice.
I do not know if there is still time for you to allow me to put Question No 13.
We are going to wait until Question No 13 arrives - I am going to make an effort - so that you, even though it may be a reiteration, can ask it.
I wondered how other regional governments work in this connection and whether such a list would be available to colleagues.
In my capacity as President for this sitting and guardian of the Rules of Procedure, I am not going to allow more than the permitted two questions, because that would set a dreadful precedent and deprive the other Members, who have Questions Nos 13 or 14, of being able to speak.
Question No 7 by (H-0966/01): Subject: Unacceptable decision to refuse to issue visas to members of FARC-EP At the Laeken Council it was decided that the EU Member States would refuse to issue visas to representatives of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC-EP).
This decision is a serious new violation of international law and democratic freedoms, since it is directed against a large popular movement in Colombia which has considerable support not only inside the country but also abroad, including in many EU Member States, because of its long-standing struggle for a political settlement to the conflict in Colombia, democratic agricultural reform, democratic and trade-union freedoms and an end to the death squads' reign of terror.
In view of the fact that the representatives of FARC-EP are participating alongside official Colombian Government representatives in the peace process, which enjoys the support of the EU, can the Council say whether this decision has anything to do with the recent 'law to combat terrorism' and whether it intends to reconsider this antidemocratic decision and to back the process to achieve peace based on a political solution in Colombia?
The decision referred to by the Member who asked the question was not taken at the European Council in Laeken, which did not deal with the situation in Colombia, but appears in the declaration of the Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, in relation to the peace process in Colombia of 7 December.
In it, the European Union indicates that, until further orders, the Member States of the Union will not issue new visas or residency permits to representatives of armed groups, not only of FARC, but all armed groups, without prejudice to the continuation of the efforts of the Member States of the Union which are participating in the dialogue between the Colombian parties.
The European Union has also expressed its support for the efforts of the Member States of the Union which, on the request of the Colombian Government and the parties in conflict, are taking part in the talks which the President, Andrs Pastrana, has entered into with the ELN and FARC in order to reach a negotiated solution to the conflict.
The European Union insists that its position in relation to the armed groups in Colombia will be studied and reviewed in accordance with respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and diplomatic immunity.
The European Union unreservedly supports the efforts to encourage all the parties involved to respect human rights and international humanitarian law, and calls on all of them to condemn the violations of them.
The European Union has also urged FARC to return to the negotiating table in order, amongst other things, to deal with the issues agreed in San Francisco de la Sombra in October 2001.
It is pleased at the resumption of the dialogue between the government and the ELN, and hopes that these two movements will show signs of their determination to seek concrete results aimed at a lasting and peaceful solution to the conflict.
As this Parliament knows, the peace process in Colombia is at an uncertain stage.
The European Union is still actively supporting the peace process and the laudable efforts of President Pastrana and considers that there is no alternative to a negotiated solution to the internal conflict.
The European Union will make an effort to apply the autonomous commitments adopted within the framework of the European support programme for the peace process in Colombia, provided that security problems do not prevent it.
In other words, the two parties involved, the government and FARC, have pursued the negotiating process and FARC has made a considerable effort to find a solution to the problem.
I believe that in my reply I gave a full explanation of the Council' s position and our firm position on not issuing visas to FARC, since we do not believe that they are used for making contacts relating to peace, but for other activities.
Question No 8 by (H-0967/01): Subject: Arrests of demonstrators and police brutality during demonstrations on 14 and 15 December During the unprecedentedly large-scale demonstrations in Brussels on the occasion of the European Council Summit at Laeken, on 14 and 15 December, the police violently and provocatively charged peaceful demonstrators and even mere bystanders.
Article 33 of the European Union Treaty clearly stresses that individual measures adopted by police authorities are the sole competence of the relevant Member States.
The fact that demonstrations take place at the same time as a sitting of the European Council is completely irrelevant in this case.
I realise that it was hard to tell when the Belgian Government was acting in its capacity of President of the European Union and when it was simply acting as a Member State, but I would like to know what really happened and why all these measures were adopted despite being condemned by various speakers as breaching the rights of citizens who were demonstrating peacefully in Belgium during the last summit.
The Council has urged the government to prevent more members of Laskar Jihad from reaching Malaca and central Sulawesi and ensure that those who are already there leave those areas.
There is still work to do and the Council will continue to take advantage of the cooperation and frank dialogue it has established with the Indonesian Government on these issues to work for an improvement in the situation.
Naturally, the Laskar Jihad organisation can be classed as an organisation of this type.
You ask me whether the European Union and the United States should cooperate.
I believe that this cooperation is at the heart of all the political declarations made since 11 September.
The European Union and the United States now have a common front in the fight against terrorist threats in any part of the world where they may take place and we are holding dialogue with the United States precisely in order to help Indonesia to contain the threat posed by this terrorist organisation.
According to Sharia law a married or divorced woman is guilty of adultery if she has sexual intercourse with another man, even if, as in this case, she is the victim of rape.
The European Union has already expressed its concern at sentences passed in accordance with Islamic criminal law, the Sharia, during the 57th sitting of the UN Human Rights Commission in 2001.
The Member States of the Union and the European Commission - in coordination - have decisively supported international efforts in favour of Safia Husaini, in accordance with the meeting organised by the European Union' s Heads of Mission in Abuja on 23 January.
The Spanish Presidency proposed to the Member States that we make a representation to the Nigerian Foreign Affairs Minister, in order to express the European Union' s new position in the field of the application of the death penalty.
With regard to the broader issue of respect for fundamental rights and specifically women' s rights in Nigeria and the rest of Africa, the Council is determined to pursue the policy which it has long been implementing in this field and, in particular, by means of the following instruments: the Cotonou Agreement, Article 9(2) which lays down the parties' obligations, their international commitments, in relation to the respect for human rights, and reaffirms the equality between men and women, the Cairo declaration and action plan approved at the Africa-Europe Summit held in Cairo in April 2000, which insists on respect for human rights, the Common Position relating to human rights, democratic principles, the Rule of Law and good government in Africa 98/350/PESC and Council Regulation (EC) 965/99, which establishes the requirements for the application of Community development cooperation actions which contribute to achieving the general objective of development and consolidating democracy under the Rule of Law, as well as respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and specifically Common Position 01/373/PESC on Nigeria, which expressly mentions the respect for human rights.
Thank you, Mr President, for your comprehensive response to our question.
The events of recent days compel us, however, to call for a further Council initiative, for, as you will know, not only has another woman, in addition to Safiya Yakubu Hussaini, been sentenced to death by stoning - Aishatu Abubakar, whom the same court in the same region of Nigeria condemned to a similar sentence on similar grounds a few weeks ago - but the news has arrived today that, in the Sudan, a young 18-year old Christian woman named Abok Alfa Akok, who does not speak Arabic, has also been sentenced to stoning by what is, in this case, a civil, not a religious court, without being permitted a defence and without being given a linguistic translation either.
I therefore place in your hands these two new cases as well as that of Safiya.
I fully agree with you that the Council must continuously monitor all these humanitarian cases which affect individuals and countries with which the European Union has a preferential relationship by means of the Cotonou Agreements, in this case Sudan and Nigeria.
The latter penalty was even supported by Prime Minister Karzai in a statement made at a press interview in America.
In fact, our aid to Afghanistan, for the development of the country, and the payment of the significant sums you have mentioned, which were laid down at the Tokyo Summit, are conditional from the outset, according to the Council' s declarations, upon respect for human rights in Afghanistan and in particular the application of equal treatment between men and women.
I believe that in the case you have mentioned, the European Union must state that, although we respect the traditions and the religion of Afghanistan, we also demand that human rights be respected in that country.
Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that it is common practice in all Islamic countries to apply the Sharia, the Islamic law.
It would take a very long time to list all the cases of application of Islamic sentences in other countries of the Middle East which there are genuine violations of human rights and in particular the rights of women.
I believe that the European Union must be a pioneer in terms of defending these rights, but we must take the necessary precautions not to offend religious feelings since, as you know, there is currently a debate about the clash between the Islamic and Christian civilisations and we need to apply the necessary prudence.
Question No 11 by (H-0971/01): Subject: Turkish ban on the foundation and operation of parties with the word 'communist' in their name Human and democratic rights are systematically and persistently violated in Turkey, a country which is a candidate for membership of the EU.
One such instance is the ban on the foundation and operation of parties with the word 'communist' in their name based on the antiquated provisions of Article 96 of the Law on political parties, which dates from 1920.
In fact, Turkey is drawing up a draft amendment of the law on political parties.
However, the truth is that we do not know the exact content of this draft law because it has yet to be submitted to the Turkish Government.
In terms of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Turkey more generally, the Laeken European Council concluded that Turkey had made progress towards complying with the criteria set for accession, particular by recently amending its Constitution, and that there was therefore now more possibility of opening accession negotiations with that country.
The Council is closely monitoring the efforts for institutional political reform currently being made by Turkey and is especially focussing on whether those reforms will lead to real improvements in relation to human rights and fundamental freedoms in that country.
The Council will be sure to question Turkey in the event that the intended amendment of the law on political parties in any way threatens democratic freedoms.
I also find it hard to understand why the Council does not know that members of the Communist Party of Turkey are being prosecuted, given that 150 members have been arrested and their offices have been raided, all from the day it opened for business.
The Commission has taken no initiative in this area in relation to the Council.
In it contacts with third countries, the Presidency will raise all the issues it considers important and appropriate to deal with.
If the members of the high level group on disabilities convened by the Commission are all members of the Council, it is within his power to do that if he wishes.
This does not mean that the Council is unaware of the problems of disabled people or the coming events and international meetings on the disabled in which Member States and the European Union itself will have to adopt a position.
I have suggested that you address this question to the Commission, which, since it leads the high level group on the disabled, will be in a better position than me to give you a concrete answer.
Indeed, in many areas of disability rights Spanish law is a model that other Member States could usefully follow with regard to integration, access and equal treatment.
I simply want to reply to the honourable Member that I have taken good note of his suggestions to the Presidency and that we will always be prepared to contribute to the European Union taking on an increasingly active role in relation to disabled people and, in particular, in relation to the United Nations Convention on disability.
Question No 13 by (H-0005/02): Subject: Appearances before the European Parliament and involvement in its business on the part of Spanish ministers during the Spanish Presidency The year 2002 has just begun and Spain has taken over the rotating EU Presidency.
The Council would remind Mr Ortuondo that Article 203 of the Treaty establishing the European Union lays down that "The Council shall consist of a representative of each Member State at ministerial level, authorised to commit the government of that Member State" .
Apart from this provision, it falls to each Member State to decide the composition of its representation and, therefore, it falls to the Presidency to establish, in its capacity as such, how it will be represented in its appearances and parliamentary acts.
This decision will inevitably depend partly on national constitutional provisions, which differ from one Member State to another.
It therefore follows that the Council cannot make any comment on the decisions taken by the Presidency in relation to its representation, and in particular, to the contacts it maintains with the European Parliament.
I would like to point out that Article 203 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities speaks of 'ministerial rank' and, both in the meetings of the Councils of Ministers and during the Presidency, there is quite naturally participation by representatives of the Belgian regions or autonomous communities, or whatever you want to call them, and also - as the MEP who spoke about this said earlier - the region or nation of Scotland, the German Lnder or the Austrian States and other such examples within the Community.
There should not be any confusion on this issue and I would like to make it perfectly clear that it is the governments which decide on their representation and there is therefore nothing more to say on this issue.
Mr President, I have nothing to add to what I have already said.
Decisions are habitually made in the Council of Ministers of the European Union on fiscal issues while the interested parties are not represented there to defend themselves, as is the case with our Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Autonomous Community of Navarre.
I would ask Members not to enter into debates on situations relating to their respective countries, but rather to put questions to the Council.
All I ask is that the Rules of Procedure be respected; otherwise, the danger is that, during the Presidency of a particular country, questions will focus on problems and debates specific to that country.
This activity was based on the common positions adopted in 1996, 1998 and 1999 and on the conclusions of the Council of 11 June 2001.
The European Union therefore regrets that, after six years of negotiations on the basis of a unanimously agreed mandate, the 5th review conference of the Convention on Biological and Toxin Weapons has not managed to adopt either a final declaration or a document with concrete measures to strengthen that Convention.
In accordance with the conclusions of 10 December 2001, on the repercussions of the terrorist threat on the European Union' s non-proliferation, disarmament and arms control policies, the Union intends to actively promote the global and effective application of multilateral instruments in the field of non-proliferation, disarmament and arms control.
With regard to the Convention on Biological and Toxin Weapons, the European Union confirms that the mandate of the ad hoc group of States which are parties to the Convention is still valid.
In fact, we have one particular hope: that in November 2002 we may have an agreement at this 5th review conference of the Convention.
Our argument with the United States is that, not only would the non-participation of the United States in this 5th review conference of the Convention and its new agreement damage the credibility of the whole international effort, but that to have a clear position on the Convention on Biological and Toxin Weapons is also one of the agreed actions which can be carried out jointly by the European Union and the United States in order to implement measures to combat the terrorist threat.
Because it is well know that these biological and toxin weapons may be used for criminal purposes by international terrorist organisations.
As the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 16 to 37 will be replied to in writing, apart from Question No 36 which deals with an issue which is on the agenda.
The rapporteur has succeeded both in highlighting the improvements achieved in the wake of the 2000 reform of the Structural Funds and also in drawing our attention to difficulties in their application, especially the problems in connection with the delayed implementation of the programme.
Although it was an essential objective of the pre-2000 reform of the Structural Funds to avoid repetition of mistakes from the beginning of the 1994 planning period, but rather to get fully involved in the first year, this has only partly succeeded.
The guidelines set out by the Commission were not always understood in the regions.
On the other hand, the Member States were not always prompt in sending in the programme documents and the additional items of information that had been requested.
All these things, Mr President, are facts - facts of which I had warned when I was the rapporteur presenting an own-initiative report in the same terms, appealing urgently for the start of a new planning period not to again be delayed as it had been in 1994.
Additionality is essential so that Structural Funds appropriations supplement national funds rather than replacing them.
I will end by calling upon Commissioner Barnier to take note of the fact that there needs to be some flexibility in the application of automatic decommitment in that the process must recognise those who are working successfully in the same Member State.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Structural Funds were designed to support the effort that the Member States put into their regional development policy and thus to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the European Union.
The start of the new 2000-2006 programming period has once again shown us the problems in the practical implementation of the Structural Funds, with the Member States regretting the time taken by the Commission to approve the general programme guidelines and the Commission criticising the time taken by the Member States to submit their programming plans and the additional information requested.
This is an aspect that the national authorities must focus on, without fail, in order to enhance the attraction of Structural Funds in the private sector.
Lastly, to conclude with a firm proposal, I think that one of the ways to simplify and lighten the administrative burden would, in fact, be to introduce a single regional development fund in 2007.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has tabled five amendments because we want to highlight some of the aspects relating to the issue we are dealing with.
At the same time, we ask that, in the event that unspent resources are reallocated, the appropriations which are not used be directed towards the least-favoured regions which are most active and innovative, as well as measures in favour of sustainable development.
Mr Pohjamo, the Commission supports your comments regarding the financial execution, particularly the very severe and very strict n+2 rule that is to be applied, as well as your remarks on monitoring and control and also on the quality of the programmes and projects.
My first comment concerns the new rules for the 2000-2006 period, which were laid down for a new working method and which also defined new responsibilities for those involved in the management of Structural Funds.
In the case of our Directorate-General, these changes came about at the same time as the internal reorganisation of the whole institution.
These new regulations were also drawn up from much stricter requirements regarding the quality of programmes.
In this area too, the various players needed time to understand and grasp these new requirements.
The truth, and I want to be honest about this, as I always am before this House, is that a five-month deadline to draft a document that is intended to cover a seven-year period was not realistic, when you understand the tough challenges involved and the amounts involved in the Structural Funds.
Second, within the limits of the room for manoeuvre that these texts allow, the Commission is already committed to responding to certain problems that you have raised, Mr Pohjamo.
I would firstly like to reiterate our desire to approach the management of Structural Funds in a transparent manner, and the communication that the Commission adopted on 5 July on the results of the programming of funds for Objective 1 between 2000-2006 is evidence of this.
Therefore, I understand very well this need to reduce bureaucracy and excessive complications.
It is my personal responsibility, that of the Commission, to provide fair accounts when they are requested.
As regards the sensitive question of natural or ecological disasters, which you mentioned in your report, Mr Pohjamo, I wish to point out that changes can be made to the programmes, as we have done in the past, with the Italian, Portuguese and Greek programmes, for example, when there were earthquakes between 1997 and 1999, or, more recently, in France, because of the hurricane.
That does not, of course, take into account the freedom that the national and regional authorities have within the programmes adopted by the Commission to finance projects that they believe to be most applicable and, if necessary, to re-deploy or re-programme appropriations.
Therefore, your proposals on imposing penalties for infringing the additionality principle or for cutting short a programming period are to be taken into account in the current debate on the future of the cohesion policy.
But beware of proposals that could involve modifying the legislative framework, or even amending the Treaty itself, such as the idea of creating a single regional development fund.
Lastly, I would like to confirm the links that I am establishing between the report by Mr Pohjamo and the next report, and that all these comments on improving the management of Structural Funds will be very useful to me, to us, in drawing up the Commission guidelines on the future regional policy.
I believe that better management of appropriations, provided in a timely fashion, for useful projects in each of our regions, that the proper use of Structural Funds during this period, will be evidence and an argument for pursuing, or even stepping up all our actions by revamping regional policy in the next agenda.
That is why, Mr Pohjamo, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you for the time that you have taken, for your initiative in drawing up this report on the current management of Structural Funds. (Applause) Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Consistently with the Commission' s second report, we have noted that between 1988 and 1998 per capita GDP in Objective 1 regions rose from 63% to 70% of the Community average - and this is a great success - moreover, the benefits of cohesion have not been limited to direct recipients of related funding but have also extended to countries which are net contributors in terms of exported goods and services.
It will also be essential to rationalise the support instruments by reducing the number and size of funds and better coordinating Community policies and cohesion policies.
We hope that Parliament and the Commission will both call for a increase in the budget dedicated to the future resources of cohesion policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. (DE) Mr President, the Commission's report and Mr Musotto's are laudable, the one for its analytical description of the situation and the other for its supplementary proposals, although the observations of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs were taken into account only to a somewhat modest extent.
Commissioner, we have learned essential lessons from the difficulties we have had in raising poorer regions or suffering former industrialised zones to the level within the European Union; they should spur us on to improve things and should serve as a benchmark for the process of enlargement.
I reiterate that now because the ECSC continued to be of excellent service to us in recent years, no cofinancing is needed and the system of financing could in any case have been adapted.
I have touched on this issue now because the Commission played a considerable part in changing this instrument without envisaging the difficulties in the process of enlargement or even giving them some thought.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when considering the report we are now discussing, on the future of cohesion after enlargement, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities unanimously approved the following fundamental principles: firstly: cohesion policy, as defined in the Treaties, is a crucial pillar for the future of European integration and must not, therefore, be renationalised; secondly: the active promotion of a policy of equality between men and women is a prerequisite for achieving real economic and social cohesion; thirdly: the fact that disparities between the richest and poorest regions are predicted to double following the planned enlargement to a further ten countries and a significant fall in per capita income makes it crucial that the sum currently spent by the Union on cohesion polices is at least 0.45% of GDP, and for the sake of coherence, this amount must be increased.
I should also like to draw your attention to the objective laid down at the Lisbon Summit of achieving, in the European Union, in 2010, a 60% rate of female employment, because this increase in women working is essential not only in order to increase the European GDP, but also to finance the future of social security and to bring about an increase in tax revenues.
I therefore ask the Commission to consider gender equality as an integral part of the Community polices that contribute to economic and social cohesion; to include the aspect of gender and equal treatment between men and women in cohesion policies and assess, on the basis of precise indicators and quantified objectives, the contribution that economic and social cohesion makes to achieving the Community strategy for equal treatment and opportunities between men and women.
In some Member States there have been very positive results and a great deal of progress, while in others such as my own, unfortunately, the results have not been as positive as they might have been.
This means that governments need to get the message, especially in the light of the new regulation now being applied, which is more decentralised than the previous regulation, and do what they can to bring about the results which other countries have achieved.
Because numerous poor countries are joining, this will, as we all know, artificially inflate the income of numerous regions in comparison with the Community average.
The first point I wish to make, Commissioner, is that we join with you in rejecting the renationalisation of regional policy.
Cohesion policy makes clear European solidarity, which we do not want to lose, but rather to emphasise in the future.
The measures to achieve economic balance have been insufficient: they have been heading in the right direction, but they have been insufficient.
The enlargement of the Union requires a reinforced cohesion policy.
For that reason, cooperation with the peripheral areas is more important than ever.
They reject all attempts to protect vested rights and the exceptions to them.
That means that a phasing-out is at the same time an important instrument, and it also cushions the present regions in receipt of support.
Option 2 highlights the problems and offers a solution, and hence it is Option 2 that enjoys our full support.
At the same time though - and this is my next point - our group objects to the Commission's tactic of involving the candidate countries in the management of the Structural Funds at too late a stage and then making a saving at the end of the day.
Thirdly, there is a need for improved coordination among the Structural Funds as well as of structural policy with the other Community policy areas, especially the common agricultural policy and fiscal and economic policy.
The course for the Structural Funds, with their criteria and indicators for support, must be set in such a way that economic and social cohesion is also reflected in falling unemployment figures.
The second report on EU cohesion presented by Commissioner Barnier depicts a situation which has improved but which has certainly not been resolved.
With regard to the objectives, I fully support the position of my fellow member, Mr Musotto.
My personal feeling is that, as of 2006, it would certainly be more appropriate to use the unemployment rate as a measure, for the entry of poorer regions which are in greater need of aid will certainly not raise the level of the regions currently under Objective 1.
Mr President, the forthcoming enlargement of the Union gives this debate on economic and social cohesion a special dynamic.
This forces us to make choices.
We believe that, in some cases, a policy in support of economic and social cohesion that also supplements national policy is useful and desirable.
The Structural Funds have a special and relatively broad task in this respect.
The reports of the Commission have also proven that the current system works.
The Cohesion Fund is intended to provide economic stimuli on the basis of transparent, clearly defined criteria.
That is why I have tabled a number of amendments to which an honest but plain approach is central.
The Committee considers it essential to complete infrastructures in the fields of accessibility and transport in order to reduce the effects on the competitiveness of the current outlying regions, without which the efforts for cohesion that we have already made will suffer.
Everything else must be tested by reference to the new financial framework and in the light of the results of enlargement.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European regional policy includes a differential element, which is dictated by geography and which defines the outermost regions.
Over recent days, the authorities of these regions have been meeting in the Canary Islands to analyse, together with the representatives of the European Commission and the three States involved, the situation of these special regions in relation to social and economic cohesion.
In this way, I am sure that their economic and social development will not be restricted and Europe will have clearly demonstrated its solidarity with its people.
Mr President, the Musotto report is a good report.
So the second half of paragraph 57, or any compromise of similar effect which leaves the amount be made available open-ended, is not acceptable.
Mr President, I would like to thank the many Members who have helped to enhance this resolution with over 50 amendments.
That said, I will turn to the first two suggestions, which, moreover, have already been put forward this evening.
We therefore need to assess other factors as well such as the rate of unemployment, the quality of infrastructure and the cost of labour.
Politics must continue to take precedence over arithmetic in this sense.
The Commission proposed 0.14% of the budget to solve the problems of enlargement.
It is a successful policy which is going to ensure that soon there will be almost no Objective 1 regions amongst the Europe of the 15.
But the star has been enlargement: enlargement itself, the effect of enlargement on the other regions that currently receive aid and the absence of a reply to the four questions, Commissioner.
An apparent absence of a reply, since you can give us a satisfactory reply through good work, which is easy if done with common sense and if we believe in cohesion.
One: cohesion policy has proved to be a policy that works, and the report confirms this.
My suggestion is that this debate could, perhaps, focus on three factors: resources, as has been said, for it is unthinkable that resources should remain at their current level; the tools, for I feel, for example, that, while the Structural Funds are a tool which is suitable for a cohesion policy which differs greatly from region to region, it may be that the Cohesion Fund, which is less selective, should be rethought, at least in terms of the way its funds are allocated; coordination of the policies.
In many cases, where there are no additional resources, coordinated policies could be of benefit such as, for example, tax discounts, which it is still not possible to apply to some regions because of a rigid Commission policy on State aid.
Poorer regions such as Merseyside in my region, and in the rest of the EU 15, may continue to need Objective 1 funding, but more importantly than that, today a delegation of trade unionists from Manchester came to Strasbourg to fight to save 650 jobs threatened due to industrial restructuring.
The first idea is that if we want to have a viable European Union which has good prospects for the future, we will inevitably have to improve economic and social cohesion policy.
Eastern Europe must feel the same level of European solidarity experienced by countries such as Portugal, Spain, Greece and Ireland following their accession to the European Union.
Improving cohesion policy is necessary, however, not only to counter the huge regional imbalances that will result from the entry of scores of least-favoured regions in the current candidate countries, but also to continue to deal with the backwardness that still exists in the current Europe of fifteen countries, particularly in the outermost regions.
By this I wish to state that following 2006, we will need a cohesion policy which does not only look eastwards, but which also considers the still existing cohesion deficit in the current Europe of Fifteen and the new problems it will face as a result of enlargement.
The reading of the second cohesion report demonstrates that the Commission is aware of this problem.
The fact remains, nonetheless, that there will be numerous question marks, when we realise that a Europe with 25 Member States will have 30% more inhabitants, 30% more territory, but only 10% more wealth.
Europe must decide to provide the necessary resources for the radical transformation that will bring about enlargement and must reformulate the criteria for granting structural aid so that the poorest populations are not adversely affected.
Mr President, Commissioner, one of the recitals of this report states that extremely large regional differences constitute both a political and economic threat to the EU.
Enlargement is very important for the whole of Europe, and it is not the poorest regions which should pay for enlargement.
My question is about competition policy as well, and about coherence between competition policy and cohesion policy.
I am getting a lot of complaints about the way competition policy is being applied, particularly, recently, about voluntary and community sectoral organisations being treated in the same way as private sector organisations and being told that for projects they cannot receive more than 50% in total in public sector intervention.
This policy is the proof that the European Union is not merely a supermarket; that it will, one day, I hope, be a political power and that it must remain a community that stands together.
In this spirit, I feel that Mr Musotto' s report is an extremely worthwhile and useful contribution, as you have all said, to the debate on the future of the cohesion policy that I unveiled to you in January 2001.
And since I am speaking about a concept of Europe, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on cohesion, which I launched a year ago and which I will be seeing through to completion, in a genuine and decentralised manner, with the Member States - you can count on me to do this - the debate will be part of the other wide-ranging debate on the future of Europe.
I think that this contribution, Mr Musotto, is also important because it brings together the points of view of five parliamentary committees after an in-depth discussion has been held.
And then, finally, you will adopt this report in a few days and only after the Commission has published the first interim report on cohesion, which I released last week.
I will also be coming to present this interim report to the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on 20 February, as I pledged to do.
For all these reasons, I am pleased - in spite of the criticisms or questions, which I feel are constructive - to note in your report, Mr Musotto, a genuine convergence between Parliament and the Commission, on four essential points at least.
First of all, in the future, the main priority of the cohesion policy must be aid to regions that are lagging behind in their development, in other words, the poorest regions.
On this point, there is agreement, including amongst the Ministers that I met in Namur during the Belgian Presidency, and you confirm this agreement, that the poor regions, which are lagging behind in their development, are located in the future Member States (and they make up almost all of the regions of the future Member States) or in the Member States of today' s Union.
Therefore, our priority and focus is on the regions that are genuinely lagging behind in their development.
The second point of convergence is that cohesion, as many of you pointed out, is not an aspect of one single policy, but of all Community policies, which must, as stipulated in the Treaty, contribute to the cohesion between European countries and regions.
Each of these policies, even more than before, must contribute to increasing economic and social cohesion, if only because of the question marks that enlargement will raise, which, as we note in our second interim report, will increase gaps and inequality.
The third point is that we must strive to have more than a minimalist cohesion policy and reinvent a policy which applies to all the territories of the Union that are experiencing difficulties.
In other words, I note our consensus on the idea that the future regional policy will, after 2006, take into account all European regions, to varying degrees, of course, depending on whether the region is lagging behind in its development or is in a more prosperous region.
This policy should contribute to the integration of all regions in the Community and promote territorial cohesion.
To do this, it must be more simple, more decentralised and, at the same time, more specific (this is one of the questions that I raised in the cohesion report), specific, for example, on the urban question - half of European citizens will live, already live, in towns; specific on the regions that are undergoing industrial restructuring that you mentioned; specific on the regions that have lasting or definitive natural handicaps, mountainous regions or islands; or even specific on thematic objectives, such as the information society.
The fourth point of convergence is that we need resources in order to meet all these challenges and, for the next cohesion policy, resources which meet the needs of a larger Europe.
The Commission chose, and made this choice a long time ago, the criterion of GDP per capita and per region for determining which regions are lagging behind in their development.
Ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean, however, that the Commission will not listen to appeals by the regions which may be affected, either by enlargement or by the so-called 'statistical effect' that several of you have mentioned, by a mathematical decrease in the Community average of per capita GDP or the drop, also mathematical, of the eligibility threshold, which means that some regions that are still having serious problems (not only those in southern Europe, but also in East Germany, in England and elsewhere) are mechanically and artificially situated below this threshold, although they are still experiencing real difficulties.
Furthermore, if we maintain a genuine cohesion policy, which does not only cover regions that are lagging behind in their development, we should be able to take into account other criteria and move, as some of you have pointed out, towards making greater qualitative investment in people, in training men and women and in the information society.
I also note that, in the current programmes, - those that I approved and which have got off the ground - there are more programmes based directly on quality, rather than quantity, than in the previous period.
Lastly, I am not forgetting and will not forget the particular attention that must be given (not only in accordance with Article 299 of the Treaty, but also because the real problems they face, and their unbearable levels of unemployment) to the seven outermost regions of the European Union.
One MEP touched upon the subject - and this will be my final point - of the appropriations that you were proposing to grant to the countries which will join the Union, most likely in 2004.
We proposed a phasing-in process.
And this is why I suggested, along with my colleagues, for this genuine reason, that we adopt a progressive approach to the cohesion policy.
I do not want to see money that has been earmarked by Europe for the candidate countries, which will join the EU in 2004, to stay in Brussels or be returned to Brussels.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end here.
Speed limitation devices The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0012/2002) by Mr Hatzidakis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 92/6/EEC on the installation and use of speed limitation devices for certain categories of motor vehicles in the Community (COM(2001) 318 - C5-0267/2001 - 2001/0135(COD)).
The European Commission's proposal makes provision for speed limitation devices to restrict passenger vehicles to 100 kph and goods vehicles to 90 kph.
A study carried out in Holland and brought to our attention by the European Commission demonstrates that it stands to reap profits in the order of EUR 40 million a year and benefits to society in the order of EUR 89 million a year from the transport sector alone.
I should like to comment on two amendments accepted in committee.
What we are proposing here is that the directive should apply five years after it enters into force and, secondly, that the European Commission should submit a study eighteen months after the directive enters into force on so-called intelligent speed adaptation systems so that we can see if we can use these systems to differentiate speeds depending on the circumstances and, of course, if we can have even lower speeds in urban areas.
But I should like to ask them, given that there are some amendments which make the European Commission's proposal more flexible and bring it closer to their own position, to examine these amendments constructively and, if they can, to vote for them, because it is my prediction that, their position notwithstanding, this directive will, at some point, become European law.
In principle, we also need speed limitation devices for smaller vehicles, as we have had good experience of speed limitation devices in heavy lorries.
A shining example is the legislation on speed limitation devices.
In a Europe in which more than 40 000 people lose their lives in road accidents, all kinds of methods must be tried in order to make the roads safer.
That is why I demand that Amendment No 12 be rejected.
Mr President, I am quite sure that we all accept the premise that an inappropriate speed by any vehicle can cause accidents.
If this directive comes into play I believe that congestion and environmental pollution will increase.
Finally, the right way forward would be to seriously consider advances in technology, for example the proposed voluntary agreement on pedestrian protection.
The number of people who are killed each year in the European Union is still far too high.
I should like to draw your attention to the issue of intelligent speed adapters, a very important point in my view.
The purpose of the proposal is to extend the scope of the obligatory installation and use of speed limiters to vehicles in lighter categories than those currently affected by these limitations.
This measure represents the realisation of the priorities formulated in March 2000, within the framework of the Commission communication on road safety, which also received the explicit support of this Parliament.
The proposal will contribute to an increase in road safety, the protection of the environment and the maintenance of conditions of equal and fair competition between all operators within the European Union.
There are several amendments which we can support: Amendments Nos 4, 6 and 7 can be accepted in their entirety; Nos 5 and 10 are acceptable in principle, although the dates need to be altered, and the same is the case with Amendment No 6, which I referred to previously.
The Commission would prefer the following timetable: two years for new vehicles, three years for international transport and four for national transport.
With regard to Amendment No 9, the Commission could accept a study in the context of road safety towards 2010, as long as it does not involve a separate report.
The Commission believes that, for the moment, there is no advantage in applying this directive to M1 and N1 vehicles.
Finally, we will carefully study Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3, which refer to the textual differences between linguistic versions, in relation to the definition of vehicles.
I would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the Members who have spoken in this debate.
The debate on this report is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
authorising France to extend the application of a reduced rate of excise duty on 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments (COM(2001) 347 - C5-0401/2001 - 2001/0142(CNS)) 2. 2.
authorising Portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of Madeira on locally produced and consumed rum and liqueurs and in the autonomous region of the Azores on locally produced and consumed liqueurs and eaux-de-vie (COM(2001) 442 - C5-0422/2001 - 2001/0169(CNS)).
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member for one of the outermost regions, I welcomed the opportunity to draw up the report we are now discussing.
I am pleased because the Commission' s proposals to reduce the special rate of excise duty on the consumption of certain alcoholic drinks produced in Madeira, the Azores and the French overseas departments are yet another measure giving form and substance to the principle of remoteness, enshrined in Article 299(2) of the Treaties.
We should bear in mind that this legal basis, endorsed by the Treaty of Amsterdam, provides for the adoption of specific measures in various fields, especially that of tax legislation, in accordance with the very particular geographical, social, economic and cultural situations of these European regions.
Only by providing this special treatment will we ensure that these regions can offer genuine equal opportunities for our citizens living in the outermost regions.
At stake are also elements related to the specific identity itself of these regions, particularly in the French Overseas Departments, where activities linked to the planting of sugar cane and to the production of sugar and rum are an important part of the economic and social history of these territories.
Indeed, without the tax measure now being proposed, how will rum production in the OD be able to remain viable, when production costs for rum are considerably higher there than in neighbouring Caribbean countries, when rum from the Caribbean is able to enter the Community market without duties in 2003?
We should bear in mind that Community rum producers pay between four and six times more for sugar cane and three times more for their work force.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cane-sugar rum sector provides almost 40 000 jobs in three of the four French overseas departments.
By allowing producers in these departments to supply only the French market with a limited quantity of 'traditional' rum for a seven-year period, we are giving these businesses the means to fight against stiff competition from some third countries and, in doing so, we are protecting the future of thousands of jobs.
The people are asking us to do this, and it is our political responsibility to respond.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this debate concerns a specific issue, which is of limited reach and importance in the Azores, not wishing to make any comparison with the situation in the overseas territories or even in the autonomous region of Madeira, just two days after the Las Palmas summit of the Presidents of the Outermost Regions, which was attended by representatives of the Member States and the Commission.
According to these reports and the Commission' s proposals, these measures are essential in order to maintain the local production of rum, which is traditional in French overseas departments, and of rum, liqueurs and eaux-de-vie, which are traditional in Madeira and the Azores.
These traditional activities are very important for the economy of these regions and it is essential to maintain them in order to ensure an economic, social and territorial balance for these regions of the European Union.
Both are based on the application of the second paragraph of Article 299 of the EC Treaty, which is precisely the one relating to the outermost regions.
I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this provision was included in the Treaty of Amsterdam with the purpose of creating a common legal basis for actions in favour of these regions.
These actions must allow for the complete integration of these regions into the Union, while recognising their own characteristics, such as their great distance from the continent, the dependence of their economy on a small number of products, many of them relating to traditional and small-scale activities.
Therefore, the Commission considers that this second paragraph of Article 299 of the Treaty is the appropriate legal basis for these proposals and any others which may arise in the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
I refer to the Galileo satellite navigation system, the first great project to be shaped jointly by the European institutions and the ESA.
We are working towards the system being able to use the same receivers for GPS and Galileo signals.
After 11 September and during the Afghanistan conflict, the United States had apprehensions about the security aspects of what is a civilian project, but these will be safeguarded.
The Member States have delayed taking a decision for a long time, and I hope that they will enthusiastically endorse this project in March, despite certain problems that they have with the Price Waterhouse study - indeed, I get indications from various Member State governments that they will.
We are already a couple of months behind, but will be able to make up for them.
My proposal that the development company should be established, coming into being in parallel with the Joint Undertaking but dovetailing closely with it, offers a compromise, a way out of the dilemma.
We need now, at last, a resounding 'yes' to Galileo and a competitive alternative to GPS!
The Council wanted industry involved in Galileo as early as possible.
The cost of this phase is estimated at EUR 1.1 billion, to be split equally between the European Community and the European Space Agency, with an extra EUR 200 million coming from the private sector, pledged through the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding in March 2001 by representatives of the main industries concerned.
Out of the amount financed by the European Space Agency, EUR 50 million would be paid in cash and EUR 500 million in kind, as stated in the European Space Agency' s Statutes.
I have tabled two amendments in my opinion: the first concerns the possible future participation of the candidate countries in the development phase of Galileo, as called for by Parliament in its resolution of 3 October 2001.
I think that divisive forces have also been at work in the European Parliament, but I am convinced, from what I have heard, that they will not succeed.
Either the European Union is capable of launching a space programme as modest as Galileo, forty years after the daring innovations of Airbus and Ariane, or - as some Members who are sitting on other benches have said - we show that we are incapable of doing this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance takes a positive overall view of the report by Mr Glante.
Our objective is now to decide how to manage the project' s development phase.
We do not believe that the proposed monitoring committee will serve a useful purpose, since the Member States are already represented in the Joint Undertaking.
Madam Commissioner: the PPE-DE broadly supports the Galileo project in principle.
We must not be discouraged and we still have time, although not much, to try finally to move ahead with a project which seems to me absolutely crucial to Europe and which furthermore is going to be a measure of Europe' s real will to have a presence on the international stage.
I will just focus on three aspects which have been referred to here in relation to the report.
We all feel that the participation of the private sector is crucial.
We believe that the private sector should be incorporated from the outset, not only because of the limited funds which it is going to provide during the development phase of 2002 to 2005, but because in the medium term it falls to that sector to contribute substantially during the following phase, not only in the implementation phase, but also in the operative phase.
The substantial increase in the financial participation of the private sector is an essential condition if we are to achieve, within the framework of the future financial perspectives, the necessary public funding in the latter phases.
The participation of the private sector should not be improvised, but rather it should be prepared from now, and that was expressed in the resolution of the Council of Ministers in April of last year.
Article 9 of the Statutes says that, in the proposal we are making, in the field of contracting, the executive committee must act totally independently from the management board in which the companies participating in the Joint Undertaking would be represented, that is to say that the executive committee acts independently of the companies which may participate in tenders.
These operating rules seem to us to be the most appropriate for achieving our objective, since they maintain the operating autonomy of the undertaking while allowing the States to control the activities of the Commission, which represents the European Community on the management board of the Joint Undertaking.
With regard to the military dimension, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that Galileo is a system designed for civil purposes, which will have to be managed by civilians and that, furthermore, that is one of its essential differences when compared to the GPS.
By this, ladies and gentlemen, I mean firstly that this type of system always has a double use.
Secondly, as you know, there is a free access signal, which is totally free of charge, and another access signal, pre-paid, with services, codified, but which is also free.
And a third signal is reserved for the public sector, but - I insist - is intended not for military uses but for civilian uses such as those I have indicated.
Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Galileo, all the elements for taking a decision are on the table in the Council of Ministers, and the funding for the whole of the development phase, without any State of the Union having to give a single euro more in order to implement the project.
Galileo is essential to European industry, to technological capacity, to European space technology, but also for a series of other factors, such as autonomy, sovereignty and the capacity to offer an alternative service to GPS, which would strengthen the latter, since, as we have often said, Galileo will be and should always be, compatible with the GPS, both should be mutually strengthened, and, in the event of the failure of either of them, the other should serve as an alternative for all users.
It only remains for us to see whether or not there is political will and I believe that this is one of those occasions which will demonstrate whether or not there is political will to move towards a Europe which counts in the world.
The debate is closed.
