European Central Bank Annual Report (2005) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Berès on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the 2005 Annual Report of the European Bank.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report of the European Central Bank always offers an opportunity for the European Parliament to review monetary policy and to supplement the work carried out by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs through the monetary dialogue conducted four times a year with the President of the European Central Bank.
The year 2005 was an unusual year, in which the Central Bank initiated a movement raising interest rates five times, the first of which was on 1 December.
These successive rises took place in an unusual economic context, determined by both the rise in oil prices and a disadvantageous exchange rate for euro zone exports, and in the context of an upturn in economic growth considered by more acute observers as fragile.
In these circumstances, this report specifically invites the Central Bank to analyse carefully the conditions in which it conducts its monetary policy.
Consider, for example, the invitation made to the Central Bank to examine closely the use of EUR 500 notes and the possibility of freezing the issue of these notes.
I am here to present to the European Parliament the 2005 annual report of the European Central Bank.
As recognised in the draft report, the ECB's monetary policy - which is designed to fulfil our primary objective of maintaining price stability - has continued to be successful in anchoring inflation expectations at levels consistent with price stability, despite a number of challenges mentioned by Mrs Berès, relating in particular to the continued strong surge in oil prices until the most recent period.
In particular, my introductory statement at the press conference after the first Governing Council meeting each month provides a clear view, on the part of the Governing Council, on the current monetary policy stance in real time.
In 2005, the ECB's monetary policy operated in an environment of increasingly improving economic conditions.
While real GDP growth remained moderate in the first half of the year, in an environment of heightened uncertainties surrounding domestic demand, the pace of economic activity gradually strengthened during the second half of the year, from around 1.2% year-on-year on average in the first half of 2005 to around 1.7% year-on-year on average in the second half.
As regards price developments, annual HICP inflation averaged 2.2% in 2005, compared to 2.1% in each of the two preceding years.
Thus, reviewing the ECB's monetary policy decisions in 2005 and early 2006, it is useful to split this period into two parts.
In the first half of 2005, against the background of subdued inflation developments and with inflation expectations for the euro area solidly anchored at levels in line with price stability, the Governing Council concluded that it remained appropriate to keep interest rates at their historically low levels.
In the second half of 2005 and early 2006, the likelihood that average annual HICP inflation could remain above 2% over the medium term increased and a spill-over to inflation expectations had to be avoided.
As a consequence, by the end of 2005, the regular cross-checking of the ECB's economic and monetary analyses indicated that an adjustment of the very accommodative stance of the ECB's monetary policy was clearly warranted in order to contain upside risks to price stability and preserve the firm anchoring of long-term inflation expectations in the euro area.
The Governing Council of the ECB therefore decided in December to raise the key ECB interest rates by 25 basis points, after two and a half years of maintaining these rates at historically low levels.
Turning to recent developments, all the main indicators of economic activity in the euro area that have become available in the course of 2006 confirm the Governing Council's assessment that economic growth has gained momentum and, in addition, become more broadly-based and sustained, mainly supported by domestic demand.
As regards 2007, inflation risks remain on the upside.
This has been noted in the Commission report.
Monetary developments therefore require enhanced monitoring, in particular against the background of improved economic conditions and strong property market developments in many parts of the euro area.
As regards fiscal policy, budgetary developments in 2005 and 2006 and plans for 2007 point to further, albeit slow, improvements in budget balances.
As regards payment and settlement issues, let me first thank the European Parliament for the support expressed for the implementation by November 2007 of the TARGET2 system.
We welcome the European Commission's initiative for a directive on payment services and I warmly welcome the European Parliament's contribution to a swift adoption of this directive to assist the banking industry in its implementation of SEPA payment instruments as from 1 January 2008.
We also welcome the ECB's comments with regard to the necessary structural reforms in the Member States that it is constantly calling for.
This is very important, because it should not be the case that large countries have a qualified seat and that it is, in this case, only in the Federal Chancellery in Berlin that it is decided who is a good candidate.
Finally, I should like to turn to the subject of Target II.
First of all, our viewpoint on monetary policy is clear.
Price stability is the ECB's Number One priority and that is how it should stay, as described in the Treaty.
The principles on which the European Central Bank is founded are already in themselves an obstacle to growth in the euro zone, but when there is growth, in spite of your actions, it creates few or no jobs and only benefits the richest in society.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, here we are again telling the European Central Bank how to do its job!
Indeed, the ECB has enough trouble of its own, without listening to this Parliament, in finding an interest rate that suits 12 different economies, soon to be more.
Effectively, the ECB will be forced into a choice between inflation in Germany or recession in southern Europe, with all the dire implications for government debts that this will entail.
I must therefore conclude by asking the real question: just because our German grandmother had inflationist diabetes in the 1920s, should that mean that, 80 years on, the whole of Europe should go on a sugar-free budgetary and monetary diet? (DE) Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats endorses the European Central Bank's position on currency stability.
We also support the independence of the European Central Bank, its political independence and the independence of its monetary policy, and all of this right from the selection procedure for its members.
I also hope, however, that the European Central Bank realises that it should not overplay the subject of independence.
Do not overdo it here; where monetary policy is concerned, we are on your side. (FR) Mr President, since its creation, the European Central Bank has fulfilled its primary mission, namely the fight against inflation.
Rates of inflation in the euro zone have thus remained below those in the United States and Great Britain.
The euro is in fact a shield that has protected the whole of Europe during events such as the war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan or even 11 September 2001.
Thirdly, the ECB is mistaken in its interpretation of the inflation criterion applied in assessing how prepared new Member States are for entry into the euro zone.
The Treaty clearly states that the point of reference should be the average inflation rate of, and I quote: 'the three best performing Member States in terms of price stability'.
The ECB defined price stability as a rate of inflation under 2% but close to 2%.
There cannot be two different definitions of the same Treaty provision, and I therefore call on the ECB to clarify the situation. (ES) Mr President, President Trichet, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation and debate in Parliament of the European Central Bank Annual Report 2005 is the annual account that makes the independence of the Central Bank compatible with its democratic control.
At the end of 2005, and following two and a half years without taking any action, the European Central Bank increased interest rates, inflation stood at 2 tenths above the 2%, and there was a modest growth in the euro zone of 1.4%.
Secondly, we also need to know how these monetary policy conditions translate to the market and, in particular, small and medium-sized businesses.
During 2005, the European Central Bank published its first report on financial integration in the euro zone, and I congratulate it on that.
European Central Bank (FR) Mr President, might I perhaps say a word or two, since a number of issues have been broached?
The third issue, which is important from our own perspective, is how to maximise the Central Bank's control over the bank accounts opened in our own book.
As to the question of whether or not we are sufficiently transparent and open as regards communication, I reiterate that we do not take decisions alone behind closed doors.
The Commissioner and the President of the Eurogroup, Jean-Claude Juncker, are invited to all meetings of the Governing Council.
As regards the transparency of our concept of monetary policy, we are in a position where we say that our primary goal is price stability, because that is what the Treaty stipulates.
Europe is a vast continental economy and, from 1 January next year when Slovenia joins, the euro zone will have 315 million citizens.
This compares with 300 million in the United States and thus represents an economy of the same order of magnitude.
The debate is closed.
In an ever more complex world, characterised by an extremely violent economic and social war, not to have an extensive and high-quality political debate on this subject is, at present, an error but may, in future, prove to have been an act of negligence.
The European Central Bank and its President, Mr Trichet, must not lose sight of the fact that Article 105 of the Treaty establishing the European Community clearly indicates that, without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the European System of Central Banks shall support the EU's economic policies.
At a time when increases in the prices of raw materials and of energy are giving rise to natural inflationary tensions in the world, we need to reflect on the impact of this situation on our internal market and our common currency, while seriously asking ourselves whether the time might not have come to develop the euro so that, as well as being a truly remarkable technical success, it is also a political currency.
