White Paper on Sport (debate) The next item is the report by Manolis Mavrommatis, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the White Paper on Sport.
May I also thank Commissioner Špidla for being here today in place of Commissioner Figeľ, who is travelling outside Europe.
The main points were also covered by 426 amendments tabled to the lead committee and to the other seven committees, which gave their opinions.
Debates have focused on two issues of the financial side of sport.
Lastly, as we stated in the Belet report on professional football, UEFA and FIFA should reach agreement and work with the agencies of the Commission.
It is of great significance for Member States and the sporting world in general that the EU will in future be able to substantially contribute to and promote European policy on sport.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) In the first place I should present apologies from my colleague Commissioner Figeľ, who cannot take part in this sitting because of a long-planned working visit to Egypt.
We hope that the Lisbon Treaty will soon come into force and we are delighted with the European Parliament's support for the preparatory actions in the field of sport, which contribute to implementation of the new EU competence in this area.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (NL) Well, Mr Špidla has said it all.
I am extremely glad of the attention that this White Paper pays to eliminating racism and discrimination, in both professional and amateur sport.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (NL) I would like to thank the Members for their extremely pleasant cooperation on this report.
I also find that the distinction between the specific characteristics of sport and the economic activities that frequently accompany sport is a little too explicit, because I believe that economic activities - including those that protect sport - cannot have exceptions made for them in the Treaty.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (ES) Mr President, I am convinced that the subsequent legislative development of Article 149 of the Lisbon Treaty will positively benefit sport in the European Union.
However, in territorial terms or, in other words, on the ground, I believe that the European Commission, in exercising its legislative initiative, must act carefully with regard to the different local situations and the differences between sporting disciplines.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Mr President, I welcome the white paper on sport and I particularly support the emphasis on securing greater legal certainty, because relying on a case-by-case approach in the courts has led to an inconsistency of approach in terms of governing sport.
Stronger action by Member States, European clubs and African governments should be taken to ensure that they do not participate in this.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - (NL) I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for his outstanding report and in particular, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, for the attention that he pays to civil liberties, justice and home affairs in the area of sport.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
If we take the role of sport seriously, then sport should not just be a profit-generating sector; we should be seeking to ensure that governments not only put their moral weight behind sport but also much greater financial support than previously.
I congratulate my honourable friend Mr Mavrommatis.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, the White Paper on Sport, following on from the own-initiative report on the future of professional football, known as the Belet report, is a substantial and necessary document.
We will vote in favour of the report by Mr Mavrommatis on the White Paper on sport as it is an excellent report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, it will not surprise you, but I do not welcome the conclusions of this report.
Even the president of FIFA, Sepp Blatter, believes the rules need to be changed.
I believe that when we speak of an European policy in this field, we should think, first and foremost, of our children, their health, future and social integration.
The footballer François Sterckele was this morning involved in a traffic accident.
For this reason we support the so-called home-grown players rule so that young people are trained by a club and can get their first contract with the same club.
The first is the relationship between sport and health: although everyone is well aware by now that physical activity is essential in order to remain in good shape, there is a worrying tendency in certain EU Member States to reduce the number of hours devoted to sport in schools.
Fourthly, the role of sport in education is an issue which has been mentioned frequently, and I would remind you of my report on this topic which dates back to 2004.
Ten years ago, in my report on the role of the European Union in the field of sport, we called for a White Paper, and I am pleased that we are able to vote on it today. (DE) Mr President, for a long time now, all the sports organisations have been calling for sport to be given greater significance and, indeed, greater visibility than has hitherto been the case, and we are acting on this call today.
The many aspects of sport - its contribution to society, its role in personal development and fulfilment and in promoting social integration, etc. - have already been underlined.
We are therefore appealing to every minister of education in the Member States to introduce a requirement for at least three hours of physical education in schools per week.
In a utopian world we could watch everything and never pay, but in the real world that would result in little of quality being left to watch.
Finally, I should like to raise another very important matter.
We cannot, for instance, apply competition law in its purely economic sense if that would ultimately destroy competition in its sporting sense.
Using this report to try and close down the debate on liberalising gambling and the lottery market is plainly wrong.
Sporting activity helps to develop physical, intellectual and social skills, which is why sport should be practised both within the education system and in other aspects of social life.
One point that should not be underestimated is the benefit to disabled people of practising sport: all the Member States, local and regional authorities, and sports organisations should guarantee and facilitate disabled access to sporting installations.
However, we must examine a number of false assertions made about the gambling market in Europe.
In conclusion, I would like to express my conviction that, by adopting the White Paper on Sport, we will contribute to promoting a healthier and more valuable European society. (EL) Mr President, all my life I have absolutely loved sport, both as a participant and as a spectator.
I should of course add that for years my fellow Member and friend Mr Mavrommatis and I were writing sports articles for the same paper.
It is a great challenge for many people involved in sport to increase their interest in sporting activities.
I think that we have to find some alternative sources of financial support if we do not use that money. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on preparing this report.
Mr President, let me once again thank all the Members who have spoken here today and all those who have submitted amendments to the report on the White Paper on Sport.
A total of 520 amendments have been tabled in the eight committees.
The European Union has a vital coordinating role in informing citizens and encouraging them to take part in a range of sporting activities.
Unfortunately, the fact that physical education classes are not attractive leads to an increase in absenteeism.
in writing. - (HU) The report on sport by my fellow Member from Greece is an important document on an issue that is close to my heart.
For the moment, we have no clear reference in the treaties in force that would allow our active involvement through programmes and funds.
I regret that, during this week's presentation of the new Preliminary Draft Budget, we did not discuss more on the budgetary line that can be established at Chapter 3 - Citizenship of the EU Budget.
Some superb initiatives that stand out in this regard include the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA)'s campaign 'Football Against Racism in Europe (FARE)', and the series of events entitled 'Racism spoils the game'.
I commend the inclusion of sport in the Lisbon Treaty, the requirement for the 2009 budget to have a separate budget line for the activities in the field of sport, and the development of measures for its promotion in the Member States.
Being a member of the Committee on Regional Development from Bulgaria, a country with underdeveloped sport infrastructure, especially in amateur sport, I would like to call upon the European Commission and the Member States to more actively use the European Regional Development Fund and the other financial tools for investment in the urban environment, and for development of sport-related infrastructure and projects.
It is important for European sport for all and grassroots activity that Member States are able to preserve their national gambling systems, which are an essential ingredient in the specificity of sport.
in writing. - (PL) Sport is such an important part of daily life and is also so globalised that it merits the attention of the European Union's institutions.
Their behavioural culture is very different; tolerance and solidarity are very important elements that sport nurtures in them.
in writing. - (ET) Much has been said here about the role of sport in culture, its effect on health etc.
in writing. - (RO) The cultural statistics published by Eurostat in 2007 were obtained based on the activities the Member States acknowledge to enter this category.
Education is essential in promoting sport.
