In total Asia has around 40% of the world's poultry population and accounts for 25% of world trade in poultry.
This is a devastating disease in poultry causing very high mortality – up to 95% in 24 hours.
Many millions of birds have already died of the disease, or have been destroyed in the fight to halt its spread.
In its sanitary and its economic dimension, not forgetting the animal welfare aspects, this outbreak of avian influenza is unprecedented and, although there is at present no indication of a developing human pandemic, this risk cannot be excluded according to the WHO.
It may be more difficult to prevent the disease in these flocks than in larger commercial units.
This has the potential to accelerate trends towards the industrialisation of poultry operations in the affected countries and therefore could have some negative social and environmental consequences.
Clearly, the situation affects the European Community at many levels and the Commission, as well as the Member States, has taken decisive action.
The Commission has immediately taken safeguard measures to ensure adequate protection against possible disease introduction in the territory of the Community via imports of live birds and poultry products from the countries concerned to protect both animal and public health.
The Commission has made appropriate arrangements to send an animal health and two public health experts to Vietnam to assist in combating the disease in collaboration with the WHO.
In addition, Member States have also sent experts to various other countries.
We have been, and we will continue, monitoring the situation carefully via our delegations, the WHO, FAO, OIE, as well as governmental and other non-governmental information sources.
The Member States have contingency plans in place according to Community legislation, approved by the Commission to be implemented in case of avian influenza outbreaks in poultry.
In the public health domain, assessment of risk to humans is carried out on a continuous basis in cooperation with the WHO and experts from the Member States.
Rapid exchange of information and mutual consultation on guidelines and measures taken or planned by the Member States is ensured via the early-warning and response system of the European Community.
Moreover, the Commission intends to publish a working paper on pandemic influenza preparedness and response planning, which sets out a series of steps to be taken by Member States and the European Community to address the threat of an avian influenza pandemic.
The Commission is collaborating closely with the affected countries to identify areas where help is needed and where it can provide the greatest benefit.
Not only the Directorate for Health and Consumer Protection, but also those for Development, EuropeAid and our Humanitarian Aid Office, are actively collaborating with local governments and non-governmental organisations.
As time is an important factor, the Commission services at all levels are in continuous dialogue with the World Health Organisation, the FAO and World Organisation for Animal Health, and local authorities to share our experience and expertise in disease control as rapidly and with as little red tape as possible.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our staff for this extra effort.
The Commission hopes that all these measures and activities will be successful in containing and ultimately eradicating the disease and that we can restore normal practices in our trade and other dealings with the countries affected sooner rather than later.
I would like to make three points.
One of the things we were talking about in the Committee recently was the importation of chicken meat from Brazil because of the danger that this was impregnated with nitrofurans.
We have come across the element of concealment already in the countries where this has arisen.
He has outlined something of this, but not perhaps talked about that precise team.
I also wonder whether what we do is always enough, and whether we really are thinking in terms of what is called preventative consumer protection.
As this is something we keep asking about in this House, I really would like to know what happens when the Commissioners discuss this around their table.
When we ask Commissioner Lamy to give priority, in discussions on the World Trade Organisation, to consumer protection and hygiene policy as matters to be negotiated with third countries, I know that the most we can expect by way of response is a warm smile.
The reasons for all this are very simple, and are to be found not only in the hygiene conditions, but also – and let me make this quite clear – in our having been too soft.
We will have something to say later on about the European Centre on Communicable Diseases.
In that context, never; nor is it one of the European Union’s priorities.
I would be grateful to you, Commissioner Byrne, if you could ensure that the financial perspective will include, as one of its priorities, an obligation on the Member States to spend money on research into vaccines capable of protecting people against the diseases that may come our way in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too should like to thank the Commissioner for the statement he has made.
In my view, control procedures have hardly changed over the past few years.
The point is that this Parliament has given the Commission the opportunity of using this extra money twice in the past two years.
I am not talking about the resources in Category 3 for research, but extra resources in Category 1a of the agricultural budget.
Trade depends on trust and many aspects cannot be monitored by the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin alone, which is dependent on the information that countries pass on to the OIE.
I take the view that it is precisely the moves towards industrialisation that have taken place in these countries that have created the conditions for this pandemic, for they have brought indigenous and adapted breeds into contact with genetically developed breeds that may have adapted to industrialisation but have genetic defects and lack resistance to this disease.
So, if you favour on-the-spot controls in this case, as we do, they must form part of a constant analytical process if these problems are to be addressed.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that the current epizootic disease of avian influenza in Thailand and South-East Asia again raises acutely the question of these new pandemics, with the risks of repeated health crises, as we have seen in the recent past, which have destabilised farmers and also threatened consumers.
Last year there were cases of avian influenza in the Netherlands, not to mention the swine fever that recurs in our countries.
As my fellow Members have said, however, we also need to deal with the causes.
While the causes of these diseases are sometimes concealed to avoid damaging the industry or turning away the consumer, we do – at least in the previous cases – have a pretty good idea what they are.
France, which produces 2 million tonnes of poultry a year, 35 to 45% of it for export, could return for a time&#160;–&#160;and not only France but others too&#160;– to traditional markets from which it was ousted by competition from Brazil, which practices dumping prices and where, it also appears, production conditions are atrocious.
I am thinking of the one that was signed at the GATT in 1994 stipulating that Europe commits itself to importing 5% of its poultry meat consumption, or one million tonnes in 2002.
The first concerns the health aspect.
Some Member States are equipped with their own national laboratories, but the European Centre for Infectious Diseases must set up a group to monitor the ways in which the health situation is monitored in the Member States.
The second aspect concerns the Commission’s work.
This illness shows that communicable diseases go beyond the framework of the Member States and impose the need for immediate measures which guarantee prevention and protect the health of European citizens.
On 1 February 2004, the World Health Organisation pointed out the danger of the flu virus spreading from human to human.
So this specific epidemic may change quickly and continually.
We have witnessed a similar scenario in the case of FMD, and we must take measures in order to prevent a similar situation from occurring again.
In this case too, we know that vaccines are necessary, but nothing, or far too little, is being done about it.
The only country that is working on vaccines is Italy.
People will not understand why safety measures at Schiphol have to be quite different from those in Düsseldorf.
We do indeed have to do more for medical research, and when we do, we must not think only in terms of products that are capable of being used in the short term.
The order did not become valid until 6&#160;February.
This means that the system governing the Commission’s relations with the Member States – after all, you cannot always do everything – probably still leaves something to be desired.
A number of Members have already mentioned vaccines.
I see this as an area in which Europe should develop far more resources and scope in order to act as one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Northern Ireland has a very vibrant poultry industry, which is expressing grave concern.
While what has happened in Asia is unfortunate, we have to protect the European market, because it is an extremely large market for the poultry industry.
I have to ask the Commissioner to give serious consideration to the depth of our scrutiny of the chicken Asia is producing and exporting to Europe.
Our producers produce chicken and broiler chicken meat of an extremely high standard for the consumers in Europe.
Before this ban is lifted again, Commissioner, I would like your assurance that you will do everything to ensure that our veterinary inspection in the Far East where the outbreaks took place is of the highest quality, and we accept no excuses.
It is certainly not my intention to draw a comparison between our Commissioner and that animal, but it is absolutely true that the Commission is often late in responding to certain epidemics of animal diseases.
The Commissioner visited Thailand in early January and stated there, during his visit, that he was pleased about how the problem was being dealt with and that there was certainly no risk of avian influenza.
We are in favour of supporting the Asian countries in the fight against avian influenza, but we in Europe should not be injecting funds into this while a number of countries ride roughshod over the quarantine measures.
Finally, the Commission should start a worldwide debate on the fight against animal diseases.
I strongly believe that this is a matter of public health.
The ongoing helplessness of the specialists in the face of this epidemic led to a further sense of insecurity and resulted in a high number of casualties and also a climate of instability in society because it emphasised the deadly risk to anyone contracting the disease.
Because I believe that life and health are the most precious assets we have, I must express my concern at this new epidemic: a form of flu whose virus comes from chickens and for which no cure has yet been found.
Draw boundaries around neighbourhoods, cities and countries and cut them off from the outside world?
We have a duty to ensure that our actions contribute to making health policies accountable, as regards this new disease too, in the face of which we feel powerless.
We must find out whether other animals in our food chain are equally at risk, because a few days ago pigs were said to be amongst the animals most vulnerable to this type of virus.
To allay these legitimate concerns, all the necessary means must be made available to prevent and treat this epidemic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union must raise concerns about the unhealthy practices that have developed alongside the industrialisation and mass transportation of livestock in parts of Asia.
But in the light of this flu virus we must maintain the strictest food safety standards here in the European Union, ensuring that all imports meet those very same high standards.
Modern food systems mean that animal diseases travel far and travel quickly.
The experts who are there, who have been offered by me, have been supplying their services through the World Health Organisation and are in place working with the OIE , in Vietnam particularly.
The evaluation will be made as a result of a visit from the inspectors of the FVO and following a report from them as to the situation.
As I indicated in my earlier remarks, there is in existence an early warning response system.
This system is in place, working from Luxembourg, and has been in operation for some time.
You will remember when I reported to Parliament last year on the SARS issue, I also pointed to the work of this committee.
I am absolutely satisfied that the system of rapid response that we have in relation to animal and human diseases is very effective.
You will remember the very quick response of the Commission and my services to the outbreak of foot and mouth disease some years ago, when the Commission responded within a matter of hours and all the relevant authorities and Member States knew within a matter of hours that there had been this outbreak in the United Kingdom.
The same is true of public health because we have this system in place.
I can assure Parliament that the evidence is there that the Commission and other institutions of the European Union are working well to respond quickly to these kinds of issues and to give proper information to the public and, indeed, to respond well and appropriately to outbreaks of this kind.
The legislation in place requires country of origin labelling and certification and stamps from countries such as Thailand.
Of course we are concerned about the outbreak of animal and bird diseases in other parts of the world and we make sure that we respond properly to those issues.
As a number of people mentioned during this debate, we must not lose sight of the fact that we have had these outbreaks of avian influenza in the European Union also.
One of the items on the agenda is the question of the stockpiling of vaccines in respect of diseases of this kind, of which flu is obviously one.
In his opinion inspections are not carried out at the same level for products coming in from outside the European Union.
Under Commission Decision 2002/995/EC, all personal imports of meat in the luggage of passengers from Asia have been banned with the exception of small amounts of specialist food products, such as baby food.
Under these rules, poultry meat and meat products carried by passengers cannot be introduced into the EU without conforming to the same health requirements as commercial imports.
I had been in Vietnam, from where we do not import any poultry meat, so the issue does not arise there.
But I had also been in Thailand.
I am satisfied that my presence in Thailand helped to improve transparency in relation to this issue.
Mr Gollnisch asked me about the risk of contamination of the United States virus.
There is a regulatory committee of the EU, which includes Member States' experts, who deal with that.
They are meeting later this month in relation to this issue.
Mr de Roo asked me about borders.
Once again, I refer back to the lack of competences that we have in relation to borders and communicable diseases, but I hope more progress will be made on this.
As I indicated earlier, that was not the case; I reacted while I was there and the Commission responded well to this issue.
I am advised that cooked meats above 60 degrees – and we put in a safety margin of another 10 degrees – are safe for human consumption.
The inspectors in the European Union, and in the Member States themselves, know what is necessary and carry out appropriate inspections to ensure that there are no breaches of Community law in relation to this issue.
There were a number of questions in relation to the number of inspectors at the border posts.
The Food and Veterinary Office inspectors monitor this when they carry out their inspections.
There are no reports of any concerns in relation to this.
This is, however, being watched very closely because of the similarity between the immune system of pigs and of humans.
I have had detailed consultations and briefings and I am satisfied that their own work, their interaction with the WHO, the FAO and the OIE, and also their interaction with the experts in the Member States, indicate to me that this issue is being taken very seriously, that the officials, at both national and international level, understand the seriousness of this and that they are doing everything in their power to ensure that the disease is not spread.
One of the difficulties being faced in some poorer areas is that the stamping-out of the disease is best achieved by killing the birds in question.
This is of course a matter of concern in poor countries, because unless the authorities involved face up to the question of compensation there is a risk that a disease of this kind may be hidden.
This has to be faced and we have to emphasise it in our relations with the authorities in Member States.
These kinds of diseases cannot be hidden, their presence will come out, will be known, and the consequences ultimately will be worse for those countries who engage in that exercise, because they undermine the confidence of the authorities engaged in food safety, like ours in the European Union.
The stringent measures necessary before the ban is lifted in Thailand, with the requirement that there will be independent evaluation, will be particularly necessary in this instance because of the lack of transparency at an earlier stage.
We must be assured that our own authorities are satisfied, which is why no lifting of the ban in Thailand will take place until the FVO has carried out an inspection on the ground and reported back that things are satisfactory. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on a point of order, I have asked the Commissioner about the rumour of the FMD outbreak in 26 towns in Vietnam that are also plagued by avian influenza.
There may be a risk that the outbreak of the disease there is more serious and more widespread than in Thailand.
The debate is closed.
The SARS emergency in the early spring of 2003 served as a sharp reminder of the need to accelerate the further development of our capacity to deal with health threats.
The existing Community network for surveillance and control of communicable diseases is a solid basis on which we can build – to enhance cooperation between the Member States, the Commission and international organisations, in particular the World Health Organisation.
Establishment of the centre marks the shift from ad hoc cooperation to structured coordination through a focal point, giving clear scientific leadership.
The Commission’s text takes into account budgetary rigour and respects the Member States’ responsibilities on public health.
At first, the centre's core task will be to deal with communicable diseases from whatever source – deliberate or adventitious.
The statement and the debate we have just been listening to show the hopes and the fears of our constituents and their concern that we do better in this area in the future.
In the case of avian flu, with the transmission from hens to ducks to pigs to humans – resulting in the deaths of 19 humans – mutation is a possibility.
The centre does not resemble the American Central Direction Center, but is rather a network of networks.
In our discussions we have had two key issues before us.
There are then two further amendments tabled by the ELDR Group and I have to say to the House that, whatever one thinks of those amendments, were they to be accepted it would jeopardise the possibility of having this measure brought forward by 2005.
This report has only been possible because of the collaboration with my colleagues in my Group and across the groups, and I am deeply grateful to them, to the shadow rapporteurs, to the Group, the committee and the parliamentary secretariats.
Our discussions and debates have also played a role, including those with the Commission and the Council, which have often been forceful, yet always positive.
I am grateful both to the former Italian presidency and the current Irish presidency for the work we have been able to do together.
This proposal will enhance our Community and national ability to look after public health throughout the European Union.
It will enable us to work with other countries beyond the European Union to prevent, control and defeat the health threats that we face today.
Such an approach therefore requires very close coordination between the Member States and concerted action to pool resources, competences and knowledge.
I therefore hope that this Centre will be able to provide objective and easy to understand information about health risks for the public at large and in particular that it will be operational as soon as possible.
This centre is not in fact intended to replace the national authorities but to help them to network, obviously, with the competent Community agencies like the European Food Safety Authority, the European Drugs Agency and, of course, all the national authorities.
As regards the choice of headquarters, I hope it will be as operational as possible and that we will avoid fruitless arguments.
It will operate in cooperation with all the existing services involved in public health, such as the World Health Organisation and the European Food Safety Authority.
On behalf of my group, Mr President, and following recent developments – I refer to the previous debate which we had on bird flu – I should like to emphasise that we agree with the rapporteur's proposal to close the matter at first reading and for the centre to open in 2005, even if we are not entirely satisfied with the Council's positions.
However, I should like to thank the rapporteur for accepting my proposals to extend the scope of the regulation to other serious health threats and not just communicable diseases.
I should also like to thank him because he accepted the need for the repercussions of recent epidemics on both physical and mental health to be recorded and handled appropriately.
Finally, I should like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur once again. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, as others have already said, a little under a year ago in this very place, when the SARS epidemic was at its height, we called for the creation of a European centre to deal with modern day epidemics; so far as its tasks were concerned, at any rate, it would be modelled on the Atlanta CDC.
This centre will also&#160;–&#160;and I am not the first to say or reiterate it today&#160;– (and why not?) have to create a European network of laboratories and contribute to the search for vaccines for these diseases that are still resistant to antibiotics.
In this connection, I note Commissioner Byrne’s commitment –&#160;as he said just now&#160;– to push the limits of the Treaty as far as he can in the matter.
I also congratulate the rapporteur on his immense efforts in negotiations with the Council to reach an agreement at first reading.
Ready for the entrance of ten new countries, the Union should aim to provide all health systems with the instruments, means and knowledge to create an effective synergy between all Member States and, in that way, to guarantee the coherence of the Union’s action proposed by the Centre.
Over the last twenty years, there have been reports of thirty new infectious diseases, or variations on old diseases caused by mutating viruses, or even the re-emergence of old diseases such as tuberculosis, to give but one example.
All these crises in the public health sector, such as SARS and bird flu recently, have highlighted the weaknesses and gaps in existing structures.
However, if its work is to be satisfactory and efficient, it must be the central reference and coordination point for all the national surveillance centres and reference centres and laboratories of the Member States.
With relatively few people, based a long way away in the north of the European Union, in Sweden, it will have to maintain intensive contact with all the Member States; it will have to motivate their health ministries, spend money and build up information networks, at the same time as maintaining contact with the Commission and with Parliament.
As my fellow-Members have spoken about this Centre in great detail, I have to say what I would have liked to have seen.
The agency for communicable diseases will be an immensely important body in the Union as infectious diseases have proved to be a major safety risk.
Bird flu has been a conspicuous topic of discussion recently, and AIDS is still unbeaten, to say nothing of older communicable diseases such as tuberculosis.
Furthermore, the threat of bioterrorism is unfortunately a real one, as the anthrax letters we saw in 2001 showed.
Under the Treaties the EU has a clear obligation here, and there are functional reasons that reinforce it: joint action in the preservation of public health and prevention of disease is more effective.
The regulation under discussion thus intends to establish the agency promised for Sweden in the package agreed at the European Council in December.
The latter only gives rise to national chauvinism, and that should be curbed where possible by revising the decision-making structures. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the creation of a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has never been so important.
The recent SARS outbreak, the current threat of a biological terrorist attack and even the current Asian bird flu crisis illustrate the threat from disease in the global village that we live in today.
The threat to Europe's health from the rapid spread of disease is real and present.
Every one of them could pose a threat to global health security.
Global warming threatens even Britain with diseases such as malaria, while diseases such as TB are already returning.
In today's world no one country can afford to go it alone.
When it comes to tackling disease, Europe works.
The European Commission was able to ban chicken imports from countries affected by the new strain of bird flu with immediate effect.
Without the EU, it would have required an enormous effort to coordinate the actions of all 15 – and soon 25 – Member States.
So I am pleased that Tory MEPs will also back this plan today.
However, I wonder how they can square that with their own hostility to Europe and their policy of attacking the EU at every turn.
The centre will contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the prevention and monitoring of human diseases in the EU.
I agree that accessibility to information for the public is vital, and that is why the centre should have its own website to communicate its work and to publish its opinions.
I am all in favour of subsidiarity; I am not in favour of a European super-authority, nor of total harmonisation of health care provision, but this is where European action is right, as we saw from the many examples given in this morning’s debate on avian influenza.
I think it right that we should take a pragmatic approach, by starting with communicable diseases – which are the most urgent problem at the moment – and then see where we go from there.
Many Members of this House have made reference to bio-terrorism.
Over three months ago, I addressed a question on this issue to the Council, which it should, in the normal course of events, have answered after six weeks.
The political pressure to have the centre set up and running as soon as possible reflects the needs and concerns of European citizens.
For the Europe of today, where millions of people cross national borders every day, we need to be in a position to take rapid, coordinated action at EU level to best protect the health of our citizens.
By pooling our scientific expertise and reinforcing our rapid alert systems, the ECDC will allow better preparation and swifter and more effective responses to disease outbreaks.
In summing up this morning's debate, I would like to focus on three central issues in the proposal which have been key areas of concern: the mission and the tasks of the centre; the possible extension of its sphere of operation; and the composition of the management board.
To enable the centre to start, and for it to make an impact, the Commission is prepared to accept this approach, but it means that when the question of the need to extend its remit arises we should – and would – expect Parliament and the Council to address such a proposal rapidly, under the codecision procedure.
The Commission can accept the extension of the membership of the advisory forum to stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations and academics.
The management board should steer policy and make decisions.
The Commission’s proposal balances this dual responsibility in a way which we consider to be the most efficient and transparent.
This approach is based on the principles defined in the Commission communication on the governance of European Agencies.
In a resolution adopted last month, Parliament welcomed this communication, recognising the need to limit the size of the boards of the agencies.
The Commission wants to follow a consistent approach on this matter, as currently each agency seems to follow a different path.
I now note that the Council and Parliament have reached agreement on a board for the ECDC to consist of one representative per Member State, three from the Commission and two from Parliament.
The Commission considers that a board of 30 members is unwieldy and may hamper the decision-making process.
The Commission notes, however, the terms of the compromise supported by Council and Parliament and is therefore willing, despite our concerns, to go along with this compromise, given the importance that it attaches to the rapid establishment of the centre.
The Commission notes that the evaluation provided for in Article 31 of the regulation will cover the working practises of the centre, including the composition and functioning of the management board.
I conclude by thanking the rapporteur and Parliament.
When I formulated this idea in my mind some years ago, I not only got the support that I would expect from my own services, but also very strong support from Parliament.
We have discussed it in the last debate here in Parliament.
We can proudly say to our citizens that we are responding well and quickly to their needs in relation to issues associated with communicable disease.
Incomes are in fact the barometer of the viability of farms.
But if farmers are eliminated and concentration accelerates, we risk moving away from the European model we advocate, which involves the presence of farmers on all territories.
Firstly, the average agricultural income in the Europe of the 15 rose by 7% with large national variations, for example +32% in Portugal and –30% in the United Kingdom.
This question is all the more serious because the application of multifunctionality is going to result in higher production costs even though public support is set to decline for farmers of the 15 Member States between now and 2013, chiefly because of the rise in Community support for agriculture in the ten new countries.
The most recent CAP reform includes positive steps forward in this direction, especially with the conditionality and modulation of aids.
Our European agricultural model was legitimate in its conception.
The Member States are currently engaged in implementing as part of their national policies the Luxembourg Conclusions on reform of the common agricultural policy.
Our starting point is that, in accordance with the Brussels Conclusions, the agricultural budget was capped.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats takes the view that there are fundamental objectives to be achieved by means of the common agricultural policy.
It is for that reason that we believe, firstly, that the retention of the level of public subsidies for agriculture is justified, in particular to reward the multifunctional services it renders to society and to ensure that farmers remain present in all regions, as is provided for in the first pillar.
In the hope of turning these principles into reality, we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a number of amendments, to which – as I mentioned at the start of my speech – we have been able to secure the rapporteur’s agreement.
For example, our specific proposals include the introduction of a system of disaster payments, which is already the practice in other great agricultural nations.
We specifically demand that a large proportion of the funds available remain, insofar as possible, in the hands of farmers.
We must therefore take the funds available in the agriculture budget and apply them, in a Europe of 25 Member States, in such a way that the competitiveness of working farmers in the market is supported.
The fact is that high-quality food, for example that produced in accordance with high standards of protection for the environment and for animals, comes at a price; it is not to be had for free.
The decoupling of payments from production was long overdue.
We Social Democrats support compensatory payments for farmers because they have to be rewarded appropriately for the services that they perform in the general interest within a multifunctional system and which the prices paid do not cover.
For the engine in our cars we buy only the best and most expensive petrol, but when it comes to the body, which is our own engine, without which we cannot exist and which is meant to work for at least 100 years without spluttering, most of us are completely indifferent to what we put into it.
Allow me to address a number of points I think are important.
We have seen how it has increased in my own country following the latter’s accession to the EU.
This is important, something that is also pointed out in the report.
When the agricultural reform is implemented at different speeds, there is a danger of making further changes to competitiveness or of creating an uneven playing field in the different countries where competitiveness is concerned.
This is an area I am concerned about.
I do not believe that this is realistic in the long term.
I do not believe it is realistic to retain far-reaching market regulation or prices set by politicians, nor to have a regulated supply of the type we have involving quotas.
We must seek to reduce border protection in order to cope with world trade.
As a result of these considerations, I and many others in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will unfortunately abstain from voting.
We cannot vote in favour of this report but, in view of all the plus points I mentioned at the beginning, we cannot vote against it, either.
We shall no doubt abstain from voting in the final vote, because it is only a single vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, underlying the whole report is the fundamental idea that people in the European Community – and in all its regions, widely divergent in their structure though they are – have a job and hence an entitlement to an income commensurate with what they produce.
The principal causes of the changes in costs over recent years are well-known.
More and more people in Europe’s rural areas are doing more than one job, and so every euro that is not spent on structural planning and development in rural areas – I am talking in terms of billions – is always associated with the loss of income and jobs.
My expectation, though, is that, as the market organisation develops further, we will be able to answer the question of what an appropriate income for farmers actually is.
In Germany, farmers’ incomes have dropped dramatically, by 6.1% and 19.8% in the last two financial years.
That amounts to an overall economic crash.
Decoupling has facilitated the removal of the twofold price distortions brought about by payments, which tended to keep prices down and thus gave customers the opportunity to get their hands on cheap raw materials, in that the linking of grants to production – which was itself unequally distributed – meant that between 75% and 80% of this State aid was claimed by between 20% and 25% of farms.
This is not just about the distributing chains, but also about the cooperatives, some of them managed by farmers, which pursue their price and market policies in decision-making bodies, and it is about better payments for raw materials – agricultural raw materials.
You have also made it clear that we now have to talk about modulation and about different ways of distributing these funds.
The recent hearing on farm income must surely have alerted all of us to the challenges facing EU farmers.
It is easy to understand their frustration as they see their purchasing power eroded and their general quality of life under attack on many fronts.
We have a treaty basis for ensuring that farmers and their families are guaranteed a decent standard of living.
We also have an obligation to maintain the European model of agriculture, which is based on family farm units and keeping a vibrant rural community.
In conclusion, this report highlights important challenges that we legislators and policy-makers have to face up to.
It is now essential that agricultural policy should still be used to protect and improve the incomes of as many householders as possible within the European Union and to guarantee a secure future for our farmers and their families. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this report is a good initiative and I congratulate its author.
In fact, it brings us up to date on agricultural incomes just before the application of CAP reform and the enlargement of the European Union.
It will therefore serve us as a reference document in a few years’ time, when, I hope, we shall be meeting together in this Assembly again to consider the consequences of the reform for our farmers’ incomes.
Will the accession of ten new countries that are themselves highly agricultural and the alignment of European agricultural prices with world prices bring us a better future?
This report underlines some important facts, in particular the 7% increase in European agricultural incomes over seven years, which hides many disparities between regions and sectors and is rooted in a degradation of the European agricultural model, as the rapporteur pointed out in his address.
In ten years, one quarter of Europe’s farmers have vanished, farms have become larger and production has intensified.
Some French small farmers have such low incomes that the French Government gives them access to the ‘integration minimum income’, a system of social support reserved for the most deprived.
Between 1988 and 2000, the number of farms there fell by 40% and the number of dairy farms halved.
At the same time, farm areas increased 65% and the number of cows per farm 30%.
Decoupled aids are not a viable solution for the farmer.
According to the Nantes INRA study, in 2008 partial decoupling could result in as much as a 32% drop in simulated income for an intensive dairy farmer because the decoupled aids will not compensate for the 20% fall in the price of milk envisaged for 2006-2008.
The drafting of this report gave an opportunity to consult a number of experts on the subject.
The incomes of farmers who are already fragile and who have little capacity to invest will be reduced.
This report puts its finger on the painful points of the common agricultural policy and its latest reform, and I can only welcome these facts being brought out into the open.
However, some parts of the report remain ambiguous and I cannot support them.
I cannot ask the Member States, and I quote: ‘to ensure that partial decoupling is actually applied’, because I have always opposed any form of decoupling, be it partial or total.
The first pillar, which allows farmers to maintain a lucrative price for agricultural products, cannot be weakened in order to subsidise the second.
This Parliamentary report has the merit of clearly presenting some important and sometimes painful realities of the common agricultural policy.
However, it includes an ambiguous support for key aspects of the CAP reform, against which my group has spoken out, and that is why I will find it very difficult to support it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President – unfortunately I cannot add ‘Commissioner Fischler’, as his seat is empty – ladies and gentlemen, the interest of this own-initiative report on trends in agricultural incomes in the European Union lies more in the questions it raises than in the answers it seeks to give.
If the average income of the Community farmer – an abstract and therefore artificial statistical concept – has not already collapsed further despite the policy of systematically cutting prices, it has been at the price of very severe restructurings characterised by a dramatic reduction in the number of people working on farms and a very rapid increase in the concentration of farms together with the intensification of production.
But if we want to maintain the greatest number of farmers on all the territory of the Member States in future, we will no longer be able to have this trilogy of disappearance, concentration and intensiveness.
Neither can it count any longer on an increase in the agricultural budget to cover the extra costs that the new standards concerning multifunctionality demanded by society will entail.
The Netherlands accounts for 7% of agricultural production in the European Union, yet only receives 2.1% of the agricultural budget and 1% of the rural development budget.
Mr President, the fundamental objective of the CAP is to guarantee a fair standard of living for the agricultural population.
Europe needs multifunctional and viable agriculture, but this means that we must protect the European model, create a system of crisis management, guarantee employment and increase the resources dedicated to the second pillar.
Especially worthy of note are paragraph 7 – which the Commission should apply – which points out that the costs of production are tending to increase while aid is tending to decrease; paragraph 17, which relates to guaranteeing employment; and paragraphs 24 and 25 relating to the second pillar.
He notes that agricultural incomes rose by an average of 7% in the European Union as a whole from 1995 to 2002.
However, this increase is less than 1% per annum, meaning that it is much less than the average increase in GDP in the European Union over the same period and it concerns an economic sector in whose products the European Union has a deficit.
So exactly what social and multifunctional agriculture are we talking about when the differential between agricultural incomes per worker is over 1 to 50 and when 20% of large holdings take up 73% of direct Community aid?
Reality is not consistent with the contradictory and prefabricated conclusions of the report.
The common agricultural policy of extermination will be fought against by the small- and medium-sized farmers in my country and the European Union, who are realising more and more every day that overturning it is the only way they will survive and … &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the work of the rapporteur in bringing this own-initiative report together.
It strikes at the heart of the central question facing European agriculture at this crucial juncture, namely, whether the agricultural community can expect to make a fair living from its activities.
That means that small farms have been swallowed up by increasingly large farms and production that has become more intensive.
With consumers demanding more information on the means by which their food is produced, this trend is one that must be addressed.
The Duke of Westminster – Britain's richest man – receives EUR 1300 per day in agricultural subsidies, while small Welsh farmers are struggling to get by with as little as EUR 7000 per year. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, nature conservation, farms as family businesses, employment, safe food – these are all objectives to which we are trying to aspire with European agricultural policy.
I have checked with the researchers who supplied these figures whether this is correct.
If one looks at the actual difference in the farmer's wallet, then between 1995 and 2001, agricultural incomes in the EU did not rise, but fell, by 6%.
The rapporteur fears that agricultural support from the EU is losing its legitimacy in the eyes of the WTO.
However much I applaud rural policy, it cannot replace European agricultural policy.
This, at least, is something that will be of some use to the European farmer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the agricultural sector of the European Union faces many problems.
However, we cannot hope for a strong Greece unless we safeguard strong regions.
And strong regions mean strong farmers.
Regions without farmers mean a country without a future.
It is, at the same time, a huge social and moral issue.
The Commission is having a meeting on medium-term financial planning, and fairness requires that I, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, make it plain to the House that we think it important that Commissioner Fischler should be present at that meeting.
The debate on the Garot report will resume at 3 p.m.
As I made clear at first reading in October, this regulation is overdue, not least because these essential items of data, which are now to be forwarded on a quarterly basis, are of decisive importance to the Stability and Growth Pact, on which is founded the stability of the euro – about which you have heard a certain amount said in recent months.
The regulation could, then, have entered into force before the end of 2003, but that was not to be, mainly because a number of Member States discovered that they had not after all made sufficient preparations for the required data to be transferred so quickly.
Nevertheless, we are willing to agree to this more flexible approach to forwarding in order to avoid the further delays that would result if we were to insist on a conciliation procedure.
That might well have suited those Member States that have difficulty keeping to the Stability Pact and therefore have an interest in drawing a veil over the actual level of their public debt.
As we do not want to do these Member States a favour, I propose that we adopt the Common Position. &#160;&#160; Thank you Mrs Lulling.
Thanks to you, the European Parliament is now well informed.
The rest remains unchanged.
Your proposal related therefore to Amendment No 8.
When we arrive at Amendment No 8, I shall ask, in accordance with the procedure, if any Members are opposed to your oral amendment being taken into account.
In any case, I shall be brief.
The Social Protection Committee, which is intended to promote cooperation on social security policies between the Member States, the candidate countries and the Commission is one such initiative and therefore won my vote.
The committee must monitor the social security situation in the Member States and changes in this situation.
It must present reports, specifically on situations of poverty and social inclusion – deliver opinions, establish contacts and cooperate with the relevant bodies in this field.
The committee should inform Parliament in an efficient way so that Parliament can follow up this issue and Parliament’s position must be taken into account in all the activities of the Social Protection Committee.
It was brought about by the entry into force of the Treaty of Nice, on 1&#160;February 2003, in particular by the new legal basis set out in Article&#160;144 thereof, with the Commission and Parliament having taken the opportunity to make some changes to the approach they had adopted previously.
One of the proposals that the EP has adopted and which I tabled in the Committee of Employment and Social Affairs seeks to ensure that the joint report on social protection pays ‘particular attention to poverty issues and to progress in social inclusion within the EU Member States and in the accession countries’.
A Social Protection Committee, with a similar status and aims, was established by Council decision of 29&#160;June 2002, and has been operational since that date.
The purpose of this report is therefore essentially procedural: to establish the committee in accordance with the new legal basis.
Equally to be welcomed is the call for an annual report to be drawn up on social protection and for this to be presented to the Council and to Parliament.
In this regard, we believe that an effective process of informing Parliament must be established to enable it regularly to monitor social protection issues, in particular those related to poverty.
A Social Protection Committee, with a similar status and aims, was established by Council decision of 29&#160;June 2002, and has been operational since that date.
The purpose of this report is therefore essentially procedural: to establish the Council in accordance with the new legal basis.
Nevertheless, we must welcome the fact that this Council also has the tasks of monitoring the social situation.
It will also aim for a more structured engagement with NGOs and to pay particular attention to poverty-related issues.
I welcome the rapporteur’s proposal to call for a joint annual report to be drawn up and presented to the Council and the European Parliament.
This report must include a specific chapter containing Parliament’s views on social protection issues.
An effective process of information shall be established to permit the European Parliament to follow matters up on a regular basis, and the candidate countries must be informed and consulted.
There is a clear need for international cooperation, because no State is able to combat the consequences of a major maritime pollution accident on its own, and the aim of this cooperation must be to prevent and effectively combat such pollution.
There is no problem as regards the initiative’s compatibility with Community legislation, because this is even more stringent than the Protocol, since the Community has stepped up and strengthened its action in the field of preventing and combating maritime pollution.
One example of this is the set of initiatives that we adopted here during the last part-session. &#160;&#160; – I voted in favour of the report, for it is imperative to conduct a determined and coordinated battle against all forms of pollution in the Mediterranean.
This fight against pollution must be accompanied by a genuine preventive policy from further up the line.
State port control and cooperation between the maritime police of different coastal states need to be strengthened.
The fight against those who pollute the sea must be more effective and be accompanied by heavy penalties, with all parties involved in the goods transportation chain having to assume their share of responsibility.
These regional initiatives include the United Nations strategy to implement the Montego Bay Convention (the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea) and are mirrored by the Lisbon Agreement to protect the Northeast Atlantic.
The report also calls for more information to be provided on the costs of monitoring and inspection services operating in the Member States.
The European Union chose to divide this task between the Commission and the Member States.
Without completely rejecting the system chosen by the EU, Parliament must exert pressure to ensure a greater clarification of the competences of each party, the Commission on the one hand and the Member States on the other.
One such clarification might involve creating a Community Inspection Agency. – Mrs&#160;Stihler, as this is a report that falls under Rule 110 (b) of the Rules of Procedure, the explanations of vote can in theory only be given in writing.
That is why the Kindermann report is so important.
I am certain that these measures will make a real difference: a general restriction on the length of driftnets in the Baltic Sea from 1 July 2004, a further reduction in driftnet fishing by 1 January 2007; the compulsory use of acoustic deterrent devices and the introduction of a comprehensive system for monitoring the levels of dolphins and porpoises.
These policies show why it is important to have a common fisheries policy and if these measures become part of that policy, we will then have the full force of the law across the 25 Member States.
There are insufficient data to enable a precise calculation to be made of the number of by-catches of cetaceans in fishing nets and of the impact of these catches on populations.
Incorporating environmental requirements into the common fisheries policy also involves adopting measures designed to minimise the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems.
Recent scientific reports have shown that some deep-sea habitats are in need of protection against mechanical erosion caused by fishing gear.
Adopting this measure will bring substantial environmental benefits, without having a significant impact on the fisheries sector, because fishermen will be able to continue using drift-nets outside the fishing zone containing the Darwin Mounds, or, within the protected zone, using towed nets that do not come into contact with the seabed. &#160;&#160; The Attwooll report on the protection of the Darwin’s Mounds coral reefs from the effects of trawling has ceased to be so discriminatory and disproportionate in three crucial areas, thanks to the amendments that I tabled with the Committee on Fisheries and that have been adopted.
The Commission wanted to ban recourse to deep-sea trawlers well beyond the area of distribution of the Darwin’s Mounds.
The text now refers to the 2002 Advisory Committee on Ecosystems (ACE) report in order to define this area which, in fact, covers two distinct zones ten times less extensive than that defined by the Commission.
I agree with the need to ensure that Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty constitutes the legal basis for all measures relating to the ORs, including the fisheries sector.
I also agree on the importance of the compensation scheme for the additional costs incurred in the marketing of certain fishery products and with increasing the budget of the POSEI programmes.
The rapporteur rightly believes that there is, in many ways, a conflict between the CFP on the one hand, which was planned with the interests of continental Europe in mind and which applies to the outermost regions because of their status as an integral part of the Community, and, on the other, the specific needs of the outermost regions which came into being as a result of their specific geographical, economic and social characteristics.
First of all, increasing the eligibility of new species of fish from the outermost regions and maintaining aid for the construction of new vessels after 2006.
Next, increasing, as a matter of urgency, scientific research into fishery resources and finally creating fishing zones reserved exclusively for local fishermen.
I also greatly welcome the idea of establishing a fishing observatory in each outermost region, both to supervise fishing activities and to ensure better protection of fish resources and the environment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are talking about the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, one of the Members of which is, as you know, the Bahamas.
In 1965 I found myself in Nassau, the capital of the Bahamas; Paradise Island, a fairy tale place for tourists to the Bahamas.
Particularly significant is the setting-up of three standing committees, which could help the Assembly to become a genuine parliamentary assembly.
I believe the attention the JPA has paid to the rights of children and in particular to child soldiers, is to be lauded, as is the positive influence that its report had on this matter in the Council, which resulted in strategic guidelines being adopted on the unacceptable use of children in armed conflicts.
The JPA must strive to be more effective and efficient in preventing conflicts, become more actively involved in monitoring electoral and democratisation processes and promote the involvement of civil society in the work of the Joint Assembly and its standing committees, particularly when the JPA meets in ACP countries.
Despite my reservations arising from the conviction that the JPA could be more ambitious in these fields, I share the rapporteur’s view that these developments are broadly to be welcomed.
I am therefore voting in favour. &#160;&#160; Yesterday, Mr&#160;President, I closed my eyes for a moment to think about how I should explain my vote in favour of the Bowis report on disease prevention and control.
This is why&#160;–&#160;with the hope that this really happens–&#160;I voted in favour of his report. &#160;&#160; We Moderates believe it is one of the European Union’s tasks to prevent the outbreak of serious infectious diseases and, when they do occur, to coordinate the response.
With freedom of movement within the EU and rapid ways of transmitting infections across its borders, a European Centre could quickly take action to reduce and limit the effects and spread of outbreaks of disease.
We believe that the Commission’s proposals on important points are better than the European Parliament’s proposals, which is why we choose to support the Commission’s proposals. &#160;&#160; .
As we are aware there is an EU Communicable Diseases Network which has been in existence since 1999.
It has acted as a channel for occasional cooperation between Member States when they take measures against epidemics and other health risks.
An example of this would be the cooperation that was put in place for the different Member States of the EU concerning the fight against SARS last year.
However, several studies have revealed the long-term limitations of this arrangement.
The only concerted action by countries inside and outside the European Union can hope to check these dangers effectively.
The European Union must strive to improve cooperation and coordination between Member States in monitoring diseases.
I agree with the suggestion that this centre must have a contingency budget to allow it to address unforeseeable situations.
This centre must be created around the Community Communicable Diseases Network that comprises designated national bodies responsible for communicable diseases within Member States.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, one of the reasons why we abstained in the vote on this motion for a resolution was because we did not find the slightest mention in it of the grave discrimination contained in the Slovenian legislation on compensation – legislation that penalises refugees and their children for the terrible events that took place in the post-war period in these countries.
We therefore abstained on this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Katiforis presents a report on the role and methods of rating agencies.
He said ‘I am running so that I arrive to present my report before the collapse of Parmalat in Italy.
Rating agencies wield great power in the financial market, since rating is a legal condition of eligibility for investment portfolios.
Additionally, the ratings ‘market’ is highly concentrated and the biggest agencies, two of which have their headquarters in the USA – one gave Parmalat a positive rating – operate an oligarchy.
As a self-regulating instrument of regulation, the rating agencies serve to extend the liberalisation of the capital markets.
We have therefore voted against this report. &#160;&#160; .– To economists, major profit-making international businesses, based in Europe, America or Japan, are often the benchmark for the developing countries, which would automatically prosper if those businesses were given the freedom to take over loss-making activities and export raw materials.
For centuries, the economy in those countries was controlled by the north, as a result of which they were forced to produce cheap products for the market of rich countries, to the detriment of their domestic economy and the provision of services to their own people.
The term ‘cooperation’means supporting the development of companies in third countries, as suggested in the title of the first communication that laid the basis for the report; it also means reforming State-owned companies, which are the basis of public services in these countries, and the need to assess all possible solutions, as suggested in the title of the second.
The fight against poverty is the main objective of EU development policy.
History shows that state monopolies have often led to economic inefficiency, mismanagement, corruption and injustice in developing countries.
Particularly in the case of services for the benefit of everyone, such as the supply of water and energy, together with education and health, the state sector has failed in the majority of these countries.
The report is therefore in line with the Commission’s assessment that the fight against poverty can only seriously be taken up through the objective consideration of all the alternatives for reform with a view to increasing economic growth and countering corruption.
Clear legal framework regulations must stand as guarantees of the right to services for the benefit of all.
Although the directive has been in force since October 1999, in new installations and existing installations where the operator intends to carry out significant changes, a transitional period has been granted until October 2007, which requires special support to be granted to industrial SMEs and to farmers.
Concepts such as ‘cross-compliance’ in the technical conditions of operating licences, sharing best practices and defining best available techniques (BATs), are just some of the ways in which we can ensure the integrated prevention and reduction of pollution resulting from a wide range of industrial and agricultural activities, and in which we can reach a higher level of environmental protection.
Within the framework of the 1996 Directive under consideration, a system of permits for new installations is established, which forces operators to adopt pollution prevention measures.
Secondly, there is a limited number of qualified researchers.
The June Movement’s three Members of the European Parliament, Ulla Sandbæk, Jens-Peter Bonde and Bent Hindrup Andersen, chose to vote against the report, a decision for which the following explanation of vote was given.
In principle, the June Movement believes that all attempts by the EU to dominate the ICES should be voted down.
There are therefore two crucial issues: - The first entails fishermen taking an active role in the management of fishing effort and participating in the evaluation of studies into resources in conjunction with investigators and scientists.
It is therefore important that we create suitable bodies that enable effective communication between all those concerned; - The second entails a thorough evaluation of the socio-economic impact of stock recovery measures or measures aimed at reducing the fishing effort.
The implementation of these measures, which is sometimes voluntary on the part of the fishermen, as happens in Portugal in the case of sardines, requires compensation at public, national and Community level.
The limits placed on fishing in the EU have had devastating socio-economic consequences.
Portugal has been particularly hard hit by such measures, especially in the conversion of activities and in the destruction of large parts of the national fishing fleet.
I should like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of the rapporteur.
It is in this light that we see the importance of this issue and the need to improve the quality of this advice.
My vote in favour of this report is, therefore, also an expression of solidarity with Portuguese fishermen, who have been so severely affected by the Commission’s – and in particular Commissioner Fischler’s – Fisheries Policy. &#160;&#160; – The Lage report rightly emphasises that the management measures adopted by the European Union are too often based upon faulty and unreliable scientific diagnoses.
The socio-economic consequences of management measures adopted on such a flimsy basis are considerable: it is the very survival of entire fisheries and, indeed, entire industries that is at stake.
Such a development should permit an approach that is no longer brutal and irreversible but gradual, progressive, flexible and continuously adaptable.
Farmers have a right to decent incomes.
The guarantee of profitable producer prices must, therefore, be the guiding premise of the common agricultural policy, in order to ensure farmers a decent standard of living on a par with other sectors of activity.
It has, furthermore, exacerbated the injustice of the uneven allocation of agricultural production aid among producers, production and countries.
It is this model that, twelve years after the 1992 CAP reform, perpetuates the profound injustice that 20% of the major holdings receive 80% of aid.
In Portugal, 1% of the major holdings receive almost half of this aid, a situation that we have always contested.
The current reform of the CAP, with the decoupling of production aid based on historical references, perpetuates this imbalance.
The decision not to proceed with genuine modulation and the establishment of aid limits was something of a missed opportunity.
Aid should not be simply a matter of transferring money to rural development, but should instead act to offset the profound inequalities in the distribution of aid among farmers and countries.
The consumer price index rose, in fact, during the period concerned by around 11%, while the producer price index fell by more than 1%.
A determining – and worrying – factor in this situation is the gradual deregulation of the CAP’s market mechanisms, in addition to the fact that these mechanisms discriminate between continental and Mediterranean production.
It is also important, as the rapporteur advocates, that we provide adequate external protection for agriculture and that we create Community mechanisms enabling us to intervene in any disaster that may befall the sector.
Increasing the agriculture budget would make it possible to offer compensation to farmers in the least-favoured regions or to those on lower incomes.
I would therefore like to mention that hill and mountain farming does not represent a secondary aspect of European agriculture as a whole: it covers 20% of the useful agricultural area and 30% of land; and 5% of European citizens live in mountain areas.
The specific nature of mountain areas needs to be explicitly recognised in the Treaties and in structural measures, and we need to have the courage to act with determination to overcome, as far as possible, the restrictions of State aid. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this area is extremely complex, but it is most important that we address it to ensure the continuing viability of our farms and rural areas.
Irish aggregate farm income increased by 2.2% in 2003 to EUR 2.524 billion, and estimated direct payments of EUR 1.6 billion accounted for 64% of this figure.
Our farm survey shows that the average family farm income fell by 5.8% in 2002 to EUR 14&#160;900.
There are large variations, depending on the size of the farm and the system of farming.
For instance, in 2002 average farm family income on the 40% of farms classified as full-time was EUR 27&#160;760.
However, farm household incomes are becoming increasingly diversified.
The 1999-2000 household budget survey shows that almost 60% of farm household income now comes from non-farm sources, contributing to the future viability of many farms.
According to the most recent Eurostat estimate, average income per full-time job equivalent, adjusted to inflation, fell by 0.6% in Ireland in 2003, compared to an average increase of 0.9% in the EU as a whole.
The distribution of direct payments in Ireland may be more equitable than in other EU countries, as there are relatively few very large farms, particularly arable farms.
While the top 20% in the EU receive 73% of direct aid, our farm survey shows that approximately 40% of payments went to the 20% of farmers with the highest family farm income.
The concept of crisis management systems needs careful handling.
The purpose of the mid-term review reform is to promote competitiveness while securing the income of farmers in a situation where payments would no longer be coupled to production.
Redistribution would also impact on production decisions by farmers, whereas the intention was to respond to market signals rather than force change upon them because of a fundamental change in the level of support.
The CAP reform has changed the policy framework to ensure a more market-oriented and sustainable agriculture and food industry.
The options for decoupling direct payments will allow these payments to be made safe from WTO challenges and so protect their contribution to farm incomes and to the rural economy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as regards the economic aspect, I can only congratulate Mr&#160;Garot on his articulate and accurate report.
It is a report, which, not least, rekindles some of the issues and questions that we have put to the Commission during the current term: for example, the establishment of sectoral contracts to increase the level of quality, if necessary, but in any case to guarantee quality in agriculture; access to the European market for products from third countries that are subject to the same standards as European products; and a crisis management system.
Furthermore, the report calls for consideration of the fact that the reduction and the fall in agricultural prices has not in fact had any effect on consumption.
Having said that, however, and at a purely theoretical level&#160;–&#160;and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development know my position as regards the proposal for mid-term revision&#160;–&#160;I believe that we have taken on a huge responsibility, the effects of which we will be able to analyse only in a few years’ time, since the formula chosen for regulating the markets and stabilising prices&#160;–&#160;aid for production that is direct, fixed and de-coupled –&#160;will lead us to gradually dismantle the agricultural sector.
We have seen the results of Cancún, and we have seen how the talks at Geneva have been resumed.
Among other things, I believe that some figures in the Garot report&#160;–&#160;the 7% increase in agricultural prices from 1995 to 2002&#160;–&#160;refer to historical prices and do not, for example, take into account the inflation rate that has a marked effect upon agricultural prices.
Income policy in the agricultural sector has a direct influence on the attractiveness of the farming life, and consequently on the continuation of agricultural production; connected with the effect it has on rural development.
Europe’s farmers enjoy very widely differing levels of income.
Between 1995 and 2002 alone, the number of farms in the EU has decreased by an average of 15.7%.
European farmer’s income consists in part of direct payments and not merely of production yield; moreover, the fall in prices for basic agricultural produce bears no relation to the way the prices paid by consumers for food have changed.
Farmers’ understanding of their own occupational role and their social status increasingly depend on to what extent the agricultural policy promotes farming enterprise.
It is at this that the individual instruments must be targeted, but the common agricultural policy must not permit the first pillar to be played against the second.
Agricultural economics is a very important subject for the development of thriving rural areas.
Thriving rural areas are entirely dependent upon the existence of profitable farms.
In a Europe in which 50% of farmers are over 55 years of age and only eight per cent under 35, a whole new attitude to agriculture’s entrepreneurs is required.
If I were now asked to give advice to people who had recently started up a farm, I would reply that they should make their financial calculations without reference to funding by society and not rely upon the good will of politicians.
The report contains a number of points I cannot support.
A second point emphasises the importance of ‘maintain[ing] the level of public support for agriculture’ and the significance of creating ‘conditions that will guarantee employment’ and so forth.
In a country like Sweden, these words do not correspond to reality.
The debate is closed.
Many agri-businesses in Scotland are facing major pressure on net incomes.
In addition to the farm-gate price pressures which all farmers face, Scots producers, especially those in Highland and Island areas, have to cope with high costs of transportation and other challenges such as climatic conditions.
This does not do justice to the importance of agriculture, and it must also be noted that the research into agriculture announced in this Framework Programme is to a large extent aimed at rationalising production rather than at the sustainability issue.
Let me return, though, to this morning’s consideration of avian influenza.
The former have developed an immune system that can deal with certain diseases, but now have to contend with genetic defects capable of affecting the immune system of the indigenous breeds.
It is no longer competitive, because these countries work to different social, environmental and hygienic standards.
I have mentioned subsistence farming, which is an important source of food not only in these countries, but also in the EU’s new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe.
In this report, we have attached the utmost importance to the question of the role played by women in the work done.
Most women working in industrialised farming work in less-valued jobs, whereas, in other fields of agricultural activity, they tend to play leading roles on which the maintenance of these landscapes depends.
The Commission welcomes this report, which we see as a good basis on which to prepare the Seventh Framework Programme for research and technological development, and as something of which it can make use.
As you are aware, the decoupled payments under the new common agricultural policy will enable farmers not only to become more competitive, but also to respond better to the market’s requirements.
This is where research can also make an essential contribution to improvement, by helping to develop more efficient production processes, by means of diversification and by introducing new and competitive crops.
It can also help enable farmers to fulfil the demands of what we term cross-compliance, and, above all, to provide a sound scientific basis for our understanding of good agricultural and environmental practice, that is, of what is meant by a healthy condition.
What the regions want and need is set out in the rural development programmes, in which local stakeholders, civil society and the scientific community must also be involved.
That was one of the conclusions reached at last year’s conference in Salzburg.
Let me now briefly address some of the statements and recommendations made in the report.
The Commission gives priority to research into alternative production methods and sources of income in rural areas, as well as to the endeavour to get away from the piecemeal approach in favour of research into the whole chain – in a sense, from the farm to the table.
Issues of the safety and quality of food continue to play a very special part in this.
These considerations prompted the organisation of the conference ‘Science at the service of society’ on14 and 15 October 2002, and a second conference on this subject will be held in February 2005.
Research into improved marker vaccines must be extended to include other diseases on list A, although budget limits must of course be adhered to.
In both these areas there is the ever-worsening problem of dwindling interest on the part of private-sector researchers, it being apparent that profits will not be as high as they would be if large quantities of medicines or plant protection products were involved.
As its predecessors did, the current Framework Programme funds projects in the field of environmentally-friendly cultivation and related to low-cost farming methods, although it must be remembered in this context that, particularly when we are in the middle of a WTO negotiating round, there is also a need to produce research material relevant to international issues and, in particular, also to issues relating to developing countries.
I would not wish to conclude this speech without mentioning the fact that we must not simply ignore research into biotechnology, for it is another area in which we can expect results of potential use to us in the agricultural sphere, provided that sufficiently intensive research is carried out.
The sixth framework programme for research currently has a budget of around EUR 16&#160;billion, of which a maximum of 2% may be allocated to agriculture and rural development.
This very welcome own-initiative report calls for an increase in the funding allocated to agricultural research from the EU’s research budget.
We have made a clear decision in favour of the European model of agriculture, which means that we are committed to maintaining multifunctional and sustainable farming in all regions of Europe.
To conserve resources in response to socio-economic and environmental conditions, further research in the areas of organic farming, extensive agricultural management and, above all, non-food production is essential.
As the report points out, priority should be given to improvements in yield security, quality of life and environmental compatibility.
On-farm research is an indispensable tool in the integration of nature conservation and agriculture, and above all in the sustainable maintenance and use of organic habitats in the agricultural landscape.
This report is intended to draw attention to the fact that agriculture research is also important for society and should be given greater priority.
Again, I welcome this report on behalf of my group.
At the vote in committee, greater priority was given to biotechnological research than was originally the case in the report, as we took the view at the outset that biotechnological research already has good programmes.
A well-functioning rural environment is inseparably linked with a well-functioning system of agriculture.
As a representative of farmers and rural regions, I welcome this report, and it is our genuine hope that these demands will finally be heard in the seventh framework programme for research. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the common agricultural policy is beginning the greatest transformation of its entire history; it would therefore be a serious mistake to keep research within parameters which have become obsolete.
The Commissioner has told us that the Sixth programme is being applied – and the report says this – but nevertheless I believe that we do have time for the Commissioner to introduce certain modifications relating to the role of women in rural development, as it appears he is going to do.
It is also very important that the drawing up of this Seventh Framework Programme for Research should reflect this approach, which considers research into sustainable agriculture and rural development.
For all of these reasons, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again and ask the Commissioner to change this approach as soon as possible and allocate the funds requested today by the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this own-initiative report on agriculture and agricultural research has my full support.
I hope, of course, as previous speakers have already said, that the Commission will draw the right conclusions, for the CAP reform in particular has brought about a paradigm shift in European agriculture and I hope that scientific monitoring will be effective here in future too.
I think it is right, and would like to reiterate here, that the budget for the next framework programme has been set on the basis of proposed projects.
In the settlement of the current programme, it will be very interesting to see exactly what has happened.
Agricultural research is generally multiannual, and I have been told about projects undertaken within this multiannual research framework that have never entered their final phase due to budget cutbacks.
The Member States are also very keen on cutting research funding.
In the previous debate, complex issues relating to more intensive research into income and income generation options were discussed in more detail.
It will be very interesting to see how this will look in future, who will be dealing with it, and in which areas, under which conditions and with which assumptions.
Everything else, however, has been set out so comprehensively in the report that it requires no further comment from me. &#160;&#160; Mr President, recent CAP reform will result in some fundamental changes, particularly at farm level.
The decoupling of payments from production provides a new freedom to farm with, I hope, new opportunities.
If we believe, as I do, that the European agricultural model must be multifunctional and sustainable, equally it must be commercially viable and competitive.
On the basis that the sector is likely to enjoy budget stability until 2013, we must use this time to initiate practical research as to how best to achieve this objective.
Two per cent of the current EU research budget for the entire agricultural sector does not facilitate the achievement of this objective.
The debate is closed.
The Council discussed the recovery plan for hake in December 2003 and accepts some of the proposed amendments set out in the report: firstly, we have now deleted fishing effort from the proposal.
Secondly, we have reduced the minimum safe level according to the precautionary approach from 143&#160;000 tonnes to 140&#160;000, and the critical limit from 103&#160;000 tonnes to 100&#160;000, as recommended by the scientists.
Despite these amendments, the objective remains the same.
If the size of the stock falls below the minimum level, the Council must reduce the TAC.
Finally, the proposal also contains measures for more effective control of vessels catching North Sea hake, as well as provisions for the prior notification of landings.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we are delighted to have you with us.
The Commission proposal establishing a plan for the recovery of the Northern hake stock is made by virtue of the new provisions laid down in the framework regulation reforming the CFP.
This new legislation, which in principle covers species that are under particular threat, is combined with a new instrument, management by fishing effort, which comes on top of the instruments already in place, in particular the setting of TACs and quotas.
It in fact turns out to be the second link in a long chain because, since it was tabled, two further plans with exactly the same structure have been referred to Parliament, concerning Southern hake, Norway lobster in the Cantabrian Sea and sole in the Bay of Biscay and the Channel, and we are told that further plans are in the pipeline, in respect in particular of Norway lobster and plaice.
This point should be stressed, all the more so because it would seem that when a fishing undertaking fishes stocks under different recovery plans, it is obliged to comply with the provisions of all of the recovery plans concerned, both for catches from stocks subject to recovery measures and catches from stocks of similar species.
This is what arises in particular from the written answer dated 9&#160;February that you have just sent me, Commissioner, in response to a question that I had asked you.
This is a particularly onerous constraint for the industry, especially in areas where the Commission intends to superimpose several recovery plans that apply to practically all of the species fished, and I am thinking in particular of those in the Bay of Biscay.
Originally, the Commission had planned to deal with cod and Northern hake stocks together, despite the fact that these two species have very different characteristics.
Our committee drafted its report after holding in-depth consultations with representatives of the industry concerned, notably at a hearing in Brussels on 25&#160;November that was attended by representatives of the French, Spanish and British trade organisations.
They expressed particular regret that they had not been properly involved in drafting the recovery plan or in producing the assessment of the state of the stock on which the recovery plan is based, contrary to the provisions of the new framework regulation and contrary to what Parliament had called for, in particular in its opinion on integrating environmental protection requirements into the CFP.
We were told that the regional workshop organised by the Commission was more like an information session on decisions that had already been taken than a meeting involving genuine consultation prior to any decision.
In fact, it is clear that the drastic reduction in total allowable catches (TACs) planned for the very beginning of the plan is incompatible with the survival of undertakings involved in fishing Northern hake.
They told us of their fear that superimposing a new management system on the system of TACs and quotas and on the specific management measures already adopted might jeopardise the principle of relative stability and contribute to an increase in discards.
They also doubt that a system for reducing fishing effort can effectively achieve the desired result in terms of improving stocks.
Furthermore, the extremely complex effort reduction formula entails serious problems of equity and predictability for the Member States.
Your Committee on Fisheries considered the multiannual approach that was adopted to address the issue of the management of the Northern hake stock to be perfectly well-founded and appropriate.
This approach actually sets an essential conservation objective for the long term, while at the same time giving fishermen the visibility and security that they need to guarantee the survival of their businesses, which is no less essential.
Nevertheless, it seemed to us that establishing a plan for the recovery of the Northern hake stock was a measure that was disproportionate to the state of the stock concerned as revealed by the latest scientific reports and observations of fishermen.
As the Northern hake stock is not outside safe biological limits, it would not seem appropriate to us to apply a recovery plan to it under Article&#160;5 of the framework regulation.
This instrument would appear to us to be preferable because it corresponds better to the state of the resource and will better enable us to achieve the twofold objective of the sustainable conservation of the stock and the conservation of our fisheries.
Firstly, the Commission presented us with a proposal which, initially, was combined with cod – and which our Parliament rejected, as has been said already.
Secondly, it made a separate, but very rigid and severe, proposal, which compared Northern hake with cod, with a genuine recovery plan and with fishing effort.
I would like to draw the Commission's attention to this issue: it is a genuine management plan without fisheries effort, in accordance with the sector's request.
The Souchet report is coherent, solid, reasonable and combines the defence of sustainable and responsible fishing of Northern hake with the social and economic aspects of the fisheries sector.
And more importantly: in the future, the FIFG will have to provide for socio-economic measures so that, when any recovery or management plan is adopted, it is automatically accompanied by the corresponding socio-economic measures.
When we move on to the analysis of the measures proposed, we discover that the Commission is not taking account of the best scientific information available, nor is it dispelling the doubts of the fisheries industry, since once again there has been no dialogue with the scientists and the proposal has been drawn up without the serious participation of professionals.
The precautionary biomass should have been established on the basis of these scientific reports which do not exist.
Neither does it appear that this biomass is in proportion to the state of the stock affected, since the latest independent scientific reports and observations of professionals demonstrate that it is not below the safe biological limits.
Neither do we have scientific evaluations from the ICES which guarantee to us that the reduction of fishing effort proposed will lead to an effective reduction in catches, nor an evaluation of the effects of the technical recovery measures – which I referred to earlier – which have been applied for two years and have had such good results.
Neither does the Commission’s proposal seek a balance between biological recovery and socio-economic repercussions.
The recovery plan proposed had a number of positive elements, including a formula for setting TACs and a reduction in fishing effort.
Council even went one step further by increasing the TACs for hake by almost a third where the Commission had recommended a reduction.
In December 2002 it was announced with great ado that the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy was a great success and, amongst other things, it was said that recovery plans with effort reduction were to be applied.
As an indication of the seriousness of the situation the Commission recommended cuts of greater than 10% for a quarter of them – that was 49 stocks.
For 42 stocks it set TACs that were more than 10% higher than the Commission's proposal.
If this is the way Council and the Fisheries Committee are going to continue they are basically proving correct the cynics and all those who said that the reform of the common fisheries policy was not going to see any achievable result in relation to sustainable fishing.
The Commission is too soft on this issue and it needs to be more radical.
It must listen to ICES' advice to ensure the survival of the fishing industry in Europe, otherwise we are basically voting for its demise.
It is regrettable that the Fisheries Committee could actually reduce what was already an inadequate proposal by the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, better a whole lie than a half-truth – that is how I would like to paraphrase a well-known proverb, the truth of which I am experiencing first-hand these days.
It is namely the case that one of my fellow MEPs suggested to the press that the Dutch members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and also of my own group, never reimburse any of their travelling expenses.
Radio, television and newspapers accepted this piece of information without checking it out properly.
I am aware that many fishermen are in a similar situation.
They do not have to fight a lie but a half-truth.
Relying on ill-defined data, the Commission is proposing a drastic reduction in the quantity of fish to be caught.
A control plan for Northern hake with adequate monitoring and enforcement is sufficient in order to offer this fish species a future.
I congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
These plans are well under way and constitute an essential part of the CFP reform package.
Cuts as proposed would have devastated the sector and caused widespread socio-economic hardship.
I am glad that the Commission has revised these proposals in the wake of strong representations from the sector.
We all have an interest in seeing the long-term recovery of Northern hake.
However, we also have a duty to sustain the livelihood of fishermen and to protect fishing communities.
This plan for the Northern hake stock was adopted in December, and the objective was clear: to protect the stocks and obtain an acceptable level of security.
The truth is that the Council and the Commission together have weakened the original proposal so that it no longer complies with that objective.
Economics and social problems, which are always referred to, are also important issues but, if we do not apply the precautionary principle when it comes to the biomass and fish stocks, we quite simply do not make it possible for fisheries to continue.
It quite simply has to be realised that neither in this House nor in the Council is there any political will to adopt measures that genuinely take account of the precautionary principle and guarantee that we have fisheries in the future too.
Rather than a recovery plan, it would be more appropriate to implement a management plan in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002, in a manner which is compatible and also consistent with the biological and environmental component, on the one hand, and socio-economic factors on the other, within the context of the new common fisheries policy.
That is the will expressed by the Committee on Fisheries in its opinion: to replace the recovery plan proposed by the Commission, which imposes severe restrictions on the fishing effort and extremely serious social consequences, with a management plan which allows for the establishment of a total allowable catch that is compatible with the maintenance of the reproductive biomass.
The European Commission recently presented another proposal for the recovery of Southern hake stocks and langoustine stocks, and it has not calculated the socio-economic consequences for the sector of the measures proposed in that case either.
A scientific study is therefore needed, as well as the opinion of the new regional advisory councils provided for in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
The involvement and participation of the sector in decision-making should not be forgotten given that these decisions affect the viability of fishing, jobs, living conditions and the very survival of families which live in European regions highly dependent on fisheries policy.
And I believe that we must insist on this involvement and this participation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the first plan to recover cod stocks, the Commission decided to propose a new initiative, this time on Northern hake.
While the sustainable management of fish stocks clearly justifies the conservation of species deemed under threat, measures aimed at limiting fishing must be properly based on accurate and up-to-date scientific opinions, and must take on board the first-hand observations of fishermen.
The deficiencies in scientific research are well known.
Parliament has had the opportunity this week to express its opinion on the matter by means of the Lage report.
In this context, the Souchet report is excellent, drawing attention to the need to keep data up-to-date, based on information provided by international bodies in the fisheries sector.
These limitations have had a devastating socio-economic impact on sea professionals, restricting already limited fishing activity still further.
This, however, did not occur in this case.
Such measures are therefore only acceptable if strictly commensurate with the aims of sustainable exploitation of stocks and if their economic impact is taken into account.
First, I should say that I reject all the proposed amendments which aim to rename this entire project a ‘management plan’ rather than a recovery plan, because it is still a recovery plan.
On Amendment No 2: I must reject this amendment as this recital is already contained in the framework regulation on the common fisheries policy.
I reject Amendment No 6 because the hake stock is below the precautionary level and is therefore not yet within safe biological limits.
I reject Amendments Nos 12 and 27 because the additional control measures are absolutely essential.
We really do need these measures.
The TACs are based on a fishing mortality rate of 0.25, and we incorporated this value into the proposal at the Council meeting in December.
Consequently, I must reject Amendment No 25 as well, as the Council must have the opportunity to reduce the TACs in exceptional cases if this is necessary on biological grounds.
I can accept Amendments Nos 8, 11, 18, 24 and 26 in full. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
We cannot because, for some time, doubt has been taking root in the hearts and minds of Europeans.
Today, Europe wonders if it will be in a position to keep hold of the levers of change in order to continue to control globalisation, or if it will confine itself to accepting the situation and protecting itself against the dangers.
We need only to listen to the questions asked by the citizens, questions that are very simple.
Questions like this give rise to two opposing attitudes: one part of our society withdraws into itself, searching for an illusory security behind antiquated, and sometimes tribal, slogans, which foment xenophobia and intolerance; but the overwhelming majority of Europeans, however, look to us for positive answers and always ask us what Europe is doing.
This is a healthy and mature position because it assumes a simple fact: no European country can act alone in the globalised world and no one can, alone, meet the challenges of the rise of the large countries of Asia, the technological challenge of North America or the migratory flows from the South.
The strength to meet these challenges&#160;–&#160;our strength&#160;–&#160;lies solely in our Union.
Time has proved Monnet, De Gasperi, Adenauer and Schuman right; we must combine what we have in common; we must fight for the common interest because that is the only way in which we can protect the individual’s interests.
Ladies and gentlemen, the launch of the Lisbon Strategy in 2000 was the culmination of our collective recognition of this situation; in Gothenburg, the project was completed, fully incorporating sustainability as a key component, and this strategy generated energy and enthusiasm; it made the Spring European Council the high point in terms of control, drive and determination.
Because, in order to have a real impact, the strategy needs a project that is coherent and verifiable; it needs to organise the necessary instruments, those of the Member States and of the Union, which includes the Union budget.
For example, we have established that the current budgetary structure and certain management rules are too rigid and that this rigidity has often put a brake on the Union’s work to the detriment of the common interest.
We are, therefore, also proposing a budgetary structure that can respond more flexibly to new and unforeseen circumstances.
I would like to make one final, fundamental observation before moving on to the specific aspects of the proposal.
Of the Union’s principles, the one that I would like to stress is that of solidarity between the citizens and the Member States, solidarity that sees resources transferred from the richer countries to the poorer countries and regions.
Our plan is in line with this underlying political decision and develops it in a new way, by placing cohesion policy more clearly at the service of competitiveness and employment than was previously the case.
I say coherence because the key objective of our political policies in future years will be to encourage sustainable development.
Furthermore, it is a question of justice because no one can be asked to participate in a joint project without being given the opportunity of keeping in step with growth.
Finally, it is a question of opportunity, because experience teaches us that balanced and sustainable development, especially in the poorest regions, is itself a source of further prosperity for the richest regions.
So: sustainable development, European citizenship and the role of the Union in the world.
I would like to stress one aspect of the first point.
Since the internal market is for the most part already in place, we need to incorporate related policies in the broader context of a growth strategy.
This is a very important proposal, which changes the hierarchy in the Union budget: we are now in a position to promote the competitiveness of European businesses by exploiting the fact that they are already operating in a market with no internal borders.
It is absolutely essential that we devise a common strategy at European level to link up our research centres and to produce the best scientists and the best academics in the world.
Europe and the world of education needs to be opened up to life-long learning.
Turning now to the second point, I have often said that, even now, our citizens may sometimes feel that they have split loyalties: to their city, to their nation, to Europe.
The Union must work together with the national governments to guarantee the same level of human rights, security, protection and quality of life across its territory.
Finally, as regards the role of the European Union in the world, enlargement and the prospect of the complete unification of our continent, Europe will really be able to become a force for stability and a reference point across the world.
The time has, however, come to shoulder the responsibilities that this entails in a mature way.
Firstly, we must assume a clear responsibility at regional level by implementing the Commission strategy to develop a circle of friendly countries.
Over the next few years, we must develop this neighbourhood policy to share projects and policies with our neighbours and to guarantee peace and stability by spreading greater prosperity and our founding principles.
Our responsibility does, however, go beyond our role at regional level.
Europe must maintain and increase its contribution to growth, because the gap in opportunities and living conditions between the North and South of the world is incompatible with our political, civil and human traditions.
This state of affairs is also not in our interests, and it increases the irregular migratory flows that so alarm our citizens.
All over the world there are people that see in us a hope for peace and a wise and balanced force.
These, ladies and gentlemen, are just some of the many objectives contained in our Communication.
We have worked meticulously for a whole year–&#160;involving six groups of Commissioners and all of the College on several occasions in various seminars, and also all the Directorate Generals and every government&#160;–&#160;and the materials for this huge amount of preparatory work will be published on the Internet, if you want, and are able, to use them to make it possible to have a more detailed debate.
We have decided, not without difficulty, to remain within the current ceiling of the Union’s own resources, in other words 1.24% of European GDP, plus the ACP (EDF) cooperation funds that have to be entered into the budget.
We are convinced that, even if it is certainly not sufficient to achieve the objectives sought by the Member States&#160;–&#160;and put to us unanimously by the Member States&#160;–&#160;it will be possible, with a sum of this size, to achieve specific results.
If, in fact, we maintain, on the one hand, that, in a large number of cases, action at European level is necessary and more effective, the Commission plans, on the other hand, to involve other bodies to rationalise the implementation of our measures on the ground.
To give you just one example, we propose to reduce the measures currently used in the field of external relations from more than 100 to six, each one dedicated to a specific political and operational area.
Over those 15 years, the average budget implementation is, remarkably, 1% of GDP.
The Council could say that is sufficient, but to get an average of 1% over those years means we have to spend above 1% in certain years.
My point is that this type of flexibility is needed if we are to continue to have a decent average.
They should also see that if there is a case for flexibility in the Stability Pact, then we do not need rigidity in the European Union budget by sticking at 1%, as some Member States propose.
That has been shown in Category 4, where, without the flexibility instrument, we could not have financed the actions in Kosovo, Serbia, Afghanistan, Iraq or in other areas.
We need that flexibility in the budget.
Speaking in a personal capacity, we could manage within the 1% if those same Member States had not already agreed that agricultural expenditure should be set in concrete up to 2013.
To get an agreement on the new financial perspectives needs an interinstitutional agreement.
We do not care if we do not get it: we will just go back to Article 272 of the Treaty and will still manage the budget without the Council's say-so.
We wish him well, but express regret that as a result of his taking up this appointment we shall lose him before the end of this legislature. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we welcome the debate this afternoon.
As the Commission President has announced, this is a Commission decision already, and to come first to us in the Parliament is always an agreeable thing so far as budgetary matters are concerned.
We had multiannual agreements which keep discipline, which we did not have before the financial perspectives were introduced.
We do not wish guidelines – which is what financial perspectives are – to become an end in themselves.
We should recall very clearly as we go through this discussion that we have the right under Article 272 of the existing Treaty – not necessarily under the Constitutional Treaty but the existing Treaty – to be able to continue the budget process, and we shall therefore be very careful to see that parliamentary rights are properly safeguarded in the whole process.
Let us be clear that there will not be any decision in this Parliament about the final nature of this financial perspective.
We should stick to the term of office of the next Commission, which is five years.
To suggest a date after 2013 is to suggest that an old parliament will be committing a new parliament after 2014; it does not work.
For many in my political group, and maybe across the Parliament, to start full negotiations with a country when you do not even know what your existing financial capacity is – to run a union for 25 countries in this way – would be extraordinarily inept and irresponsible, because we need to know what the basis will be when we are negotiating with a country of that size.
Therefore, in conclusion, please let us avoid, when we come to decisions on this, a Soviet-style approach to planning which is going to take us too far into the future of our commitments.
Indeed, this probably is my last speech in this House – at least from this seat, as I am in the Chair tomorrow and Thursday.
Mr President, allow me a few moments to thank the Chairman of the Committee for his kind words and to express my thanks for your kind words and the applause and congratulations I have received from many of my colleagues who came here today knowing that this would probably be my last speech to the Assembly from these benches.
In my opinion, we have to have a more positive vision and I think that that must be our approach to addressing the problems and proposals for action in order to ensure economic growth in the Union in the years ahead.
If we have a financial perspective, what form will the flexibility mechanism take exactly?
Moreover, we have a figure of 1.24% but it is vital to clarify the concepts of payment appropriations, commitment appropriations, and the vague reference to gross domestic product, gross national product and to gross national income.
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the progress of European integration in a united and enlarged Europe requires generosity and a broad-minded approach, and it seems that our ambitions far outnumber resources. &#160;&#160; I would ask those who are not leaving this House to become a member of the Court of Auditors in Catalonia to stick to their speaking time! &#160;&#160; Mr President, President of the Commission, it seems that some of our Member States have been seized by a seven-year itch: it is the irresistible urge to scratch around for the best financial deal for themselves.
But in their rush to advance their own interests, the Member States are failing to ask what might constitute the best deal for Europe.
Britain, France, Germany and three other states have formed an unholy alliance, united only by their zeal to keep down their budget contributions.
Even putting aside the wider benefits that the European Union buys, the EU needs a budget consistent with its responsibilities.
This year we will integrate ten new Member States.
None of these Member States can tell us where the axe will fall.
My Group believes that the key to better value lies in a modest budget increase, leaving a safe margin for unforeseen expenditure, linked to reform, less waste and more intelligent investment.
Not promises of smarter spending from Member States with no will to deliver it. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I have on several occasions, on behalf of my group, denounced the propensity of the European Council to set new priorities for the European Union while refusing to grant it the commensurate financial resources.
All too often this short-sighted policy has caused us to abandon an area that is deemed to be crucial one day in favour of another area that is deemed of vital importance the next.
If the six Member States that are net contributors to the European budget actually go ahead with their plan to freeze expenditure at current levels from 2007, many fine promises will go up in smoke!
On the one hand, it legitimately expects a number of Member States to increase their net contribution to the Community budget, but on the other it pushes the cult of limiting public expenditure so far as to take the Council of Ministers to court for not respecting the Stability Pact.
Furthermore, many problems remain outstanding.
I will mention just one: the regions that in the future will essentially be deprived of benefiting from the Structural Funds, despite the fact that there has been no significant change in their situation.
It is understandable that the forthcoming negotiations are giving serious cause for concern more or less everywhere.
After the split on the war in Iraq, the ‘stupid’ affair of the Stability Pact and the breakdown of the Brussels Summit on the Constitution, we now have the debate on the budget to expose in a new and edifying way just how bad things really are.
The coming months will be decisive in determining whether a beautiful utopia is waxing or waning. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to extend my warm thanks to President Prodi for this early presentation of the proposal on the financial perspectives.
It gives us, as Parliament, as well as the national governments, plenty of opportunity for listing our priorities for the next few years.
In that sense, I share in the critical attitude of my fellow MEPs.
One per cent and not one cent more, irrespective of enlargement, irrespective of the need for Europe to play a more prominent role in the world, irrespective of plans for European border control and irrespective of the promise to turn Europe into the world's most dynamic knowledge economy: plans of this kind are always announced with much pomp and circumstance, but at the end of the day, Member States refuse to accept the implications.
It is a policy that is still massively rewarding farmers and is detrimental to animals and the environment.
The European Union is also very ambitious when it comes to foreign policy.
Accordingly, the bill will, for example, eventually have to be paid by our new neighbours, while we are, in fact, trying to strengthen those ties.
I would like, however, to thank the President of the Commission for having reached an agreement, albeit an incomplete one.
This proposal is unrealistic from the outset, given that six net contributors want to restrict the EU budget to 1%.
The past decades have shown that subsidies for regional policy hardly have any impact, except in Ireland.
This would give the necessary breathing space for the much poorer regions in the acceding countries.
It is likely that structural policy in those countries is also more effective.
The fifty-fifty distribution between old and new Member States, as now proposed by Commissioner Barnier, is a stab in the dark.
So, at a time when the Commission has got into the habit of touching on sensitive issues, as it did with the Stability and Growth Pact, there is, for example, this agreement, which seems to be set in stone and which, while we are discussing the CAP, we are committed to not touching until 2013.
In my view, that is the context surrounding this Commission communication, in which the next financial perspective must address the new circumstances.
This Commission communication will have to be supplemented by the own-initiative report to be prepared by Parliament’s Committee on Budgets and adapt to the new circumstances of enlargement; the European elections will produce a new Parliament and there will be a new Commission.
In any event, we must welcome the Commission’s work and the new budget headings: sustainable development, putting the people at the heart of our project and boosting a more visible and effective foreign policy of the European Union.
I would also like to highlight very clearly the alternative put to us by President Prodi of choosing between two models of Europe.
He told us that between the tangible Europe, the definite Europe, and the Europe of the net balance and net beneficiary, he chose a model compatible with the former, which is a higher model, a model of the Europe of values, the Europe of peace, of understanding, of harmony and of solidarity.
Instead, as Members of this Parliament, which is one of the institutions to vote on this financial perspective, we will address these issues over the coming weeks and months, and indeed over the coming years – that is how long such difficult discussions can take.
Let me say this: all of us – including those who have been regaling us with grand words today – will have to be flexible on a number of issues.
At our last session, we agreed that 3% of gross domestic product should be spent on this policy area in Europe.
We therefore need to talk about budget combinations.
All these issues will have to be discussed.
I am very flexible here, and I am approaching this debate with an open mind.
A seven-year period could produce that situation.
We have our own ideas and we will set out our vision of the Europe we want to achieve.
Both of you will have to deal with a self-confident but serious and solid Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Commission’s proposal for a financial framework for the period 2007-2013 is right in its priorities, and I wish to thank President Romano Prodi for that.
Investment in transport and energy networks will immediately create new jobs and strengthen business conditions even in remote regions and those where development has fallen behind.
Similarly, investment in the young is crucial.
The new Member States need support for reconstruction and for strengthening their economic environment.
The reform of the Commission carried out this term is only a basis for reforms.
One of its fundamental pillars is social and territorial cohesion, in other words, making all citizens genuinely equal by combating imbalances and inequalities in existing wealth and opportunities.
In two months’ time the Union is going to be enlarged with the accession of 10 new Member States and some 75&#160;million citizens.
Its wealth will be far below the current average of the Europe of Fifteen and if we hope to continue to maintain our two-fold Community objective, if we hope to overcome the inequalities suffered by these new Europeans, we cannot contemplate allocating fewer public resources to this end; rather, we should step up our efforts to help.
In this respect, I must condemn the fact that in recent years there has been a reduction in actual Community expenditure, payment appropriations in relation to the gross national income, while the latter is decreasing in constant terms due to inflation.
This is not the reason for my intervention.
Besides, in this context, we must not forget that those countries that intend to enjoy Community funds as of 2007 have yet to meet their biggest challenges: they must overcome their structural backwardness and must ensure the economic and social cohesion of their populations.
Parliament has therefore no choice but to offer political support to the Commission’s proposal.
We know, however, that the chief accountant, Marta Andreasen, who insisted on correct accounts, has now been suspended for 17 months and is banned from showing herself in the Commission’s buildings, where those who have manifestly been responsible for the fraud can go about freely.
The poor countries and the new Member States should be exempted from paying quotas so that there is real solidarity and not only a redistribution from poor people in rich countries to rich people in poorer countries.
With such a reform, the net payers will get away with paying less tax, at the same time as the net recipients will be in a significantly better position than at present.
The total net income received by Danish agriculture was only a fraction of the direct EC subsidy.
Given the difficult economic situation and massive austerity measures being applied in numerous EU Member States, the letter from the six governments is quite understandable, in my view.
In the conflict over the EU’s future finances, there are two options: either to carry on muddling through, repeating the sins of the past and trying to fund everything at once, or – the second option – to see the future framework for the EU budget as an opportunity.
Meeting the expectations of the public means quite simply, for example in employment policy, not having any more of these policies of providing secondary assistance or patching up the crutches that are already available.
Let us nevertheless bear in mind that all of this should meet an objective of sustainable development, a factor in creating stability.
The choice that has been made seems to me to be an excellent one, because it will provide the enlargement countries with the necessary support without isolating the regions in the current Member States that need these funds.
We must actually continue to meet the needs of the areas covered by the present fifteen Member States, fostering their competitiveness and growth so as to fight against unemployment.
Were we not to do so then the public would simply not understand. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, clearly the European Commission is endeavouring with its proposal to strike a balance between the increased financing requirements of enlargement and the difficulties of the short-term economy and the options of the strong Member States.
In addition, the new financial perspective must send out a clear political message about equal treatment and solidarity between the Member States and, if you will allow me to dwell on this point, the needs of the regions which suffer the repercussions of so-called 'statistical convergence'.
At the same time, the citizens in these regions wanted and agreed to the extensive enlargement which will be completed in a few weeks' time.
Any thoughts of making reductions, especially large reductions, in appropriations which, it can be presumed, would have devolved upon these regions without enlargement, jeopardise the efficacy of the political cohesion which is under way and, consequently, must be treated as harmful to the credibility of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr Prodi, it is difficult not to agree with the situation as you have described it here today.
Secondly, in any negotiations, sticking to a position knowing that some of the Member States do not agree with the reference to 1%, appears to me to be quite a complex negotiating position from a tactical point of view.
The current financial situation is programmed up to the end of 2006; the Commission must present a proposal before July 2005 and the agreement must be reached before May 2006.
Naturally, the letter from the six governments so soon after the collapse of the Summit was a mistake in terms of its timing, tone and content and was therefore quite unacceptable.
Equally, however, in response to the Commission’s ideas – and you, President Prodi, have presented some interesting keywords, although we will have to discuss them in far more detail – I must say that what is urgently required in the coming months is a critical review of the European Union’s agenda, with a focus on both positive and negative aspects across the board in all policy fields, if we want to identify honest and practical responses for Europe’s citizens.
Naturally, the outcome of our discussions today cannot be binding on the new Commission, which will still have to be approved by the new Parliament; nor can it be binding in any way on the new Parliament in its capacity as part of the budgetary authority.
This also means that if powers are transferred back to the Member States in an enlarged EU, we will need fewer resources for these areas at European level.
However, it also means that if tasks are transferred to the European level – such as foreign, security and development policy – the Member States will have to look again at the possibility of not only increasing the EU budget but also reducing spending at national level.
A financial perspective that is properly negotiated among the three institutions is a vital element for the rational development of the Union’s expenditure and for ensuring growth, competitiveness, employment, and economic and social cohesion within a framework of budgetary stability.
That is the financial perspective on which this Parliament would like to vote.
The 0.45% of gross national income for cohesion measures has been incorporated by this Parliament and forms part of our approach.
What is at issue, therefore, is much more than the financial framework for the Union.
The President of the Commission will brief Coreper tomorrow, and on 23&#160;February there will be a first discussion by ministers at the General Affairs and External Relations Council.
The Council looks forward to working constructively with Parliament and the Commission in advancing this important dossier.
So, I should like to point out that the structure of the budget we are presenting indicates a radical change with the past – not only quantitatively but also qualitatively; it constitutes an ambitious project that will give rise to serious problems and a fierce debate when the time comes for it to be adopted.
We have made choices that are coherent, precise and dramatically different from those of Lisbon: we have placed, within the context of an extremely ambitious draft budget, appropriations for the area of justice, which is one of the major areas of the Union – it was not by chance that I referred to it as one of the Union’s three lines of action – that is to say funds are to increase by almost 200% from EUR&#160;1 billion in 2006 to EUR&#160;3.6 billion in 2013.
Finally, the international situation: funds are to increase by almost 40% from EUR&#160;11 billion in 2006 to EUR&#160;15.7 billion in 2013.
We did not, ladies and gentlemen, begin building from the roof, but from the foundations, studying the new objectives and analysing what had been decided in previous years with the decisions taken at Lisbon and subsequent decisions.
There are three areas on which we have consolidated and focused our attention, and therefore this is a response which I consider ambitious; realistic and ambitious.
I say realistic because it is clear that genuine situations, temperaments and even political trends cannot be ignored.
The objectives set jointly by the Member States are indeed very ambitious.
The Commission has decided to present a proposal which not only respects this own resources ceiling but also allows sufficient scope below this ceiling based on the average over the period.
The Commission is proposing an average level of appropriations for commitments of 1.22% for the period 2007 – 2013.
If we also include expenditure for the European Development Fund and the sound new instrument of the Solidarity Fund, the appropriations for commitments stand at 1.26%.
The measure outlined in our proposal therefore fulfils a demand that this Parliament has quite rightly been voicing for years, for we need an integrated and effective policy for the ACP states, especially for the poorest countries in the world.
However, we are also planning new flexibility instruments between the categories in order to be able to adjust priorities in the short term.
Let me also emphasise yet again that the Commission is proposing the full integration of the new Member States into the structural and cohesion policies.
As you are aware, we have based our calculations on a European Union of 27 Member States.
These comments are directed to the Council Presidency in particular.
In my view, the financial perspective must have the endorsement of the European Parliament.
I am at a loss to know how the deliberations on the financial perspective can take place without your powerful commitment and your powerful voice.
Your region is very fortunate in having secured your services in this key post.
Oscar Wilde once said that we know the cost of everything and the value of nothing.
This alliance between Parliament and the Commission is an implicit reference to the idea of a gradual expansion of the Union’s remit, which is intended to lead one day to a federal budget.
We must avoid any drift in this direction, so as not to sustain a new bureaucracy and not to compromise the competitiveness objectives that were set in Lisbon.
The European Union, which is at the service of the Member States, should not be cornering their tasks, in particular that of redistribution.
What we are seeing is, unfortunately, a repeat of Agenda 2000, when what we really needed was to increase funds, bearing in mind the growing needs in terms of social and economic cohesion resulting from enlargement, and to promote sustainable development, high quality jobs, improved social conditions and cooperation and development policies with the least-developed countries.
What is happening shows the disgraceful nature of the ‘Group of Six’s’ blackmail in placing a ceiling in the Community budget of 1% of GNP, which would lead to what we feel is an unacceptable solution.
This has also been shown with the Commission’s unacceptable proposal, which does not meet the needs of the acceding countries, growing social inequality, appalling unemployment or the poverty and exclusion that can be seen in current EU countries, such as Portugal.
Of equal importance are the priorities and revision of the objectives and of the instruments of cohesion and budget structure to which they correspond.
I thought in good faith that it had been held over because Mr&#160;Verheugen was to have been with us at this session and other Members had also asked questions about Croatia’s accession.
I would like the services to take careful note of this fact and for it to be reflected in the Minutes of this sitting, because I really do not think that this is as it should be.
We urgently need a debate to clarify all of this. &#160;&#160; Mr Dupuis, the Commission decides which Commissioners attend Question Time and determines the distribution of questions; in any event, we note what you are saying and will pass on your concerns to the Commission.
The next item on the agenda is Question Time (B5-0007/2004).
In this context, a new phenomenon has appeared: that of the so-called low-cost airlines.
I believe that the decision taken by the Commission is balanced.
It has given the green light to most of the aid received by Ryanair throughout this time.
I repeat, however, that I believe the decision on Charleroi favours regional airports and budget airlines.
In fact, there have been complaints in relation to other airports in various countries of Europe.
That amounts to around EUR 500 per citizen in subsidies to the railways, which are now competing directly with the privately-owned low-cost airlines.
In each country, therefore, railways operate as the country sees fit and they receive the aid which each country is prepared to give them, in accordance with the criteria of public service and maintenance of companies, amongst others.
At the same time, a printed leaflet will soon be available in all the languages.
As far as the Member States are concerned, we must make it clear that the Treaty makes provision during the first two years after accession for access to job markets to be the subject of bilateral agreements or national decisions by the Member States.
Of course, for reasons of transparency, the Commission has asked the Member States to notify their position and I should like to inform you that, so far, the United Kingdom and Ireland have stated that they intend to open the job markets fully, while Austria, Germany, Belgium, Finland and Denmark have stated that they will apply national measures for the first two years.
Austria and Germany have also stated that they intend to cite the saving clause in order to limit access to certain service sectors listed in the Treaty.
In all events, when we have all the information from all the Member States, we shall notify Parliament.
In addition, the Commission is in regular contact and cooperation with the services of the Member States, so that we can guarantee the uniform application of these transitional arrangements and can also proceed to issue certain interpretative guidelines which have to date been the subject of cooperation and consultation with the Member States. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for that answer.
I am glad of the cooperation between the Commission and Member States.
The noble aim of enlargement has led to confusion among people on the ground – European citizens – who are now anxious about the extreme predictions of the numbers of people who will come.
I do not agree with these extreme predictions, but the Commission has a role to play in giving out sensible information about what we can expect and what it will mean for free movement and, indeed, for benefits regimes – although this is a matter for Member States.
I have said repeatedly that there are many independent studies concerning the flow of immigrants after day one of enlargement, working on the assumption that ten newcomers will join Europe at the same time.
The overall conclusion of these analyses is that mobility from the new Member States to the current 15 Member States is likely to remain rather limited.
As far as pension rights are concerned, during the Italian presidency we agreed on a regulation covering the social rights and pension rights of workers not only from the new countries, but also from third countries.
That regulation provides a concrete answer to the question of pension rights. &#160;&#160; Following on from that question, Commissioner, I should like to raise the issue of derogation and the issue of regulations that are being unilaterally applied by some countries that have not applied for derogation.
The European Union cannot intervene, irrespective of whether this is done with national arrangements and legislation or with bilateral agreements between the new countries and the existing Member States.
Then there can be no question of discrimination, because one country wants to have different arrangements from another. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, Slovakia has set income tax and corporation tax at a flat rate of 19%.
It has also been endorsed by the new Member States and the candidate countries who have, in the meantime, set up national drug strategies and improved their capacities for taking action against drugs with the support of the Phare Programme.
Research shows that a link between a particular drug policy line and the drug situation is difficult to establish.
The work of the European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction and the work of Europol in this area form part of the basis for the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on the mid-term evaluation of the EU Action Plan on Drugs.
The number of heroin addicts seems to be relatively stable in the European Union, although there are marked differences between the Member States.
Cannabis remains the most widely-used illicit drug and its use is still increasing in many Member States.
The use of synthetic drugs such as ecstasy and the use of cocaine seem to be increasing in certain population groups, although the use of these drugs among the general population remains low. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for a helpful and very informative reply.
Indeed you are right, Mr Newton Dunn, the main responsibility in this area lies with the Member States.
When it comes to internal policy, one has to recognise that for years now Europol has been playing a very important coordinating role in detecting the main transit routes.
We have made some progress in the Balkan region thanks to cooperation with the countries in the area.
Thanks to the support of the Cards Programme, we have been developing specific law enforcement capabilities in those countries to fight against drug trafficking.
The figures I have at my disposal demonstrate that the poppies are growing and increasing, and it is quite clear that in Afghanistan the political situation is not stable enough to guarantee close cooperation as far as law enforcement is concerned in order to tackle the issue of drugs trafficking.
The European Monitoring Centre in Lisbon is developing five key indicators that will allow us to have more reliable data, so that we can compare that data among the Member States and establish a clearer link between the policy line of Member States and the impact of that policy line on the pattern of consumption.
These five indicators refer to figures for drugs used among the general population, the problem of drug use connected with infectious diseases, drugs-related deaths and the treatment provided by Member States for those who ask to be treated for drug addiction.
I hope that the work in progress with these five indicators will give us a clearer picture of the situation in Europe.
It is reported that 260 of the 290 biological purification plants built are only partly operational or have been abandoned.
His question concerns the operation of treatment plants in Greece.
According to the legislation in force for the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the Greek authorities have to declare that these plants are operational when they submit each final report marking the end of the subsidy.
This task, which is very important and which almost, in my opinion, goes without saying, is the responsibility of the Member States.
Article&#160;15(4) of the same directive authorises the Commission to request information on the functioning of all treatment plants that have been built with help from the Structural Funds.
If I understood correctly, and I should like you to confirm this, so far the Commission has not carried out any inspection based on this article, which gives it the facility to check if these biological purification plants are operational.
Because I should like to repeat what is said in the question, and I know this from my own experience from travelling round Greece, that most biological plants are either not operational or operate defectively or operate from time to time.
Complaints have also been sent to the Commission and reports have been sent to the European Parliament.
Nevertheless, as I mentioned myself in my first answer, we are able, in accordance with the Council Directive concerning urban waste water treatment – we have the authority, if I may say so – to request information on the operation of all treatment plants.
The Spanish authorities have requested Community financing from the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds for the project to divert water from the River Ebro.
The Spanish authorities do not therefore need to wait for the Commission to give its decision before starting these projects, given that beginning the work will in no way prejudice the Commission’s decision on whether to grant Community financing.
That is my answer to the question. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I am sorry to return to this issue which is constantly being repeated, but there is currently enormous confusion in Spain.
In my own view, even though, administratively, several different funding sources are involved, indeed several different programmes – regional programmes in Andalusia, Valencia and Murcia, as well as the Cohesion Fund, which are varied instruments that may all contribute in one way or another to funding the project to divert water from the River Ebro – this is one single project and its strategic importance is such as to warrant being examined as a whole by the Commission.
We want to produce an overall assessment of all of the information that is available to us, in particular of the effectiveness of the project and its cost to consumers.
The Commission’s assessment will cover all of the technical projects themselves but will also include the economic analysis that will be made of them.
This is, after all, a major ecological project and we are therefore going to proceed responsibly, which should enable us to issue our overall assessment of the Ebro water transfer project during the course of the summer. &#160;&#160; The mistake proposed by this Parliament was made very clear to me at the meeting on the 16th, with Commissioner Wallström and yourself.
I am also completely aware of the difficulties that authorities at Member State, regional and local level have experienced in putting in place Interreg cross-border cooperation projects.
I say this, Mr President, with some degree of experience, as I spent seventeen years as the president of a border region in France, where I was in charge of a large number of projects that encountered the very types of difficulty that I have just mentioned, in my specific case with our counterparts in the Valle d'Aosta in Italy.
The Commission has called for a study to catalogue the problems faced by the authorities in charge of these programmes, with some suggestions as to how these problems may be solved.
The results of this study will be made public in the spring, giving the Commission time to propose appropriate legislative measures in the framework of the future regulation applicable to the coming Structural Funds programming period.
The report will contain proposals for a reformed and strengthened cohesion policy after 2006.
I should like to thank you for your intervention and to say that I hope that we shall have the opportunity to hear you when you present your report on cohesion, which will not only be about social and economic cohesion, but will now, for the first time, also encompass territorial cohesion.
I also believe that territorial cohesion will not be possible without a genuine instrument to strengthen cross-border cooperation.
It is clear that the cities and the regions, or in France’s case the , have had difficulty in setting up cross-border cooperation programmes, given the differences in legislation that exist between the countries concerned.
What I can tell you, Mr&#160;Vallvé, is that in this report we move in the direction that you wish.
These two regions wish to move it ahead and I am trying to ensure that within the European Union this cross-border cooperation can be accepted.
I need a little more time, but I should like to make an announcement in this regard next week, probably in the cohesion report.
I shall moreover spend a little more time on the legislative instrument, although I shall bear your suggestion in mind. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr Barnier.
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Questions Nos 41 to 44 will be replied to in writing(1).
In one of the EU Prepcom-documents (WSIS PrepCom1 document 19/06/2002), the summit itself is seen as a model for the future role of civil society.
It even held formal meetings with civil society representatives in Geneva on various occasions.
Although the Commission has received rather positive feedback, some civil society representatives could estimate that their views have not been fully taken into account in the final documents adopted by the summit.
As was also pointed out by the Conference of Non-governmental Organisations in consultative relations with the United Nations, some common language is emerging between governments and civil society representatives, paving the way for a better understanding and cooperation in the future.
Nevertheless, we must remember that the World Summit on the Information Society remains an intergovernmental process under United Nations rules, benefiting from the United Nations' legitimacy and United Nations principles of representation.
In its upcoming communication to the Council and Parliament, the Commission intends to propose to convey to the summit's executive secretariat a clear message in favour of a stronger role for civil society and to relay that position in its participation in the conference bureau as well as in its contributions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his very detailed response.
The preparations for the 2005 Tunis Summit are fully underway.
As the Commissioner is aware, we in the European Parliament have a meeting planned with a number of organisations as early as the beginning of March.
After the eEurope action plan adopted in 2000 the Commission recommended in its communication that all public websites should follow the web content accessibility guidelines developed in the World Wide Web Consortium’s web accessibility initiative.
Parliament took a positive view of this, as is evident from Bastiaan Belder’s report and the resolution taken on it.
In resolutions by the Council and Parliament the Commission was asked to monitor progress in order to obtain comparable data.
The Commission has followed these recommendations and in the next few weeks will publish a report explaining what has been achieved.
When the time came for me to give our instructions I received 26 emails on the same day saying that Commissioner Liikanen’s website did not meet the agreed conditions.
As a result, this spring the Commission is to begin a public hearing on a Green Paper on future strategy to combat discrimination.
The Member States' requirement of one representative per country is in danger of creating ineffective decision-making forums.
The very recent malicious code attacks have yet again proven the need for increased coordination between Member States to achieve higher levels of security.
This involvement is seen as crucial to solving the information security problems in Europe.
Concerning the honourable Member’s questions on the composition and participation of the management board, the Commission, in line with its communication of December 2002 on the operating framework for the European regulatory agencies, generally favours a small-scale management board.
However, because of the specific tasks assigned to ENISA and the pressing need for its establishment, the Commission has not stood in the way of a first-reading agreement between the legislators.
Parliament will therefore, of course, apply pressure in this area.
That is the first answer.
The second answer is that the Member States usually want to exert influence upon the day-to-day activities of any strong institution they create.
The choice is between adopting a rapid solution during this Parliament’s and this Commission’s terms of office or of waiting for a more uncertain future to arrive.
This figure is unacceptably high and, therefore, we have the ambitious target to halve this number by 2010.
The Commission has recognised the great potential of the new information and communication technologies in saving lives by mitigating the consequences of accidents or even completely avoiding them.
In September last year the Commission adopted a communication entitled 'Information and Communications Technologies for Safe and Intelligent Vehicles'.
It proposes 11 measures that promote the rapid development and deployment of new active safety systems in Europe.
We have established, together with the industry, Member States, stakeholders and Members of Parliament, the 'eSafety Forum'.
The first results are available in the 2003 Summary Report, which is available on our eSafety website.
We would very much welcome the opinion of the European Parliament, as well as a commitment from Member States.
The Commission is also considering mandating the installation in commercial vehicles of electronic systems whose effectiveness has been proven in practice, such as electronic stability systems for buses and heavy goods vehicles.
Furthermore, the Commission is using the Sixth Framework Programme to develop further the technologies for in-vehicle active safety systems.
An integrated project, 'Prevent' – which has over 50 partners and an overall budget of EUR 60 million, with about EUR 30 million of Community funding – is the most important project in this area. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr&#160;Liikanen, for an absolutely excellent and very interesting answer.
In the future EU, that is to say an EU with 25 Member States, upwards of 50&#160;000 people will die each year on our roads.
Applications such as these require installations both in cars and in the environment.
It is quite clear that, in this area, we need more pressure from above to organise the cooperation between industry, infrastructure authorities and insurance companies.
In our first action programme, eEurope 2002, we had a special approach to e-transport, but it was not, unfortunately, able to create sufficient interest among the Member States.
The Hungarian Government issued invitations to an eSafety Conference in Budapest in May 2004 where we hope for participation not only from IT ministers but also from transport ministers and the authorities responsible for transport infrastructure.
If technology and infrastructure are not coordinated, we shall not be able to obtain any practical results. &#160;&#160; I also thank the Commissioner and his services for what is an outstanding programme – the eSafety programme.
The first relates to his views about the likely development of the eCall technology, which will give automatic location of a vehicle after an accident.
Secondly, I want to ask for the Commissioner's assurance that his services will consider sympathetically, in looking at the Phase 2 standards for pedestrian protection, the major contribution that accident avoidance technologies will make in that improvement in reducing pedestrian casualties.
We will look at the issue in detail in the context of the feasibility studies to be carried out.
In any case, pedestrian safety is a priority for all of us and we will stick to the commitments we have made. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your replies, Mr Liikanen.
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Questions Nos 49 and 50 will be replied to in writing(2).
I would remind you, first of all, that the bill adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on 15 December 2003 regulates the relations between the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority (PSZÁF), the Hungarian Parliament and the Ministry of Finance.
In terms of evaluating these two aspects of the bill, I should point out that the explicit provision stating that the Authority may not accept any instructions in the performance of its legally defined tasks, but that the Finance Minister has the right to be informed about its activities, is in line with normal standards, including those in place in the Member States of the European Union.
Since the bill has not yet come into force, the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority is still operating under the existing regulations and the same administrative council.
It is in constant contact with the Hungarian Government on this issue, and given the importance of efficient and proper financial supervision, has requested the Hungarian Government to inform it promptly of all developments in this field. &#160;&#160; One further question: do you not think it is rather unusual that through this amendment to a bill, there has been intervention in a current procedure?
In the general conclusions it is stated that the legal framework for restitution is now fully functional.
Your question, Mr Posselt, indicates that you may be better informed than the Commission.
The selection of the general model for asset restitutions in Romania is a sovereign matter for Romania, and the sole responsibility of that state.
Nevertheless, the regular Commission report does highlight the fact that the progress made in actual restitutions varies greatly depending on the value of the assets to be returned.
I would classify that as fairly slow implementation of the relevant legislation. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, firstly I do believe that it is the Commission’s role – and one you fully appreciate – to ensure that the relevant legislation is actually enforced.
Secondly, I believe – during the previous question time, you did state that you are still responsible for minority issues, including in candidate countries – that the Romanian and Hungarian legislation seeks to treat all citizens equally.
The right of Maltese citizens to vote in general elections depends on their nationality, age, and place of residence.
A short while ago, a Maltese citizen lodged a complaint because one party was disputing his right to vote, and the Constitutional Court found that these requirements do not violate the fundamental rights of Maltese citizens.
If a political party in Malta disputes a citizen’s right to vote, the relevant Maltese court has to consider the case and the ruling of the Maltese Constitutional Court has to be taken into account.
The right to question the electoral roll and election results is an integral part of all transparent democratic systems.
The Commission would also remind you that the recently adopted law on the European elections in Malta states that all Maltese citizens living in any of the 25 Member States have an active and passive right to vote in the elections for the European Parliament in Malta.
It shows that Malta’s increased participation in international organisations is having a very constructive influence on domestic developments. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, you have not addressed the real question, namely the request from the Maltese Labour Party to strike 1&#160;684 citizens off the electoral register for the European elections because they currently live in the European Union, and do not work in Malta.
Once again, in this case, 1&#160;684 citizens will be struck off the electoral register.
What is important is establishing whether or not the general free and equal voting rights are guaranteed in Malta.
That is all the Commission can do in this case.
I was one of a number of Members who petitioned the Commissioner to include an assessment in his last report, last November, on this specific issue.
The Commission will draw together all information available from its own sources, from Member States, from human rights organisations and international monitoring bodies and also from all public information sources.
If necessary, missions will be sent out to get a first-hand impression of the situation on the ground.
I am very happy, therefore, to give you my personal opinion, which is that this is a project of considerable strategic significance, with a huge influence on eastern Mediterranean politics, and implications for many other countries, and is therefore a project which merits a great deal of international attention. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Verheugen, for your cooperation with Parliament this evening.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 55 to 85 will be replied to in writing(3).
This study does not raise new food safety issues as the levels found are consistent with the results from other surveys and from official controls.
This does not, however, mean that the presence of these contaminants is not a cause for concern.
However, in setting these levels, the Commission had to take into account the reality of the current background contamination of the environment in order not to endanger the food supply.
These maximum levels are part of a comprehensive strategy adopted by the European Commission in 2001 to reduce the presence of dioxins and PCBs in the environment, in feed and in food.
The implementation of this strategy would give new impetus to the reduction of the background contamination.
The legislation foresees that, as early as this year, the maximum levels have to be revised to integrate some PCBs with toxicological effects similar to dioxins.
For the other PCBs, the European Food Safety Authority is currently undertaking a risk assessment.
The result of this risk assessment is expected to become available by the end of 2004.
However, their continued presence in fish is due to the fact that they are very persistent compounds, which can still be found in the environment.
The European Union has established maximum levels for these pesticides in animal feed, including fish feed.
On the basis of updated risk assessments undertaken by the Authority, the Commission will consider whether a revision of the current levels is necessary for the protection of animal and human health.
We have, accordingly, drawn the attention of the Member States to these findings and requested that they submit data from official controls and, if necessary, reinforce those controls.
Fish – be it farmed or wild – has its place in a well-balanced diet to ensure that consumers continue to benefit from its positive health effects. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I was among those Members who wanted a debate to be held on this issue, given the alarm that had spread among the public.
Scottish salmon accounts for nearly 40% of all Scottish food exports.
The bias of the press coverage and the lack of quality information led to a food scare based on insubstantial evidence and falsehood.
The conclusions are based on a controversial risk assessment model that was introduced by the US Environmental Protection Agency.
The risk assessment model is not recognised by international organisations responsible for food safety and public health such as the WHO, which considers it scientifically flawed.
Even the figures used in the research are questionable, as they differ from UK Government official figures.
I understand that there were ongoing negotiations this weekend between the Irish presidency and the British Government.
If you have an opportunity to comment, Commissioner, that may be useful.
The European Commission's immediate response reassured consumers that eating salmon is safe.
This decline has been partially offset by introducing stocks of salmon into rivers, something which companies that produce hydroelectric power in particular have been obliged to do.
Now that, with enlargement, the Baltic Sea is to become even more obviously an inland sea of the Union, a comprehensive plan should be drawn up to protect salmon stocks and organise fishing activity.
By promoting the natural regeneration of salmon stocks we can open up new opportunities for sport fishing and tourism based on it in all the countries with a Baltic coastline.
Once the natural reproduction process for salmon is improved, the level of introduced fish stocks can be reduced and in the course of time perhaps abandoned altogether.
The fishing of Baltic salmon should start to see the implementation of the ‘spawn state principle’, which has been successfully applied in the North Atlantic within the framework of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organisation.
After the enlargement of the Union, the protection of the Baltic Sea, maintenance of its fish stocks and organisation of fishing activity in the region will no longer be matters of multilateral cooperation but a bilateral issue between the EU and Russia.
I believe that Russia for its own part is prepared to take up the challenge of cooperation; the main responsibility, however, lies with us, the EU and the Member States of the Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was interested to hear Commissioner Byrne say that some of the findings exceed the limits.
This is because, according to press reports when this scientific study was first published, a statement was issued claiming that a spokesperson from Commissioner Byrne's office had agreed with the assessment made by the United Kingdom Food Standards Agency that the levels of chemicals in our European salmon did not exceed EU limits.
I welcome the fact that this position has now been revised, because what we are talking about here is about consumers.
The issue needs to be addressed as to why those background levels are there in the first place.
From these studies it has been quite clear that farmed salmon have a significantly higher contaminant burden than wild salmon – that is what the report says – and that farmed salmon from Europe are significantly more contaminated than farmed salmon from South and North America.
We are now saying that consumption of farmed salmon should be limited to a certain amount per week, or per month, which raises a question about the threat to consumers.
I raised the issue with the President of Parliament, Pat Cox, and asked him to request the European Food Safety Authority to issue a scientific opinion on the problem.
An issue which has not been raised at all is that other carnivorous fish species, for example tuna, cod, sea bass, sea bream and trout, are farmed in similar conditions and probably exposed to similar contamination.
They should adopt protection methods to safeguard the consumer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me say unequivocally that if there are proven problems of a serious health or environmental nature linked to EU-produced salmon, then the matter must be dealt with seriously and swiftly.
However, there must be accurate, reliable and totally independent scientific advice before any such action can be undertaken.
I am also interested to know if there are vested interests involved in this work, if there is anyone who stands to gain from this type of so-called scientific research.
In recent days, both the Irish and UK Governments made a joint application to the European Commission for new measures to safeguard our salmon-farming industry.
The application does not concern the Canadian or the American producers; it concerns the EU producers, starting with Irish producers who are fighting for survival.
In conclusion, I ask the Commission to tell me and the Irish salmon producers, whom I represent, what follow-up or initiative it has taken to date, or intends to take, on the joint Irish-United Kingdom application? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the question of farmed salmon before us today is a genuine case study that is surely destined to be repeated many times over in years to come.
The food safety authorities are there to help us in this aim, but Parliament must also give a ruling.
I should also like to remind you at this juncture, as a member of the Scientific and Technological Options Assessment (STOA), that we have a novel type of body available to us in the European Parliament, the STOA panel, whose function is to provide Members of this House with aspects of scientific assessment that they may need in order to clarify the positions that our various committees are required to take.
It is by no means a perfect institution, but I feel that the STOA is capable of offering us invaluable help, such as providing us, in regard to a question such as the one before us this evening, with an overall perspective and a critical analysis of all scientific studies in existence or ongoing.
The magazine article – based on a USD 2.9 million research project carried out by the Institute for Health and the Environment at the State University of New York at Albany – has, as previous speakers have said, proved to be deliberately misleading in the advice it provides on salmon consumption.
Moreover, the PCB levels in all EU farmed salmon are significantly below the level determined to be safe for sale in supermarkets, even by the US Food and Drug Administration, as well as by all other international watchdogs, including our own EU Food Standards Agency and the UK Food Standards Agency.
The research totally failed to mention the positive health benefits that can be gained from eating fatty fish such as salmon.
Organisations such as Scottish Quality Salmon, which has very high standards, should be encouraged.
The measured approach adopted by the Commissioner is right, and I hope that, as others have said, there will be support for measures to protect this industry, which in Scotland is essential for employment and social cohesion in very fragile areas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is clearly a very important subject.
Salmon farming has often been criticised in the past for its environmental impact, but only recently have potential health impacts been raised.
Health advice given by governments across the EU traditionally highlights the importance of eating more fish.
Yet, if risk analysis suggests that consumption of farmed Atlantic salmon poses health risks that detract from the beneficial effect of fish consumption, then we need to know more about that.
Also associated with aquaculture is a whole range of other problems, including the spread of disease and parasites to wild fish, the use of fish, fishmeal and fish oil as food with impacts on wild fish stocks, pollution of the sea floor from unconsumed food, the impact on predators when they are killed and the antibiotics used to control the disease.
I am happy that it has been acknowledged by Parliament that the Commission responded quickly to this issue and that a clear explanation was given when it first came into the public domain.
It would be a mistake to confuse the presence of dioxin and PCBs in the fish, and the presence of pesticides in feed.
That interpretation arises from a confusion of what has been said, which is that the dioxin levels are within EU maximum levels, but the pesticides in food are not, and I gave two instances that were above that.
In answer to the question I was asked by Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain in relation to the joint report that has been furnished by the Irish and United Kingdom authorities, I have to say that report has not reached my desk, nor has it reached my DG.
I am, of course, making inquiries about it, but that report may have been on a related issue and sent to a different DG.
Finally, on the question of further risk assessments, the European Food Safety Authority is carrying out a risk assessment on the presence of non-dioxin-like PCBs.
It is precisely because of concerns such as these, regarding the social consequences of corporate restructuring, that the Commission has sought to promote a response at Community level to the issue of how corporate restructuring is managed.
I should like to remind you that two years ago the Commission launched a consultation with the social partners, particularly on this issue of restructuring, because unfortunately, there were many problems in many different Member States.
We have the response of the social partners in October and we believe that through dialogue and agreed measures, particularly on issues to which I have already referred, everything that supports employability, the social partners can play an important role.
It is my sincere hope that in the window of opportunity that now appears to have opened all such possibilities will be given full consideration to see what contribution they can make to alleviating the crisis faced by the Terni plant. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Europe cannot remain silent in the face of what is happening in one of the Union’s most important steel-making sites: without any prior notification the Thyssen Krupp Group has decided to halt the production of magnetic steel in the steel plants of Terni.
That is why we are asking that the Commission, when presenting the third report on economic and social cohesion on 18 February, clearly sets out its own proposals for protecting the industrial sector and, in particular, the iron and steel industry in the context of its new cohesion policy due to commence from 1 January 2007.
I repeat that the problem does not concern only Italy, nor is it a purely incidental matter, but rather a general problem facing the steel industry in Europe.
Indeed, we cannot adopt a carefree and superficial approach to such a sensitive issue on which the future of thousands and thousands of jobs, and therefore of thousands and thousands of families, hangs.
As regards the Italian case of Terni, I am convinced that the Commission must intervene to deal with certain anomalies.
Next, does not the Commission consider that it should check whether Thyssen Krupp has received further State aid in breach of the competition rules?
I am convinced that the President of the Commission, after listening to the Thyssen Krupp management, will take decisive measures to intervene in the way that I hope so that the Commission may act collectively.
The announcement to close the magnetic section of ST by Thyssen Krupp means the loss of 900 highly qualified jobs and internal disruption as a result in the Terni iron and steel plant thereby posing an immediate threat to its plans, its productive capacity and its overall job prospects: we are talking of 4&#160;500 jobs, including those companies affected by the knock-on effects.
At the end of January, however, after only two months, there was an about turn: even the production of grain-oriented steel used for transformers was closed down and the closure of the plant was announced with dramatic internal consequences: there was a threat that the plant would be broken up destroying its integrated structure which, given the varied nature of its production, enabled it to balance out market fluctuations and disperse strategic functions such as marketing.
It also had major external consequences affecting Italy and Europe in general.
The news that arrived at the end of the meeting held today in Palazzo Chigi therefore explains why the workers and the inhabitants of the city took to the streets and why they have been able to broaden their network of alliances and support.
On 18 February genuine negotiations will finally get under way without a gun being held to the trade union’s head.
In response to this preliminary result the pressure must be maintained and the attention of all the institutions must be kept engaged.
On Thursday this Parliament will make its voice heard with a resolution on this issue which genuinely symbolises the need for new systems of industrial relations and more advanced methods for linking public investment and industrial strategy.
We are fighting to ensure that there is a clear message that the dispute should end in a positive manner: a decisive dispute to put a stop to the downgrading of production in Italy and the weakening of industrial plant throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in 1950 Robert Schuman launched the idea of a European Coal and Steel Community open to all States, thereby creating the basis for the complex and difficult journey of European unification, the most recent developments of which we are now experiencing.
Even then the importance of steel in the European context was clear.
I am not surprised therefore that the debate in this Parliament concerning the ‘Terni case’ has aroused so much interest and the opinions expressed have to a large extent not been dependent on political affiliations.
The European iron and steel sector is currently suffering as a result of the decision taken by the US to impose import duties on steel, principally from the European Union.
The crisis in Italy is important because it involves other iron and steel centres, like the steel plant in Genoa-Cornigliano.
In that context, the announcement by Thyssen Krupp, the owner of the Terni iron and steel plant, that it is going to invest in South Korea to produce steel in Asia is of major importance and is causing a good deal of concern.
As you know, the Terni plant was sold in 1994 as part of the process of privatisation promoted by the Institute for Reconstruction of Industry (IRI), subject to a guarantee that its activities would continue in Italy and that jobs would be protected.
The technology used at Terni and the studies and research carried out in recent years are of an extremely high standard.
Losing skills and know-how is exactly the opposite of the knowledge economy to which President Prodi recently referred in this Parliament.
About 900 workers are likely to lose their jobs, not counting the knock-on effects.
At a meeting last December, some European Union industrial manufacturers in the footwear and textiles sector posed a number of questions concerning those matters to the delegation from China, which is preparing itself to become the factory of the world.
Above all, in a market economy based on competition the rules must … &#160;&#160; – Mr President, nine hundred jobs lost may be no more than a statistic, but it amounts to more for the lives of the human beings affected.
The plant in Terni is at the very heart of the city’s fabric; 900 jobs: the lives of young and old workers.
Terni is not an isolated operation: in Europe, Arcelor, Lucchini and Thyssen itself are currently preparing to reorganise production; plants in Belgium, the blast furnaces of Servola in Trieste have already received threats of closure, despite trade union action.
The subsidies paid to private entrepreneurs such as Riva, Lucchini, Falk and other foreign groups have been used for the remodernisation of production capacity and the specialisation of the Italian iron and steel industry along profit-making lines.
In my view, the absence of a coordinated plan in the European Union to relaunch the iron and steel industry has contributed to individual plants in various countries – albeit at the cutting edge – being transferred elsewhere in order to fit in with the industrial plans of individual entrepreneurs.
The Thyssen plant in Terni, which is currently suffering heavy losses in the magnetic steel sector to the benefit of the Russian company Duferco, is cutting back production and preparing to transfer operations to Mexico, Korea, China and India.
Despite the drastic reduction of employment in the sector in Italy, which has fallen from 100 000 jobs in the 1980s to 40 000 today, the steel sector still has an excellent position in the market because it is the second European producer.
In order to maintain that position, however, requires industrial choices to be made by the Italian Government – which do not appear to be forthcoming – and a clear commitment of intent at European level.
We must find solutions in the form of industrial policies geared to protecting quality products, environmental conditions and employment in the iron and steel sector.
In my view, Directive 98/59 on protection in respect of collective dismissals should also be reviewed so as to consolidate the measures designed to protect employment by making provision not only for information procedures for workers’ representatives, but also requiring a commitment on the part of the social partners to open appropriate and binding negotiations with a view to preventing dismissals or the reorganisation of production to the detriment of employment.
The jobs in the steelworks at Terni must be saved, as must the jobs in other Italian and European plants and for this reason I believe that a meeting is required between the governments of the Member States concerned, the social partners and, in this specific case, Thyssen Krupp, to draw up a new industrial plan to relaunch the magnetic and inox sectors at European level. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, once again Italy risks being used as a dumping ground.
Thyssen Krupp is the only case of a multinational that has grown thanks to the work of hundreds of Italian workers and huge funds placed at its disposal, either by the Italian State or the European Union, and then has decided to close, in this case in Terni, in Umbria, with the risk of leaving 900 workers and their families destitute and also wasting a huge resource of professional skills.
As other Members have mentioned, the announcement of closure took everybody by surprise: no prior notice was given to the workers or the national and local authorities and, above all, no justification was given because today the closure appears to be dictated more by questionable strategic company choices than by specific technical reasons, given that in Italy production costs are lower, the quality is higher and the professionalism of the workforce beyond question: there have been steelworks at Terni for 120 years.
Would it, I ask myself, be acceptable for Thyssen Krupp to go ahead with the decision to close after taking everything possible from that territory and those people: professionalism, resources and even their hopes for the future?
Although I am convinced that large companies – the multinationals – are certainly a source of employment and development for the whole of Europe, a few remarks must be made: to say that we do not agree with some of the behaviour indulged in by European capitalism is neither a secret nor a shock: a capitalism which, in theory, is completely committed to the free market, to pure competition and to the flexibility of the global market but which, in reality, expects to be generously assisted time and again, requiring tax incentives from national governments and all kinds of structures, infrastructures and facilities from local administrations, not to mention the granting of Community funds.
Meanwhile production has already been moved to India, with an eye on China, where the cost of labour is ridiculous and laws for the protection of workers and the environment non-existent.
Further, as other Members have already stated, these multinationals often take advantage of the opportunity offered by privatisation – which unfortunately, most of the time, are no more than asset sales – to acquire our family jewels at knock down prices, as was exactly the case with Thyssen Krupp at Terni.
Firstly, we are asking for immediate measures, within its powers, to safeguard the iron and steel centre in Terni and to avert the danger of Thyssen Krupp’s plant being closed; secondly: a commitment to check that European regulations are effectively applied in order to protect workers’ rights; thirdly: a further commitment to make the granting of Community funds conditional on agreements guaranteeing employment and subject to precise conditions and limits on the relocation of plant.
There is outcry at the scandalous possibility that certain products are to be transferred to India, China or South America.
I therefore feel the current crises particularly keenly, especially that of Terni, where 900 jobs are under threat.
It also recalled, however, measures that were needed to prevent further crises – measures in terms of social acquis and social rights, conditions of State aid, training for employees, respect for the environment, diversification, research, new products and the penetration of new markets.
The Terni situation is symptomatic.
First, as far as the international dimension is concerned, it is clear that global negotiations are under way on the question of steel and the European Union wants to achieve an agreement on subsidies because, as we know, there are countries which grant subsidies, especially outside the frameworks of the World Trade Organisation.
And I think that here it is very important to know that, of course, the final decision on a company is taken by the company's management, but it is obliged to follow the specific directives on consultation with workers and on information, and prompt information, for them, and Community law on mass redundancies.
The implementation of these directives in the first stage, because they are national law, concerns every country and, of course, it also concerns the European Union, because they are European law.
The third point is the Structural Funds, in other words European money for companies.
Here we can see two categories of intervention by the European Union.
A company cannot take European money and not keep to the terms on which it was granted and, of course, in such cases, the agreements are signed at national level and the national courts have jurisdiction to impose any sanctions.
The question of subsidies is one aspect of the Structural Funds.
And here it is important for us to see that there is experience in many countries of restructuring of the Structural Funds, especially the Social Fund, in order to support workers and, even more importantly, to retrain them.
The most important weapon in restructuring of companies is continuing training of workers so that they can deal with the problems of their sector and can re-enter the job market at any time.
So I think that it is important in the negotiations taking place at the moment at trilateral level, between companies, workers and the Italian Government, for account to be taken of this possibility of supporting and assisting the workers via the Social Fund. &#160;&#160; I have received six motions for resolutions to wind up the debate(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0003/2004), by Philip Bushill-Matthews and Bartho Pronk on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on demographic trends in the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted that the House has agreed to debate this important topic.
I therefore welcome the approach taken by the Employment Task Force chaired by Wim Kok.
This report refers to one of the Lisbon Council conclusions that is often overlooked, that by 2010 the target is for 50% of 55-64 year-olds to be in employment.
Currently, only Sweden, Denmark, Portugal and the United Kingdom have reached this target.
Belgium, Italy, France, Luxembourg and Austria have employment rates for older workers of less than 33%.
But even the EU as it exists today will miss the 50% target unless it can increase the number of older workers in work by seven million over the next seven years.
Finally, will Member States implement all the provisions on age discrimination in the employment directive without further delay?
I hope the answer to all of these can be 'yes'. &#160;&#160; .
Of course, I too hope that the answer to the last three questions will be yes, which means very close cooperation and decisiveness by the Commission and, more importantly, the Member States.
The question of ageing is now, as you will see, the basic element in the general orientations of economic policy and the guidelines of the strategy for employment, with specific targets.
The second is the promotion of access to training for all workers, but especially elderly workers, and here we have set specific quantitative targets.
The Commission, within these frameworks of efforts to put demographic ageing at the centre of its policies, is proposing to extend the open method of coordination to modernising the care system and the social protection system.
Here we have a particular problem, which concerns the increased burden both from the economic point of view and from the workload point of view and, hence, from the point of view of serving very old people since, due to the changes in our society, it would appear that the health systems cannot play the role which they played in the past.
Your second question concerns flexibility in retirement rules and is particularly topical.
We have set the Lisbon targets, to increase the employment rate of the elderly to 50%, and the Barcelona targets, to increase the average age at which workers leave the job market by five years by 2010.
These targets are being monitored by the Commission.
At the moment, we are examining, together with the social protection and employment committees, how social systems obstruct or favour easy retirement.
The final report is at your disposal, it will be submitted again in 2004, and we can see what the problems are in each system as regards incentives to retire, disability benefits, unemployment benefits, older workers and dependents' pensions, and how the logic of incentives rather than the logic of integrating these people into the job market has also distorted the job market, as well as efforts by people themselves to enter the job market.
I must of course tell you that the European Commission has constantly recommended the introduction of flexible retirement systems since 1980 and the response has not been as we expected.
As far as your third question on the results of the Wim Kok committee is concerned, we consider that they are extremely important, mainly because they go into detailed recommendations for each Member State.
We have already included the Kok report in the strategy on employment and our recommendations for all the countries will take account of this report.
There has been a substantial rise in awareness of demographic ageing and its impact on the jobs market and social policy in the EU.
Europe faces an enormous challenge in this area.
On the one hand, it is confronted with the possibility of failing to meet targets set at the Lisbon Council in the areas of employment, competitiveness and economic growth by 2010.
At the same time, health care systems must achieve the three-pronged aim of health care access for all, higher levels of quality provided by these services and the financial viability of systems.
The first issue that therefore arises is to know in what way the Commission will be able to support Member States to provide adequate responses to the ageing of the population, either at health systems level or at employment policy level.
The increase in the contribution of women to the labour market is a further response, but one which requires measures to be adopted that make it easier to reconcile working life and family life.
Both the Member States and the candidate countries are aware of the challenges.
This is more important than simply talking about raising the retirement age. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am grateful for this question because our group is permanently very concerned not just about the problem of ageing, but also the combination of ageing and depopulation.
Europe has an increasingly smaller and older population.
I have been looking at the map of population density in Europe, I have it here in front of me, and it indicates that more than half of your country, more than half of Greece, has a population of less than 50 inhabitants per square kilometre.
However, what would you think if I told you that, as well as that, half of your population is over 50 years old?
We must start looking into this problem, which is arising in many regions of Europe, in Spain, in Scotland, in France, in certain regions of Italy and also in Greece.
They stay for three, five, six months or a year and then leave, to a city or to the coast.
President Pastrana spoke here in October 1999, and today he is part of your official delegation, Mr President.Mr President, even as the European Union enlarges to the east and to include two new Mediterranean island Member States, we in this Parliament fully believe that EU relations with Latin America must continue to be strengthened.
We believe that an important step in this regard is the recent conclusion of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement last December with the Andean Community and therefore also with Colombia.Mr President, we know that yours is a state that suffers extremely high emigration, poverty, extraordinary security challenges including assassinations and kidnappings, and the extraordinary challenges of organised crime and narco-terrorism.
In Colombia you have paid a high price in violence and political instability.This Parliament supports all efforts aimed at reforming and bringing peace to Colombia, however there are fields which still need further action.
This Parliament believes that in addition to military and security dimensions the prevailing conflict also demands political, social and economic responses.
My government takes a democratic view of security, in order to protect all the citizens regardless of their ideas, of their economic situation, of whether they are employers or workers or whether or not they are supporters of the government.
The number was reduced to 160 in 2003.
The monitoring bodies, the justice system and the government share the determination to severely punish any proven violation of human rights.
The sacrifice they have made in order to bring us peace has been immense: since August 2003, 277 soldiers and policemen have been killed by antipersonnel mines alone, and 854 have been injured, many of them permanently mutilated.
The results are encouraging, and there is great hope that, following their active period within the security forces, we can count on them as leaders in compliance with the law, forever.
Between 2002 and 2003, murders were reduced by 20%, kidnappings by 26%, massacres by 33%, attacks on the population by 84%.
The murder of teachers, trade unionists and journalists has reduced and, fortunately, the murderers in several cases are already in jail, as a result of our determination to eliminate impunity.
We will only claim victory when the massacres and acts of terror are completely eradicated, because every one of them brings pain to the entire nation, such as the car bomb set off by the FARC in the Club El Nogal, exactly a year ago, killing 33 and injuring 173; or the rural worker from La Unión Peneya, who was burnt alive by terrorist guerrillas because he refused to abandon his home and swell the numbers of displaced people; or the peasant woman from Tibú, who lost her leg as a result of a mine while she was out walking with her five-year-old daughter.
The constitutional reform which introduces anti-terrorist laws was approved by Congress amidst national and international debate.
The powers given to security forces to capture, intercept and carry out raids in cases of terrorism were subject to the subsequent approval of a statutory law, and also to other guarantees such as the obligation to bring the case before the courts within 36 hours, the immediate dispatch of a report to the Public Prosecutor and periodic scrutiny by Congress.
I believe that the world must reconsider the idea that this type of power placed in the hands of governments jeopardises human rights, since these must be respected fully and in the same way by both the judiciary and the executive.
People who plant antipersonnel mines, kill children, take pleasure in their own cruelty and act treacherously can only be described as terrorists.
People who for ideological or other reasons use or threaten violence are defined as terrorists under the legislation of many countries.
Likewise, anybody who behaves like that in Colombia can only be described as a terrorist.
His good faith and patriotism were deceived in a cowardly manner by the FARC, which expanded their criminal empire while the nation waited and hoped for a peace agreement.
They are afraid of taking steps towards peace without the permission of the FARC.
It is time to update and monitor this ceasefire, with regard to which the support of the Organisation of American States is extremely useful, and this must quickly lead greater numbers of members of these groups to show a genuine desire for peace.
We must recover the principle of exclusive institutional protection of citizens.
The government’s military action has been implacable against the vigilante sectors which have not respected the ceasefire.
This is demonstrated by the number of demobilisations, which increased by 85% in 2003 compared to 2002, and the number of those captured, which increased by 135% over the same period.
During this period of government almost 4 500 members of armed groups have been demobilised, 68% of them members of the FARC guerrilla organisation.
The FARC are holding more that 1 000 hostages, including congressmen, members of the security forces and the ex-presidential candidate Ingrid Betancur, who has both Colombian and French citizenship.
My talks with the Church, the French Government, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, and the families of the victims, led me to accept the quest for an agreement on the basis of negotiations held under the auspices of the United Nations, the release of all hostages, and the commitment on the part of terrorists leaving prison not to return to offending, with effective guarantees, such as their residing in a country which respects the agreement.
We must bear in mind that on the one hand there are respectable citizens kidnapped by terrorists while on the other there are terrorists who are in jail.
In order to combat the concentration points of rural property in the hands of drug traffickers and terrorists combined, we approved a law to speed up the procedures for seizing assets.
The London Declaration commits us deeply.
