&#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise to ask a question under Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure.
Secondly, if there is, is there any basis in law for this being done? &#160;&#160; I am not sure whether this is exactly a point of order, but, in any event, I can reply by saying that the Bureau has already looked into this issue, which has been communicated to the legal services, and we are awaiting a report from those services so that we can act accordingly. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council Statement on the programme of the Luxembourg Presidency.
In addition to my pleasure at being here, I have the honour today to present to Parliament – the elected representatives of the peoples of Europe – the priorities for the Luxembourg Presidency of the European Union.
The Luxembourg Presidency follows that of our Dutch friends.
The EU made significant progress under the Dutch Presidency.
When it comes to an end, I hope to be able to say the same of the eleventh Luxembourg Presidency, which began a few days ago.
The experience of our previous presidencies might indeed prove to be valuable, but presidencies come and go and have different characteristics.
When I was President of the Council of Ministers for the first time, in 1985, there were ten Members of the European Communities; when I was President in 1991, there were 12 ministers around the table; when I took over the Presidency in 1997, there were fifteen of us, and now there are 25 Member States.
In 20 years the number of Member States has more than doubled.
What a joy and a pleasure, however, to see the countries of Eastern and Central Europe take their place in the EU, in view of the fateful decree that sought to drive a wedge between us for ever.
The experience of our various presidencies and of observing the successive presidencies of other countries has taught me two things.
I say this for myself, for my ministers and for all those who work in the service of Parliament, and thus in your service.
Together we must oversee the ratification of the new Constitutional Treaty in the right conditions.
Let us do now what must be done in order for this to be the case in the future and let us ratify the Treaty.
Its content will be the fruit of our convictions, of our will and of our ambition.
If our will and our ambition are perfect, the implementation of the new Treaty, which may be imperfect in theory, will probably be perfectly successful in practice.
Let us not put off the most difficult decisions until the day after the first referendum, then until the day after the second referendum, then until the day after the third referendum, and so on.
When we ask for the approval of the peoples and the parliaments of Europe, let us show them that Europe works, that Europe is on the move, that Europe is decisive and that Europe is capable of fulfilling its responsibilities.
The deeply distressing pictures of the dead, the injured and the devastation cast a giant shadow over the end of 2004 and the beginning of 2005.
This tragedy will linger long in the memory and I hope that, in addition to the immediate emergency aid, we shall show lasting solidarity with the devastated peoples and regions of Asia.
Our hearts should be in places where the television cameras are no longer or have never been.
Mr President, the European security strategy encourages us to promote peace, democracy and stability in the fight against the root causes of insecurity in the world.
It is absolutely crucial that, in a coherent and coordinated fashion, we use the entire range of EU instruments in the Western Balkans, in the Middle East, in our relations with Russia and Ukraine and in our transatlantic relations.
The future of the Balkans, a region still traumatised by its recent past, must form part of Europe’s outlook.
The opening of accession negotiations with Croatia in March 2005, provided that there has been confirmation of complete cooperation with the Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, will demonstrate to all Balkan countries that their efforts towards democracy will be rewarded and might bear more fruit.
The Presidency will hold talks with Albania on a stabilisation and association agreement.
A further crucial milestone in the region will be a review in mid-2005 of the implementation of the standards policy in Kosovo.
The Russian Federation is a strategic partner of the EU and remains a major factor in European security and stability.
The EU will forge close ties with the new President of Ukraine, not least in areas such as the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
I shall now turn to transatlantic relations.
Transatlantic relations would not be complete without Canada, and I am delighted that there is to be a summit with Canada during my Presidency, in which we shall be discussing matters of shared importance between friends.
Against this backdrop, I should like to offer my support to the Middle East conference due to take place in London in March&#160;2005.
This, I am sure, will represent an essential step towards consolidating the peace process.
Under the Luxembourg Presidency, the process of EU enlargement will be guided by the decisions taken by the European Council of last December.
As regards Bulgaria and Romania, I hope that Parliament will issue its assent in April on the accession of those two countries, which will enable us to sign accession Treaties, also in April.
Under our Presidency, justice and home affairs activities will be in line with this perspective, and our working basis will fall within the framework of the excellent Hague Programme, adopted by the Council in November of last year.
In order to ensure that the area of freedom, security and justice becomes a reality, we must think European before we think national.
The fight against terrorism must be a permanent priority.
In this regard, I wish to salute the Spanish initiative to host a meeting of the Heads of State or Government in Madrid in March.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we often refer – and rightly so – to the Europe of the citizens.
If we do not succeed in making the EU an area of work and well-being for all, the citizens will become alienated from Europe, from its Union and from the political project that underpins it.
In order to stave off that risk and to give Europe back its economic and social place, we launched the Lisbon Strategy almost five years ago.
The Lisbon Strategy – a name that, to my mind, means absolutely nothing to most people – is in fact a strategy for competitiveness, growth, social cohesion and the protection of the environment.
I am well aware that Europe has a competitiveness problem, which largely explains its mediocre performance in terms of growth and jobs.
No, the competitiveness that we must seek should provide us with stronger and more sustainable growth and should be aimed at greater social cohesion and a more harmoniously-balanced environment.
Please let us not start a foolish and pointless debate over whether we should have more competitiveness and thus less social cohesion, or more social, and less environmental, cohesion.
I say yes to competitiveness; I say no to giving up our social and ecological ambitions.
The EU is more like a research unit –&#160;a unit of unused research, at that – than a factory of ideas that are practical and are put into practice.
We must change this by streamlining our strategy.
Our strategy is essentially European, but its implementation must first be national.
It must be subject to a broad review every two years, or preferably every three years.
We cannot change strategy every six months, from Council to Council, according to the whims of the presidencies and to what is inspiring them at the time.
The strategy must be there for the long haul.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the partial reorientation of the Lisbon Strategy also invites us to reflect on the Growth and Stability Pact.
We began a review of the Pact under the Dutch Presidency and we should like to conclude it under the Luxembourg Presidency.
Economic and Monetary Union needs stability.
We therefore have no intention of driving stability away, neither in what we say nor in what we do.
During times of strong economic growth, Member States in the euro zone must, as a matter of priority, be required to allocate budget surpluses to reducing the debt and the deficit.
From this perspective, Luxembourg is always the loser.
Mr Cohn-Bendit, we shall have a proper debate when the time comes, in committee, without too many witnesses, on the comparison that could be made between France, Germany and Luxembourg as regards taxation.
It is a debate that will be interesting and informative for those who, I must say, view Luxembourg in a somewhat superficial manner.
Mr President, you would no doubt be surprised if I failed to mention the debate that we are to hold on the financial perspectives.
I shall simply say that the Luxembourg Presidency will do all that it can to reach an agreement on the financial perspectives before the end of June.
If we do not reach an agreement on a common position under the Luxembourg Presidency, by 1&#160;January&#160;2007, it will be politically, legislatively and technically impossible to meet the challenge of the enlarged EU.
Mr President, I am relying on Parliament to drive forward the decision-making process on the financial perspectives.
Presidencies come and go, but fortunately Europe remains.
I should therefore like to highlight, from the Commission’s perspective, the particular importance of this Luxembourg Presidency in this first half-year of 2005.
We hope that the other institutions can agree to this programme so that it can become not just part of the Commission's programme, but part of the programme for the entire Union, thus anticipating the provisions of the European Constitution, and we can then begin right away to work within the spirit of the Constitution.
I feel that it is a privilege for us to have Prime Minister Juncker as President of the Council during this period, given his invaluable experience as Head of Government, his deeply-held European conviction and his well-known ability to resolve tricky situations.
Mr President, we have heard from the Presidency about its expectations and priorities.
If we continue on the path of low, diminishing economic growth, we put all our policies at risk, but in particular our capacity to ensure solidarity and security and to preserve and improve the European model.
Companies cannot become more competitive without a better-prepared labour force.
This requires unprecedented effort in the areas of research, development, education and training.
I do not see knowledge purely as an instrument for other objectives: knowledge in itself is an important goal and a vehicle for self-realisation.
The second consensual point I can underline at this stage is about coherence in implementation, the delivery problem.
This means better implementation of the objectives agreed in common, which, in turn, means more responsibility and more empowerment at national level to deliver the common objectives.
Whether we will succeed depends on our ability to establish an effective partnership between our institutions and citizens to deliver this reform.
I should now like to present to you our view of the financial perspectives.
The Luxembourg Presidency has rightly decided to put everything into striving to reach an agreement on the financial perspectives before the end of June 2005.
It is right to do so, because failure to reach an agreement in time will lead to significant difficulties for the preparation of the programmes concerned.
Nowadays, the Commission does not ask that the Union be granted funding for new projects, but usually that it be granted funding for commitments already made; Member States must honour the commitments that they have already made.
The third crucial aspect of the financial perspectives is that of security.
The action programme agreed at the European Council has major financial implications.
This means more action at European level so that the financial burden and collective security can be shared better among the Member States.
The bottom line is that we cannot have more Europe with less money.
This is why I am delighted that the Luxembourg Presidency will do everything in its power to reach a compromise agreement this term.
I honestly believe that the longer we leave this, the more difficult it will be.
We therefore support the Luxembourg Presidency in this difficult, yet extremely important, task.
Nowadays, some are saying that our currency might be too strong, but not too weak.
The single currency is therefore an historic European success story.
At the end of 2003, the Commission initiated a reflection process on the experience that has been gained, in order to identify possible changes and improvements that might help us to implement the Pact more efficiently.
We are already expecting such a consensus at the Ecofin Council on 18&#160;January.
In the next six months, the ability of the European Union to return to growth will be put to the test.
The European Union can and should give a greater contribution in this field.
I see that as a splendid symbol for the ever-growing cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Luxembourg may well be small in geographical terms, but it is a Grand Duchy and hence a great country, and the Benelux states’ presidencies have always been excellent ones.
In Brussels, we will have in-depth discussions on the Lisbon strategy, even though making the European economy competitive is not an end in itself, for the fact is that a strong economy is the best guarantee of good social policy.
For us, that is social policy in the true sense of the word.
Rather than setting ecology and the protection of the environment against the economy, we need a sensible balance between them.
You have mentioned the treaties that are to be signed, but how, in the absence of any agreement by June and of any success in medium-term financial planning, are we to cope with the accession of new states to the European Union?
I am very grateful to you for what you said, and I can agree with every word of it.
To come to the point, then, the less indebted a state is, the more flexible it can be when times are hard for the economy, which also means that we have to do what has to be done to reduce deficits when things are going well for the economy, for we know that today’s debts always end up being tomorrow’s taxes, and a burden on the public as a whole, particularly on the younger generation.
Our support for Ukraine is only just beginning and will have to be an ongoing responsibility.
The European Union’s role must not – contrary to what we are told by not a few high-ranking representatives from the Middle East – be merely a matter of providing financial support, but should involve us, as an honest broker, making our contribution to bringing peace to the Middle East.
Turning to trans-Atlantic relations, I wish you, and of course the President of the Commission, great success with President Bush’s visit, which will usher in a new era of good relations with the United States of America.
For us, the Lisbon policy constitutes the best route towards European competitiveness, the basis of a good life, indeed a better life, for our citizens.
The EU must stop complaining that Europe is said to be falling behind other regions of the world.
In 2003, for example, the Union accounted for 40% of the trade in goods and 45% of the trade in services throughout the world, more than the United States, Japan and China put together.
In other words, this is an important factor in workers’ productivity, and, in turn, in companies’ competitiveness.
The Stability and Growth Pact must become an instrument that provides a means of both combating public deficit and fashioning an economic policy in tune with the economic cycles.
Relaunching Lisbon, the ‘intelligent’ Stability and Growth Pact, financial perspectives that actually offer new perspectives for Europe: these are the Herculean tasks facing the Luxembourg Presidency.
At the same time, we ask the Union not to forget the neglected people of the world.
Simultaneously President-in-Office of the European Council and of the Economic and Finance Council, you are in a unique position from which to reach agreement on one of your biggest and most delicate objectives – the financial perspectives for 2007-2013.
Liberals and Democrats are pleased to note that in your presidency programme you say that 'all progress towards European construction requires adequate financial resources'.
Nonetheless, we, too, recognise that the European Union has justifiable ambitions, whether to run a coherent security strategy, generous development policy or an effective policy of regional aid and social cohesion.
The Stability Pact needs adjusting but it also needs enforcing, with proper monitoring arrangements like those used by the IMF.
Your commitment to a relaunch at this halfway mark will bear fruit if you succeed in completing the single market, in finding more funding for research and in promoting a favourable climate for entrepreneurship.
As Mr Poettering said, we cannot ignore the momentous events in Ukraine in the last two months.
As a collective body of institutions, we must encourage the opening-up of that country and review bilateral relations in the light of new circumstances.
In conclusion, as the Constitution enters its ratification phase, you may have three referenda on your watch, and you must do all in your power to make sure they succeed.
Leave those issues where they belong and make sure Europe gets the Constitution it needs. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, today I have just discovered once again that Christian Democrat in one country does not mean the same thing as Christian Democrat in another country, I congratulate you ...
You said something very interesting.
If you are actually setting up a working group with Mr&#160;Barroso to look at the Lisbon process, I shall be very interested in taking part, in order to try and have everybody singing from the same hymn-sheet.
In fact, we agree with you and disagree with Mr Barroso; competitiveness must go hand in hand with sustainable growth, with social solidarity and environmental responsibility.
If the stingy countries – by which I mean countries and governments that are very close to me – prevail with their 1%, Europe will be the loser.
We are therefore on your side, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the fight against any attempts at reducing the European budget.
Reducing the European budget is in fact tantamount to letting Europe collapse.
To conclude, I should like to say that the tenth anniversary of the Dayton agreement and of Srebrenica falls during your Presidency.
To my mind, services of that kind are expressions of Dutch culture and thanks to the services directive, we will be able to inflict them on everyone.
You will gather that these last words were meant as a provocation, but I should like to ask you in all seriousness to take me up on my invitation.
Mr Juncker, you say that the Stability and Growth Pact will be your top priority, but your past statements serve to illustrate only the inconsistencies.
Finally, the UK Independence Party, and in particular my colleague Mr Farage, has drawn attention to the criminal activities of more than one Commissioner.
Secondly, with regard to the review of the Stability Pact, it has also been emphasised this morning that a reform is needed which can propose a more flexible interpretation of the Pact during times of recession, without bypassing the Maastricht criteria and without giving up the commitment to reduce the debt.
Lastly, I hope that a European civil protection agency will at last be set up during the Luxembourg Presidency so that natural disasters can be dealt with in an appropriate manner, with particular emphasis on prevention. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, there are many in this House who have, for some time, been keen to see you sitting opposite where you are now, and I am one of them.
The work programme you have presented is enormous, but you also have a reputation for working wonders, and it is to the wonder-worker in you that I would like to appeal, asking you also to give attention to the Members’ statute.
Somewhere between your country and mine is to be found not only the problem, but also the solution to it.
We are told that the German Government does not want one before the next elections, but, at the same time, the German model – as regards Members’ remuneration rather than additional earnings and lobbyists – could serve as a basis for an agreement of this kind.
This House must cease to be a parliament of the insatiable, or else serious damage will be done to democracy, which is what this place is all about. &#160;&#160; If the President-in-Office of the Council does not wish to reply to the very specific and precise questions that have just been put to him, we shall continue with the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Luxembourg’s Presidency of the Council in this first half of 2005 is very probably the last of its kind that we shall see.
Under the European Constitution, by the time my country is next in line to take its turn in the presidency, the presidency of the Council of Heads of State or Government will have been permanently reformed.
The biggest and most difficult tasks for our 2005 presidency have to do with finance policy; its agenda is dominated by the determination of the financial framework for the period from 2007 to 2013 and by a more flexible interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact.
In so doing, it will be acting in the interests of every European and of a Union that is not only enlarging itself but also, and at the same time, benefiting its citizens by putting its policies on an adequate and appropriate financial footing, failing which further rounds of enlargement will be quite beyond its capacities.
During the coming six months, Europe’s Stability and Growth Pact is to be reinterpreted in line with the economic situation.
The Luxembourg Presidency of the Council proposes that, by 2010, every Member State should have set in motion tangible and demonstrable reforms in every one of the areas in which the Lisbon strategy requires action.
If it should be under Luxembourg’s Presidency that a start is made on completing the map of Europe, we should bear in mind that Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and Romania have a neighbour whose people see their future as being alongside all of us in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me just start with a brief comment.
I would, though, also like to endorse what you said about the foreign policy aspects.
Two countries in our vicinity – Ukraine and Palestine – have held important elections in recent weeks.
In both instances, the European Union played a very active part in bringing about change through democratic, open and transparent elections, and Europe must, as you said, hang on in there.
Russia must of course acknowledge that there have been changes that it may find disagreeable, but which the people themselves have chosen.
That is what we have achieved, and we will continue to do so if we get stuck in and, as has been said, do not limit ourselves to supplying funds but also help the Palestinian people to gain a state of their own.
The only way to guarantee security in the Middle East is for there to be both an Israel that is secure within its own borders and also a new Palestinian state.
Even if foreign policy is not one of your presidency’s priorities from the word go, we cannot desert the people whom we have helped to bring about change; it is also in our own interest, in the interests of stability and our own continent, that we should help them towards the real political goal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the presidency and congratulate it on its priorities.
The EU faces very considerable challenges during the next six months.
I much appreciate the presidency’s statement that economic growth is important but that the other two pillars of stability are also needed, namely social and environmental development.
What, nonetheless, needs to be explained is not merely the fact that you intend to improve the Lisbon process, but the way in which you intend to do this.
The other issue concerns the energy area.
Mark Twain once said that ‘All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure’.
Finally, the fourth area.
Finally, I should like to congratulate you on a very good presentation of the priorities and hope that, during the next six months, you will be able to achieve the objectives you have established. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am delighted at the clear and courageous statements that have been made by the Luxembourg Presidency with regard to sustainable development policy.
The Luxembourg Presidency, to a greater extent than its predecessors, is attempting to maintain a balance between economic, social and environmental policies.
It is calling for something quite simple, namely that social and environmental policies be a starting point and not an end goal as far as growth policy is concerned.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also hope that you will find the energy to convince the European Council that Europe should continue to act as the driving force behind the Kyoto process.
After the European Union’s success with Kyoto, it is essential that it now set out a long-term framework for climate change policy, with objectives for the period 2020-2050.
It is the ambitious environmental policies of recent decades that have made Europe a global leader in environmental technologies and renewable energies.
I hope that you will revise Chapter V of the Koch report to ensure that the European economy can benefit from these ambitious policies.
The Lisbon agenda should also include an ambitious social policy.
I hope that the Luxembourg Presidency will also take advantage of criticisms from within the Competitiveness Council to hold a debate on this directive, and, if necessary, to check its progress, as well as to force the Commission to table a directive on services of general interest.
I believe that confusion will reign over the Bolkenstein directive until the issue of services of general interest has been clarified.
Firstly, do you believe that the EUR&#160;450&#160;million announced for reconstruction might undermine programmes already planned for Asia (as is the case of EUR&#160;150&#160;million of the EUR&#160;450&#160;million announced)?
Secondly, do you intend to back the cancellation of the debt of countries affected by the tsunami or do you advocate just a moratorium?
Our buildings here are full of expressions of commitment to a ‘yes’ vote: ‘yes’ signs, badges and balloons, their presence decided upon – and paid for out of our common budget – before Parliament has voted.
This will unquestionably be an extremely challenging task, but I am in no doubt that everything in our power should be done to reach a compromise on the budget by June of this year at the latest.
Otherwise we will risk major delays, for example in the drawing up of regional aid programmes, and this could mean EU funds not reaching the Member States in January 2007.
We must therefore ensure that funds are earmarked in the future EU budget for cohesion policy, as this is in the interests of the whole Community.
Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, there can be no doubt that President&#160;Bush’s visit to Brussels will be the most significant event to occur during the six-month Luxembourg Presidency.
It will be the first time that a President of the United States has ever visited the European institutions.
Unless we cooperate closely with the United States, we will struggle to respond to a great many global challenges.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I welcomed your comments on relations with Ukraine.
The European Union must draw its own conclusions from events last year in one of its neighbouring countries.
We should therefore offer them a partnership that could ultimately lead to membership. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you know, the European institutions recently – and, I think, disastrously – cut the Gordian knot with regard to the possible accession of a non-European country, Turkey, to the European Union.
An issue of that kind threatens to change the very nature of the Union as we know it and even puts the future of European cooperation as we know it fundamentally at risk.
It is, above all, an issue in respect of which a large majority of our electorate, our citizens, are very alienated from the position adopted by the official European institutions.
It is clear that success or failure depends not only upon the actions of the Presidency, but it is the case that during this time the Luxembourg Government will have to employ all its determination, and I am pleased that you have stated this morning that you will ensure that the general interest is put first, because, as you have said yourself, to reach July without an agreement would spell financial chaos for the European Union.
I hope that over the next six months this House can learn the cost of enlargement to the original fifteen Member States, because on the objective basis of figures it is possible to make proposals that the European citizens in each Member State can understand and accept.
On the subject of the citizens, and going beyond what is laid down in the Treaties, I would like to ask the Presidency what role it intends the European Parliament, which is going to give its opinion in May, to play in this negotiation? &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, you recently stated, Mr&#160;Juncker, and indeed you repeated just now, that competitiveness will be neither the Holy Grail nor the be all and end all as far as you are concerned, in particular with regard to the mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy.
You noted that social goals and sustainable development goals should not be placed in opposition to goals relating to competitiveness.
My group welcomes this statement, as we believe the opposite to be true, namely that promotion of the European model is a major driving force behind competitiveness on our continent.
We would particularly like to see a clear commitment on your part in relation to other Council members regarding a review of the Directive on Working Time and a removal of the opt-out clause, and, finally, regarding a proposed review of the Directive on European Works Councils. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 1 January, Luxembourg began its eleventh EU presidency.
Mr&#160;President, I very much hope that your success will be equal to the efforts that have been made by so many people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to wish Prime Minister Juncker a positive and productive presidency and am very pleased to see a small, successful, independent country leading the European Union.
Luxembourg is one of the six Member States that is smaller than my own country, Wales, and an example of what an independent Wales could achieve.
The priorities paper tries to maintain the essential balance between economic, social and environmental policies.
Thirty years after legislation was passed on this issue, a report published this week by the GMB trade union in the UK shows that, in Anglesey in my constituency, full-time pay for women is as low as 59% of that for men.
The Luxembourg Presidency is facing the weighty task of reforming the Stability Pact and implementing the conclusions of Wim Kok’s report.
The Commission’s proposal to give due consideration to the economic climate in the Stability Pact offers, in my view, a basis for carrying out adequate reforms.
I would therefore like to ask Mr Juncker in what way we can expect your presidency to follow that up.
Finally, with regard to the Members’ statute, can Parliament expect from the presidency that a decision will finally be made on this subject in the next six months? &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
You are a founding state of the European Union and you are also an example of how a small country can set the tempo and dictate the conditions to the big countries.
The President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, drew attention in his speech today to the increased financial pressure on the new Member States, referring to the backward regions.
I should like to point out that these ten Member States also have great wealth.
Following ratification of the Constitutional Treaty, Europe will build new institutions.
These reforms need to find a common philosophy and a common solution: more growth, more competitiveness and more resources for the Member States.
What you have said on the Stability and Growth Pact is thoroughly acceptable, but it is all provided for in the current system of regulation: the automatic stabilising mechanisms, their relationship with growth or recession, the relationship between greater deficit flexibility and the effectiveness of debt dynamics – all that is already provided for.
I say more ambitious, but that does not mean less rigorous, just more mindful of the strategic needs of our Union.
The financial perspective needs a stronger, not a weaker Union budget, one that focuses more on the investments required by the Lisbon objectives and less on handouts.
The responsibility rests with us all, but please let us not have any hypocrisy. &#160;&#160; Mr Juncker, I would like to focus my brief comments on the financial perspectives, which, of the challenges that have been mentioned today, are perhaps the most difficult facing this Presidency.
In explaining your priorities, you say that you accept the reasons why it is necessary to reach a political agreement on the financial perspectives in June, so that the legislative procedures can be concluded under the British Presidency, reconciling national differences.
We wish you luck, because, on the one hand, there is the enlargement we have just carried out, with ten new Member States whose economic situation mean that we are going to have to make an enormous financial effort with a view to social and economic cohesion, in order to protect the European social model, as you have stressed in your speech.
But it is also necessary to make the Council see that budgetary policy, Mr Juncker, is facing much more important challenges than keeping spending below a particular percentage of gross domestic product.
Let us continue to build a Europe amongst all of us and with sufficient resources, as laid down in the Treaties, so that we do not disappoint the citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the new presidency can be assured that hundreds and thousands of British citizens will fight the proposed European Constitution tooth and nail, and millions of us will vote against it when the time comes!
We have no quarrel with the people of Europe: our quarrel is only with the system of unitary government called the European Union.
But now we understand fully what the EU is really all about.
I should like to bring up one of those challenges, namely more and better jobs, but also sustainability and social cohesion.
Social cohesion is very much one of the Christian Democrats’ principles, and I will always continue to dedicate myself, as I know will our group, to ensure that social cohesion is maintained.
I should like to say a few words about Lisbon, and I want to make a number of points.
First of all, while the objective of what we did in Lisbon was sound, and the result we would like to achieve is excellent, we forgot that, when all those Heads of Government went home, nobody assumed any responsibility or liability for this process.
What matters more than anything else at the moment is, in addition to all the new measures that have to be taken, for people to be made accountable.
I have noticed that we have made a few agreements about the free market that were subsequently flouted by the Member States and also by the European Commission, as regards qualifications, mobility, and so on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon Strategy is so full of grand ideas that we often hear very little – and indeed we have heard very little today – about the simple things, such as improving the quality of our own legislation.
The fact is that the European Union could add between two and six per cent to its productivity if its regulatory framework was matched by the best in the world.
We should therefore be making it a priority of the Luxembourg presidency to encourage the Commission to put real resources into consultations at an early stage in its proposals and to test whether its competitiveness is appropriate.
It seems to me that, in the European Union of 25, implementation enforcement should get far higher priority than it has up until now.
We have also heard considerable talk today about social Europe, but we have to ensure that social Europe applies to everybody and not simply to those who are in work.
Far too many of our citizens are economically inactive, and therefore we should be putting investment into active labour market policies that enable people to get back to work and then policies that support people in order for them to be able to continue in work.
Finally, I urge the Luxembourg presidency to take fresh initiatives in relation to Northern Cyprus so that we can ensure we have effective economic regeneration in that part of the country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to begin by wishing Mr Juncker and his country a successful presidency.
Mr President-in-Office, you assume the leadership of the Union at a crucial period.
The ratification process for the Constitution is underway, the Lisbon process is not yet making enough progress and the future of transatlantic relations is a source of concern.
In March, the European Council will conduct the mid-term review of the Lisbon process.
The United&#160;States continues to out-perform us and the competitive challenges from Asia, particularly China and India, are increasing, with no apparent urgent response from national capitals in our Union.
The presidency must be unequivocal in its support for economic reform, for greater labour market flexibility, for more competitive taxation policies, and for reducing barriers to employment growth, particularly the excessive regulation that pervades all our economies.
Reform will be difficult and fraught with risk, but as the United Kingdom, under Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s and Spain under Mr Aznar in the 1990s proved, a resolute approach to economic reform delivers results.
We look to the spring Council in March to reverse the failures of recent times and put Europe firmly on a free market and enterprise-driven path. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the whole issue of children has been invisible in EU policies and programmes.
However, children's rights are now mentioned in the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
However, there is no mention in your programme of a full-scale strategy on children's rights in accordance with the UN Convention on Children's Rights, which was ratified by most European countries.
The recently published report on trafficking in human beings by the Experts Group has a strong human rights dimension.
I urge the Luxembourg presidency to take this forward, including a specific legal instrument to promote and protect the rights of children who have been trafficked.
I urge the Luxembourg presidency to address this failure without delay by calling for a communication on children's rights and new development cooperation and by supporting references to children's rights as a priority.
The implementation of new guidelines to safeguard children in conflict areas remains a concern.
In order to ensure progress, it is essential that the Luxembourg presidency takes this process forward by completing and putting into practice a plan of action.
In conclusion, it is vital that children's rights are made a priority of the Luxembourg presidency and that children's rights are included in the presidency conclusions. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I have noticed two shortcomings in the Luxembourg Presidency’s programme, and I should like to ask two questions with regard to these shortcomings.
The document outlining the Luxembourg Presidency’s priorities mentions 27&#160;countries and regions outside the EU by name, yet Eastern Europe and Ukraine are not mentioned once.
It would be somewhat alarming if this reflected the Luxembourg Presidency’s views and intentions with regard to the new European democracy that has emerged before our very eyes and on our very doorstep.
The comments made before this House on Ukraine have been very cautious.
Time passes more rapidly, and indeed differently, in Central and Eastern Europe.
The EU’s relations with Ukraine should be advanced to a new level, and the country should be offered an Association Agreement and the prospect of membership.
We should not thwart Ukraine’s European hopes or trade in our fundamental values, such as freedom, democracy and solidarity, for oil and gas.
We need a courageous policy based on our values, not on our financial interests, and promoting democracy, human rights and the right of nations to self-determination.
The forging of more open relations with a democratic Ukraine is both a great challenge and a great responsibility for the Luxembourg Presidency.
Mr President, several speakers have referred to the Lisbon agenda, in particular the group chairmen and other Members such as Mr&#160;Swoboda and Mrs&#160;Oomen.
This holds true for a number of areas of life, and it also holds true for the Lisbon strategy.
A number of you have referred to the much-needed structural reforms that must be carried out in the framework of the Lisbon strategy.
I believe this to be true, but I also believe that European employers could be more flexible.
If I understood him correctly, Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit appears to be moving towards a clear meeting of interests and ideas on this issue.
I would like us, however, to join forces to remove everything from this Directive which poses a risk of social dumping, and which has crept into the text if one reads between the lines.
I should therefore like to call on the Commission, the Council and Parliament to examine this draft directive line by line, searching for any risk of social dumping.
After all, given that everyone, including Mr Bolkestein, tells me that the aim is not to violate the rules which protect our labour markets, we should be able to eliminate the risk of social dumping – a risk I believe to be very much present as far as this directive is concerned – by means of a common reading, if this is indeed our overall intention.
That said, even if we had the opportunity to do so, the directive would not be adopted as it stands during the Luxembourg Presidency, as it requires amendment in several places.
The Statute for Members will be adopted before the end of the Luxembourg Presidency.
The European Union represents everything I support, because I support understanding between peoples and European solidarity – a solidarity that must not be jeopardised by a flawed reform of the Financial Perspective that aims to destroy solidarity instruments.
The Luxembourg Presidency has made its priorities quite clear.
The Commission supports these priorities, and intends to work together with the presidency, all the Member States and the Council in a fair and constructive manner in order to achieve significant results during a six-month period that we regard as crucial.
I would, however, like to turn to an issue which was not mentioned during our introductory speeches, but which has been raised by at least one Member, namely the issue of better lawmaking.
Better lawmaking relates not only to competitiveness, but also to citizenship.
The public view of the European Union’s work is often marked by criticism of its bureaucratic and interventionist nature, and the fact that it is divorced from reality.
Impact assessments are a key factor in ensuring that better preparations are made for crucial political decisions.
I believe that we all agree that economic competitiveness, the environment and social legislation are crucially important in this Europe of ours.
The same cannot be said of competitiveness on a global scale, as this is an area where improvements could be made in relation to our partners.
If one compares Europe – even the Europe of 15 before enlargement – to the United States and Japan with regard to investment in research into new technologies, for example, it can be seen that the investments made by the Europe of 15 only total one third of US investments, and are 30% less than Japanese investments.
I am in no doubt that during this presidency we will all be able to adopt a revised Lisbon strategy, which will have greater force and be able to revive our European social model in a modernised form in order to guarantee the prosperity of our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – This Presidency’s programme only manages not to be a complete disappointment because we did not expect much from its content anyway.
It makes no commitment to take stock of the euro in the 12 Member States of the euro zone, despite increasing problems in most of those countries, not least in view of the currency’s overvaluation.
Children who have been orphaned or separated from family members are particularly vulnerable in these circumstances.
Given the scale of the disaster, and in close cooperation with the Dutch Presidency, the Luxembourg Presidency reacted immediately after 26 December by visiting the area concerned on 1 January, along with the Commission.
On the basis of these first contacts with the United Nations and the countries affected, and following the extended emergency summit held in Jakarta, the presidency called a General Affairs and External Relations Council on 7 January, which brought together a great many ministers for foreign affairs, cooperation and health.
The Council meeting of 7 January reiterated the European Union’s solidarity with the countries affected and with their citizens, whom it thanked – and this is a very important point – for the support they gave to European citizens present in those countries at the time of the disaster.
The Council also paid tribute to the general spirit of solidarity that had been demonstrated by civil society and by the public.
The main and most immediate outcomes of this Council meeting were as follows; with regard to financial issues, the Council announced that combined state aid from the European Union and the Member States for the victims of the tsunami currently stood at around EUR&#160;1.5&#160;billion, including both emergency aid and reconstruction aid.
The Council noted, however, that this figure should not lead us to forget the general issue of development, humanitarian aid and the Millennium Development Goals, especially in Africa, nor to reduce the resources set aside for that purpose.
The European Union and its Member States will act in support of the WHO.
The first of these instruments is a prevention strategy and an early-warning and rapid reaction system for disasters, particularly with a view to the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, which will be held in Kobe, in Japan, from 18 to 22&#160;January.
Secondly, improvements will be made to the civil protection mechanism and humanitarian aid, and analytical capacity enhanced.
The Council hopes to build up rapid response capabilities for the European Union by putting in place appropriate structures for planning, coordination and resource mobilisation.
Fourthly, there are other measures which the Council will need to examine, such as the development of an EU rapid response capability, or in other words an early-warning system.
The General Affairs Council of 31 January will return to all the measures and strategies envisaged by the EU and the Member States for the medium and long term, with a view to drawing up an operational action plan for the EU.
On the evening of 7 January, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, the European Commissioner competent for such matters, myself and the ministers responsible for health and cooperation reported back to a large delegation from this House.
It also makes us consider the nature of national- and European-level political action aimed at dealing with the impact of natural disasters such as this one.
I feel that this is an appropriate time for us to think about our instruments and our policies and about the ways in which we coordinate our efforts and in which we share responsibilities among national authorities and European institutions.
The giant wave completely swept away any human presence along 500 kilometres of coastline, destroying everything in its path and reaching places more than five kilometres inland.
This enormous natural disaster has left 150&#160;000 dead in its wake, and more than 5&#160;million people homeless and traumatised, who now have to face the challenge of picking up what remains of their devastated families, rebuilding their homes, restoring economic activities and, in short, trying to start their lives again.
I want to praise all of those directly and indirectly involved in this enormous effort.
As regards the management of the crisis, I want to highlight the excellent cooperation between the Commission and the Council presidency, in particular the cooperation of Prime Minister Juncker, and the European Parliament.
We have shown how crucial it is to ensure sound and effective interinstitutional cooperation.
Indeed, at the conference in Jakarta I mentioned a special message that President Borrell Fontelles sent me and asked me to transmit to the heads of state and government gathered there.
Without having had an opportunity for detailed discussion in Parliament's plenary and the Council, I indicated to the pledging conference in Jakarta that the Commission's EUR 450 million pledge was conditional on its approval by the budgetary authorities and that includes you, the European Parliament.
While it is still early days, I should like to explain in more detail what I have in mind as to how best to use the Commission's pledge, if you and the Council agree to the funding that we have proposed.
Through our humanitarian assistance office, ECHO, we were one of the first organisations to respond to the disaster by making – EUR 23 million available – EUR 3 million of which were available on the day of the disaster itself – in humanitarian aid to the Red Cross and other partners for meeting essential needs.
We reinforced ECHO staff on the ground, and our experts have been working closely with the United Nations and other donors to assess needs and ensure the coordination of the humanitarian aid effort on the ground.
We have also been quick in mobilising civil protection.
Within 24 hours of the disaster, the Centre sent assessment and coordination experts to Thailand and Sri Lanka.
I understand that the word 'reprogramming' has caused some concern in Parliament.
The funds for projects planned for 2005 are already on the table and can be used for the urgent and immediate reconstruction work.
We need to move with reconstruction funds now.
All donors are responding in the same way, including the World Bank, to mobilise funds for the tsunami relief project as fast as possible.
We may ask whether this will lead to a cancellation of projects already planned.
But this does not mean that we cannot proceed now by giving direct priority to the relief for this disaster.
In Indonesia, the Commission has a EUR 35 million programme which aims to improve access and quality of healthcare at community level.
If the government of Indonesia agrees, this can be extended quickly to help rebuild and strengthen healthcare facilities damaged by the tsunami.
In Sri Lanka we are planning to cooperate with the World Bank on a housing programme to assist the resettlement of internally-displaced persons.
We already know that needs are huge and there could be room for an even higher contribution of fresh funds if both Parliament and the Council agree to it.
I fully support the line agreed in Jakarta that the countries must conduct assessments of need and create their own national tsunami reconstruction plans.
We should not flood the countries with hundreds of different facilities and instruments drawn up beforehand with donors or international financial institutions.
This approach is the only way in which the affected countries can coordinate the aid efficiently.
The European Commission has been active from day one on all fronts, from humanitarian aid to civil protection and, increasingly so, to rehabilitation and reconstruction.
We will pursue our efforts relentlessly.
I recognise the importance Parliament places on additional measures beyond aid that the European Union can provide further to help the countries affected by the tsunami.
You can rest assured that all Commission departments are mobilised in their particular areas to investigate what can be done in this regard.
The Member States and Commission agreed in the General Affairs Council to offer direct support to the countries in their efforts to develop early-warning systems so they will be better able to respond to future disasters.
I hope that this initiative will work and we will report back to you with the results of our work.
The Commission is also considering proposals for a new European Union approach to reinforce capacity for disaster prevention and, as discussed in the extraordinary Council meeting last Friday, we intend to look at early-warning mechanisms and preparation for disaster management, the ways to further improve the Commission's humanitarian aid provision, and civil protection, with a view to developing our rapid response to crises in third countries in full respect of the specificity and principles of humanitarian aid.
We expect to present that proposal at the Council meeting on 31 January 2005.
In every successful emergency programme organised by the Commission, Parliament has played a pivotal role.
I am confident that you will play an important role in facilitating the Commission's programme of reconstruction after the tsunami.
To this end, I will undertake that the Commission will report to you regularly on progress, both in plenary and in committees.
The College had an extensive discussion yesterday on the Asian crisis and on how we should organise our follow-up to the work done so far.
By the end of this month, I expect to present Commission proposals for an improved European crisis response capability.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner will go to the region in the coming weeks to further assess needs and to put more flesh on this proposal.
The outpouring of support from our private citizens for this crisis further shows their support for the full commitment of all European Union institutions to deliver on the promises we have made.
As a Sri Lankan-born Member of this Parliament, I wish to express my gratitude to all those who have responded so generously to appeals, and especially for the help given by the peoples of Europe; my own country, Britain, in particular; and my constituents in the south-east of England.
The EU and its Member States have together pledged almost EUR 1.5 billion so far.
The Commission and Parliament have sanctioned EUR&#160;23 million and promised funds of EUR 350&#160;million, although EUR 150 million of that is not new money, but will be taken from existing long-term developments.
In the past the international community has not done so.
A rapid reaction civilian corps for aid delivery, as proposed by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, is most welcome.
Our aid must be visible.
I was embarrassed in Sri Lanka because EU aid was immediately delivered, but was done so invisibly, despite Commissioner Michel being extremely visible and hands-on.
An authenticated telephone call to CNN and the other broadcast networks could have saved thousands of lives in Sri Lanka, Somalia and Thailand.
After all, the Americans evacuated Diego Garcia.
In Sri Lanka I hope that reconstruction will also mean reconciliation and that aid will be consistent with the December 2002 Oslo talks and the Tokyo Donor Conference expectations.
We should expect no less for Indonesia, with its Aceh separatists.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament can say that we endorse all these initiatives, and that this House must grant all the financial and organisational support that is needed.
I think everyone – including Mr Deva, who has just spoken – has made it clear that, as far as Parliament is concerned, both the economic resources and the organisational measures are guaranteed.
I can therefore limit myself to making a few basic observations on this disaster, which has made it apparent that we live in a global village and that the solidarity that is self-evidently necessary in the world in which we live must be supranational in character.
I learned this morning that the people of Beslan have collected a million roubles – amounting to EUR&#160;30&#160;000 – as an expression of solidarity with the tsunami’s victims.
In a situation like theirs, there can be no greater example of humane conduct, of solidarity, indeed of human greatness.
It provides an opportunity to reassert the role and the benefit of multilateral action through the United Nations, but also a challenge to the United Nations to prove itself up to the task.
The response of the European Union, too, has put us on to a good start, and I salute the prompt action of Commissioner Michel and the support that his colleagues gave.
European Union aid, both public and private, has been impressive in its generosity.
ECHO funds were released rapidly in the aftermath of the disaster.
More than 150&#160;000 people have lost their lives, whole communities have been wiped out.
This tragedy has called forth a major response in donations from individuals a world away, to families of victims they have never met, yet wish to help, reminding us how small our global community is.
Let us build on this opportunity to set aside our differences.
If each Member State contributed an expert in humanitarian aid to ECHO, a central resource would exist with expertise in the response capacity of different national facilities.
Intervention in support of conflict prevention and humanitarian intervention are intimately linked, and we support the Commission’s views on this matter.
I believe we should state clearly that the only practicable possibility is to cancel their foreign debt.
Given figures like those, our donations cannot provide any practical aid unless we cancel the debt.
Thirdly, we must examine in depth what is happening in our area.
However, if a similar earthquake occurred here, in the Mediterranean, the tsunami would reach the Alps and would flatten Greece, Italy, Malta, Cyprus, France, Spain and other countries.
We therefore need to look at what we can do in this direction.
I say this in my name and in the name of the overwhelming majority of Europeans. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while the vote on Article 6 was being taken, I was addressed by a member of the Convention and mistakenly cast a ‘no’ vote.
I would like to make it clear that I am in favour of Article 6, am voting in favour of it, and am happy to see the Constitutional Treaty adopted. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, thank you for allowing me to speak to explain my vote after the sitting was suspended by the President.
I confirm that I voted for the report by Mr Manuel Medina Ortega on civil liability in motor vehicle accidents, which unfortunately occur all over Europe.
A further aspect of this issue is the general problem of harmonisation when economic situations vary from country to country.
This must be taken into account, especially in southern countries, such as Portugal, which have always had reservations on this issue.
This report should also add clarity to what legal assistance drivers are entitled to following an accident.
It was therefore necessary to update and strengthen protection through compulsory cover for victims of accidents caused by one motor vehicle, and to ensure greater convergence in the way in which Member States interpret and implement the directive.
With this fifth Directive it will be easier to obtain effective and valid civil liability insurance outside the country of residence, and to sell or buy a vehicle in another Member State.
Furthermore, this text increases legal protection for the victims of accidents.
The legislative resolution is thus in line with measures to strengthen protection for the victims of road accidents and seeks to ensure that the injured party is duly reimbursed.
These have now borne fruit in the shape of Part Two of the Constitutional Treaty, which contains the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Moreover, in view of the probable accession of Turkey, a country which will considerably shake up the functioning of all institutions, the text is already superseded before it is ratified in the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to say that I think there is something very unusual about the way in which statements of vote are being dealt with in this instance.
The report on which we have just voted states that: ‘the greatest advances brought by the Constitution are to be found in the specific area of common security policy’.
That is the principal reason why I reject this Constitutional Treaty for the EU.
Its Article I-41, paragraph 3 states that ‘the Member States are obliged to progressively improve their military capacities’, which means that the EU’s Member States are obliged to rearm.
At the same time, there are aspects of it that give me cause for concern, one of them being the open coordination method as cooperation – with non-binding legal status – between Member States in the fields of social and employment policy, research policy, health policy and industrial policy.
I voted in favour of the Convention because, despite my misgivings about it, it represents an improvement on the present situation and the law as it stands.
I am saddened, though, that this Constitution contains no reference to God.
Another reason, though, why I voted in favour of the Constitution, was that its Article 57 makes it possible for Turkey and other countries to be offered a long-term and privileged partnership in the context of special relationships.
At the same time, the N-VA regards the Constitution as a missed opportunity.
The regions that make up Europe are not allocated a single (formal) role in the European decision-making process.
Apart from a noncommittal paragraph concerning the recognition of the national identity of the Member States, in this Constitution, the Union completely overlooks the institutional reality in various Member States.
For the first time, this Treaty includes a separate chapter on cooperation with third countries and on humanitarian aid.
The European Union has therefore reached a significant milestone, by acknowledging in its Constitutional Treaty that solidarity cannot be limited to its own territory and its own citizens, but should extend beyond its borders.
Indeed, an opinion poll in Portugal found that only 4% of the public supported this solution, as opposed to 86% in favour of shared or national power.
It is the duty of every citizen, and in particular of the citizens who depend on those resources for their livelihoods, people who cannot be ignored by the European institutions and by the representatives of the Member States.
I trust that this ‘unjustified anomaly’ will soon be rectified. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has today voted in favour of the report on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, A6-0070/2004.
We are also opposed to the procedure laid down in Article IV-444 and generally known as the passerelle, because we consider it fundamental that changes to the Treaty be ratified by each Member State before they enter into force.
The Constitutional Treaty makes the basic rules governing cooperation in the European Union easier to understand.
We are in favour of the greater weight given to subsidiarity, and we support the wordings that re-confirm and further develop the national parliaments’ role in European cooperation.
I fully support this report and eventually support adoption of the draft Constitution.
The Constitution was drafted in a uniquely democratic process and putting in place a Constitution for Europe by way of a binding treaty between sovereign states is the most important European decision citizens will make.
But it had become increasingly obvious, particularly since the Nice European Summit in 2000, that the old intergovernmental method of revising European Treaties did not enable adequate European responses to the common challenges facing us to emerge, nor did it enable citizens to feel that the process belonged to them.
Whilst the Constitution falls short of what Parliament wanted and has enshrined controversial issues, such as the question – extremely important to Madeira and the Azores – of the Union’s exclusive competences in the area of the conservation of marine biological resources, against which a number of opposing views were raised at the Convention, and in the opinion on the Constitution issued by the Committee on Fisheries, I do acknowledge that it represents a welcome compromise and an improvement on the Treaties in force, as mentioned by the joint rapporteurs, and is a significant step towards achieving the European project, from the point of view of both the Member States and the citizens of Europe.
Not only does the Constitution maintain and strengthen the possibility of modulating the implementation of all European policies to the outermost regions, but it is also confirmed that this article constitutes a valid legal basis that is sufficient to underpin the development of a genuine policy for the outermost regions.
I shall be voting in favour of adopting the Constitution.
To begin with, I cannot vote in favour of this resolution because my criticisms of the Constitution outnumber by far the very few aspects of it which could be regarded as slight progress.
The policies and ideological choices set out in the Constitutional Treaty have no place in a constitution, and they preclude any possibility of different policies being implemented.
The Treaty also declares Europe’s objectives to be a social market economy, sustainable development and the fight against discrimination.
Secondly, it helps ensure territorial cohesion by means of a set of provisions that will help the EU’s regions to manage their own development.
I shall therefore vote against, both today and in the referendum to be held in my country. &#160;&#160; We have voted against this report.
We define subsidiarity in terms of political decisions having to be taken as close to the people as possible and in terms of its being the national parliaments and not the EU institutions that determine which issues are to be decided upon at which level.
Our definition of a superstate is an EU state in which the Council as a rule takes decisions on a qualified majority basis, in which not all the Member States are represented in the Commission and in which the European Parliament has the right of codecision on all issues.
A common foreign and asylum policy, a rapid reaction force designed to intervene elsewhere in the world and an EU budget increased through the EU’s being given the right of taxation are among the factors that extend the exercise of political power by this ‘superstate’.
This draft Constitution should be replaced by a new draft intergovernmental Treaty that gives central place to the national parliaments’ political responsibility.
The fact that this Parliament's Fisheries Committee almost unanimously supported that view in its opinion reflects a strongly held point of view in Scotland's fisheries dependent communities.
This is yet another example of failure on the part of a Westminster Government to act in the best interests of fishing communities, and will undoubtedly motivate many voters in Scotland to vote for rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in a referendum. &#160;&#160; .– If it were left to the Greens, the draft Constitution would be a good deal more ambitious than the one we have been presented with.
Such a draft would be without ambiguities or uncertainties as to its objectives; it would not have this third part which, doing nothing more than recapitulating previous treaties, is in contradiction to a global and ambitious project for Europe.
A Constitution will enable us to launch this peaceful Europe as the custodian of such shared values as human rights and democracy.
To fail in this historic moment would be to negate our own labour as builders of Europe and would for a considerable time put the brakes on the ambitious development of the European project that we wish to see … &#160;&#160; The EU could operate perfectly well with one Commissioner per country.
The referendum on the Constitution will be held in a few months’ time, just before negotiations on accession begin.
This Constitution organises a state with the appearance of unity, hiding the federalist mechanisms within it.
It also represents the culmination of a slow and progressive process of political and legal stratification and the institutionalisation of a new totalitarian organisation.
These peoples are treated with contempt, and each consultation, be it parliamentary or in the form of a referendum, will ratify and confirm policies that are in fact already being implemented.
It is out of place for the European Parliament to recommend that the Member States ratify or reject the Treaty, as final decisions on this matter and completion of the ratification process fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of the sovereign national authorities designated for this purpose.
We denounce the neo-Liberal and socio-economic component in it which, under the guise of ‘free trade’ undermines public services and denies national and local authorities the right to determine for themselves how they want to organise their public services.
Some of my fellow Members may be prepared to sell their souls to neo-Liberalism for a handful of extra parliamentary means of power, I do not intend to do so.
The presence in Parliament's motion of the highly reactionary Article 43 adopting the US doctrine of preventive war as civil protection from terrorist attack constitutes provocation.
The Constitution requires rearmament, in that ’the Member States are obliged to progressively improve their military capacities’, a process to be supervised by an ‘agency in the field of defence capabilities development, research, acquisition and armaments’, which will also implement ’appropriate measures to strengthen the industrial and technological basis of the defence sector’.
We are also critical of the way in which the principles of neo-liberalism are to be enshrined in the Constitution.
The general ‘Objectives of the Union’ do admittedly gloss over matters by talking in terms of ‘a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, but the part that actually deals with policy then speaks in plain language of a commitment to the ‘principle of an open market economy with free competition’.
Far from reflecting this view, the draft report takes a completely uncritical view of the draft Constitution.
I should like to take this opportunity to highlight the important consolidation of the status of the outermost regions, which falls within the scope of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
On the positive side, I should like to highlight the simplification that the unification of the Treaties has achieved, the clearer distinction between national and European powers, the strengthening of the role of national parliaments and the guarantee that the Union only has at its disposal the powers attributed to it by the Member States.
Furthermore, the fact that this Treaty represents a moment of stabilisation in the process of revising the Treaties brings security and stability.
This draft is no doubt a compromise but it also represents a considerable advance.
The Union of 25 will be stabilised by having a President appointed for two and a half years instead of a presidency that rotates every six months.
In short, the European Union is becoming more democratic, more transparent, clearer and more effective.
It may be, though, that the hardest task awaits us yet: to complete ratification in all our Member States, and hence to explain it in such a way as to persuade Europe’s citizens.
This text sees us continuing the work of the founding fathers who wanted this Europe of 25 States – soon to be more – and dreamed of it.
This Constitutional Treaty makes of Europe’s humanist, spiritual and social heritage a foundation for the governance of our daily lives.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights acquires legal force and becomes binding on citizens.
Rules are made simpler, and increasingly resemble those with which we are familiar in our 25 democracies.
The Union will have a greater political role in the world, will at last be able to carry weight, and, I hope, will exert greater influence in the comity of nations in spreading abroad the ideal of peace which presided over its birth.
I voted in favour of the Corbett report, and will, in my own country, participate in the campaign in favour of the ratification of the text in a referendum.
As a Member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I voted in favour, because I firmly believe that this represents a step forward towards consolidating the European social policy.
Economic and social cohesion has been reaffirmed as a key objective of the EU.
New norms have been introduced as regards a high level of employment, the fight against social exclusion and discrimination, the promotion of social justice, social protection, equality between men and women and a high level of education and health, the promotion of sustainable development and respect for services of general interest.
The EU’s role on the international stage has also been strengthened, in the fight to eradicate poverty and in the promotion of sustainable development and fair trade.
Furthermore, new provisions will facilitate the participation of the citizens, social partners and representatives of civil society in EU discussions.
It fails to mention that too many areas of policy are still left to intergovernmental cooperation and that important areas are still subject to veto.
The role of the constitutional regions in the European decision-making process remains precarious.
The European Union is still too little in the way of a security union and is at risk of emphasising the deployment of military means in favour of conflict prevention.
I join with a large majority of the European Parliament in supporting the argument that we need to prompt the citizens of Europe, along with national and regional parliaments, into assuming a positive attitude.
The text, which is now to be ratified democratically, contains only steps in the right direction: it offers more scope in order to commit to those areas of policy in an open, transparent, democratic and effective manner where the Union can, and should, add value for the benefit of the public.
A new treaty should be negotiated for the European Union, which should serve as a basis for its development as a federation of independent states. &#160;&#160; .The new Europe means survival because it rejects all forms of totalitarianism.
European integration, the way the 25 EU Member States function together and making the Community procedures work better must be improved and must progress, with care, little by little.
Under this Constitution, the uncontrolled European Court of Justice will apply judgements directly and unequivocally to all Community institutions and bodies and the Member States.
Granted, the Treaty of Nice did not contain any reference to Europe’s Christian heritage; but it did not claim to be a Constitution either. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a serious complaint: about 15 minutes ago a peaceful protest was about to take place against the Constitution – a banner was to be unfurled.
You will receive a complaint in writing. &#160;&#160; All that will be forwarded to the relevant office of the House.
I would like to ask whether this happened as a result of your instructions and whether or not you are prepared to take responsibility for this?
The simple truth about the political context of this disaster should finally be told.
Local political interests are being played out in the shadow of the terrible tsunami tragedy.
The USA and certain European countries wish to improve their image in this part of Asia and extend their influence over the continent by means of humanitarian measures.
The aid we provide should be rapid and based on solidarity, and it should not be held up by a bureaucratic obstacle course. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by saying that I agree with all the expressions of sympathy in response to the calamity in South-East Asia.
The donations made by people in the European Union and throughout the world are a truly overpowering demonstration of goodwill.
It also has to be said that the way in which the European Union has gone about things there is hardly likely to call forth rapturous enthusiasm about the success of the work it does.
In the face of the tsunami, European citizens have been amongst the most generous.
I welcome the Commission's promise of an extra EUR&#160;350 million, but I was not convinced by President Barroso's explanation this morning, because for years humanitarian aid budgets for Asia have been in decline, from 70% in 1990 to 38% in 2000.
There is, however, one aspect of the South-East Asian situation about which I feel there is considerable reticence on the part of all politicians, at least in their public speeches.
Such elements make the whole reconstruction effort highly problematic, yet I have heard very little said about them, especially in public speeches.
I am convinced that real, effective reconstruction is impossible without resolving the political problems: genuine political reconstruction needs to be set in motion throughout the region, to renew the currently stalled peace processes and also to strengthen the institutions and the rule of law, without which the forces of instability are likely to come to a head.
This is a great opportunity.
In this context, I believe the European Union should address the problem of its political presence during the reconstruction process, because at the moment it is not visible and it will be even less visible later.
These are matters which, if ignored, will prevent you from properly managing the reconstruction process, which will be long and difficult but also potentially very worthwhile. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when the tsunami came, rich and poor alike were affected.
I call upon you to send our heartfelt thanks to the people of Thailand and other affected countries who fulfilled our ideals of compassion, humanity and solidarity.
We can begin to fulfil the same ideals by giving substantial aid to the countries affected, introducing fair trade, combating poverty and hunger and allowing our emergency services to help each other more effectively. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the impressive mobilisation of global and European public opinion is inciting both governments and the European Union to act more effectively by strengthening international cooperation under the aegis of the UN.
The role of the UN is crucial here.
Thirdly, I propose that the European Parliament support the proposal formulated at the United Nations back in September 2004, and already supported by about 100 countries, on a global tax on capital transactions, arms sales and the consumption of non-renewable energy, in order to finance emergencies from natural disasters.
Fourthly, we need to strengthen the European civil protection programme more generously with resources and mechanisms.
The relevant report, which I presented a month ago and which was approved by the European Parliament by an overwhelming majority, needs to be strengthened more generously over coming years. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, how many days went by before European Union intervention arrived in the countries hit by the tidal wave, even though it was known right from the very first hours after the disaster that the tsunami had affected thousands of tourists of European origin?
While Europe and the West took action, those extremely wealthy nations, those multi-billionaire countries and regimes that profess Islam excelled in their parsimony. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I first wish to join with others in offering my sympathy to the people of South-East Asia who have been so badly affected by this awful tragedy.
The reaction from the citizens of Europe and other parts of the world has been absolutely outstanding: people have really shown their humanity to the people affected.
I also wish to say, as have other speakers, that, after the meeting on Monday night, I am not completely convinced by President Barroso's position on the resources.
In Europe we are mourning thousands of our own citizens, but with admiration for and gratitude to the local people who, despite their own loss and pain, found the courage and compassion to care for bewildered and frightened foreign tourists.
Promises must be kept and we must develop the early warning systems which, as we now know, are already available in the form of the underground testing systems based in Vienna.
Above all, Europe must now respond to the new public mood which demands that the divisions of our world must be healed through a determined combating of poverty and disease and the removal of barriers that have stopped poorer countries trading in our markets.
Surely our governments – north and south – and our European Union, can build on that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to express our horror, our condolences, our solidarity and our commitment to contribute to alleviating the effects of this disaster.
Fourthly, the commitment to follow emergency actions with the essential reconstruction actions, in agreement with the main protagonists; the countries affected.
Fifthly, the commitment to implement an early warning system capable of preventing similar disasters.
The European Union, Mr President, must be a match for this disaster and for the mobilisation demonstrated by our societies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is no doubt that the huge number of deaths resulting from this disaster essentially reflect the enormous vulnerability of the peoples of the region.
There is a twin opportunity here: while, on the one hand, it is extremely urgent that we cancel that debt immediately – not as an act of compassion, but as recognition of the fact that the people who have already suffered as a result of irresponsible regimes should not have to suffer all over again by having to pay off their debts – on other hand, international aid must be based fundamentally on donations and not on new loans which increase the burden of that debt even further. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the tragedy in Asia is still inconceivable for many of us.
We are all in mourning, irrespective of nationality, and our sympathy grows out of this solidarity.
Let us make use of this feeling of solidarity in order to choose better priorities in future.
Environmental researchers maintain that the disaster could have been avoided, if not completely then in part – with far fewer casualties and material damage – if the coral reefs and mangrove forests had been left in place.
If governments had carried out some sort of objective analysis of what threatened not only their own countries but the planet and the whole of humanity and had prepared themselves for these threats, then warning systems would have been in place and the emergency work would have been better planned.
That is true, but it must be remembered that this, at the same time, shows that tourism, like trade in goods and services, in actual fact brings the people of the world together and makes us realise that we belong together.
In this case, the problem was not that the EU had no policy but that some countries, such as Italy, implemented this very well while other countries, such as my own, implemented it badly.
We must not try to use tragedies for EU purposes, but look to see what the EU in actual fact has to contribute, presumably in terms of consular services. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, last week I had the opportunity of meeting with people from countries hit by the disaster and today I should like to voice those people's concerns.
Secondly, they wish to rebuild through their own efforts the lives and natural resources that have been destroyed.
Secondly, given that the UN has the main coordinating role, Parliament should hear the UN's opinion at the next session, on both the situation and the use of aid. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as Vice-Chairman of the delegation to ASEAN, I should like to express my sympathies with the families of the victims in South-East Asia, and also to the families of the victims who came from Europe.
We can be proud of the substantial amount that the European Union is preparing to remit to the countries in South-East Asia, an amount decided on at the Geneva donors’ conference.
Europe could propose, at the Kobe conference, the use of the World Environment Fund to develop civil security units or even to set up a fund for voluntary contributions towards an early warning system, such as exists in the Indian Ocean.
The Commission and the Council must therefore ensure that additional new funds are created.
It is vitally important that the UN should play a coordinating role, and that the role of local organisations and local priorities should be respected.
Commissioner Michel has pledged a scoreboard of EUR&#160;475 million in commitments/funds.
What matters most in my view is that the poorest of the poor, those poor fishing communities, receive the pledged funds and that they can have a say in how they are spent.
With regard to Europe, I should like to quote the words of Johan Cruyff: ‘’ – for every disadvantage there is an advantage.
The credibility of this House and of the European Union depends on three things being done.
Mr President, I believe another particularly important point – and I would ask the Commissioner to communicate this comment to the Commissioner responsible for Transport – is that it is incredible that at European level there is still no common system for the prevention of tidal waves.
This is a very cheap system and I believe that the European Union, in the field of aid to the developing countries, the ACP countries and the countries of the Mediterranean rim, could offer it in a genuinely significant manner in order to prevent that kind of disaster.
One of the elements, Mr President, of the draft resolution Parliament is going to approve tomorrow that I believe to be correct is its reference to the solidarity demonstrated by the local populations and the solidarity and support they have offered to the families from the European Union who have fallen victim to this tragedy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too wish to begin by expressing my deep sympathy for all those who, across the world, have been affected by the Asian tsunami.
As decision makers, we must also accept our long-term responsibility.
If emergency services are to operate effectively, there has to be an international organisation whose national components have taken part in frequent joint exercises and that operates in crises caused by, for example, earthquakes, floods or terrorist attacks.
The EU should therefore have an emergency service that operates both within and outside European borders and that always sends help immediately, irrespective of whether it is Spaniards, Swedes or Somalis who have been affected.
What, after all, can be more important in a form of international cooperation such as the EU than, specifically, the saving of human lives?
An EU emergency service should strengthen and supplement the Member States’ own emergency services and civil crisis management and, of course, cooperate closely with the UN.
I hope that the Commission will lose no time in extending the existing responsibility for crisis management in order that still greater responsibility might be accepted in the future disasters for which I unfortunately believe we must prepare ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have just two points to make.
In this respect, the pilot project undertaken by the Thai Ministry of the Environment jointly with the UN and the World Bank to repair the environmental damage on the island of Koh Phi Phi strikes me as showing the way ahead. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the huge extent of the disaster and destruction caused the tsunami, as well as its emotional and physical impact, will be felt among the victims for years to come.
I would congratulate the Commission and Council on their rapid and sufficient response immediately following the disaster and on the involvement they have displayed.
In any event, aid to Asia should not be at the expense of relief to other poverty-stricken areas such as Africa.
The world’s attention is on Asia, with good reason, but tomorrow too, some 20&#160;000 people will die again of poverty-related illnesses, such as HIV, aids, malaria and tuberculosis.
Tomorrow too, many more people will die or be forced to flee their homes, for example in Darfur, Sudan and elsewhere.
In short, I hope that the disaster will be not only a unique example of financial solidarity, but also a unique example in terms of showing how aid programmes should be implemented.
Our efforts should moreover not be at the expense of the eight million people who die every year from preventable diseases such as malaria.
One of the paragraphs in our resolution opposes the use of the EDF B envelope to support those countries in East Africa.
Indeed, it is very unclear how funds can be made available for Somalia from an EDF envelope from which it does not even benefit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the world was shocked by the massive undersea earthquake, which took place on 26 December 2004.
I would like to make two suggestions.
One is that we should somehow try to legislate, or to get Member States to legislate, for the 0.7% of GNP contribution, as required by our commitment to the United Nations.
Secondly, implementing a coordinated and sustained effort by donor governments gives rise for concern.
Some time ago, a EUR 2.5 billion commitment to Honduras for reconstruction after Hurricane Mitch was barely delivered on to the extent of one-third of that commitment: this is totally unacceptable.
The fight against poverty must become a core commitment so that today’s interdependent world may be governed by criteria of equality and justice.
We have to move on urgently from words to deeds, cancelling the debts of all poor countries, opening our markets to trade with those countries, allocating 0.39% of Europe’s GIP to development aid by 2006 – in line with the moral commitment we accepted at Monterey – and, lastly, establishing a levy on international transactions to finance development and thus to meet the Millennium Objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to add to Mr Martens’ words of appreciation for the Commission’s rapid and effective response to the request for aid.
My second point concerns the enormous damage suffered by fisheries.
As we in Europe have a great deal of expertise in that area, it would be appropriate if the European Union, as well as concluding fisheries agreements across the world, were to assist those coastal areas at this particular time, ensuring that the necessary attention is given to equipping fishing vessels and safe fishing, that high levels of funds are invested in this area and that we focus on this accordingly.
We need to invest in the Union's civil protection system, coordinating and strengthening prevention and the rapid-response capability for all Member States.
Finally, the EU and its Member States need to honour commitments under the Millennium Declaration and engage all rich nations in fighting the tsunamis of poverty, which kill hundreds of thousands every month through hunger, disease and war, in particular in Africa.
In the EU, people have donated billions; one television programme in Germany brought in EUR&#160;40 million.
It is to be hoped that the measures that have been planned will succeed; I am thinking here of, for example, the installation of satellite-based early warning systems – to which Members have referred – to prevent disasters.
First of all, I would like to thank those people who, even though affected by the disaster and with needs of their own, helped many citizens of our Member States.
I would also like to thank the public services, the aid organisations and the volunteers, who set their hands to the task immediately.
Thirdly, I would like to ask the Commission whether, in the interests of long-term support for its aid measures to the worst-hit countries, it is contemplating making use of the Regulation on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from July 2005 to the end of 2008, and, if that is the case, by how much does it envisage the preferences for the benefit of the affected countries being extended? &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no one in this House who doubts that the countries affected by the tsunami tragedy need rapid, effective and coordinated aid.
The European Union must do more than merely send funds, however.
We must plan a programme of long-term infrastructure and economic reconstruction in the countries of South-East Asia and Africa affected by the tsunami tragedy.
In addition, a special early-warning system should be put in place to protect the international community from similar disasters in future, and special funds should be set aside for these measures.
As a member of the Delegation for Relations with the Countries of South Asia, I would ask that this Delegation become an active and natural point of reference for issues concerning aid for tsunami victims and measures to prevent any irregular use of funds, as the latter could occur if proper monitoring procedures are not put in place.
On the contrary, I would be more than happy to see nothing but solidarity in our conflict-filled world, and nothing but solidarity of this kind, not hostile or violent solidarity aimed at pitting the strongest against the weakest.
The second question relates not to the principles according to which aid is granted, but to the way it is organised.
The tragedy in Asia has made us painfully aware that, just as we need a central headquarters where military actions are coordinated in times of war, we need a central headquarters where aid can be coordinated whenever disasters occur on a scale such as that in Asia.
It is relatively simple to mobilise large amounts of money both from the general public and from governments in an emergency situation.
The only country in the area that has acted upon the risks and prepared itself effectively is, in actual fact, Bangladesh.
A far better coordinated EU – and I am talking here about the Commission and the Member States – could have been of great help at the height of the disaster.
Otherwise, Asia will, as a region, miss out on EUR&#160;150&#160;million in development aid.
In the reconstruction, it is vitally important to take account of the environment if the necessary conditions of life are not to be further eroded and if the risk of further disasters is to be reduced. &#160;&#160; Mr President, natural disasters cannot be prevented, but the political dimension of such an issue can be found in international cooperation in the development of emergency and early-warning systems.
By investing in these we might be able to minimise the number of human casualties.
It is good that EU Foreign Affairs Ministers and Ministers for Development Cooperation are responding quickly, agreeing on EU measures to help people in the crisis area and begin reconstruction.
The Council has listened carefully not only to your House’s suggestions, observations, and comments, but also to its criticisms.
I would like to make it very clear that Europe has been neither inactive nor passive.
There has also been very effective cooperation between Parliament and the Council.
This very morning, in the context of the trialogue, which took only a few minutes, we managed to raise EUR&#160;100 million, that being the first instalment of additional humanitarian aid.
What this shows is that, in cases of urgency, our institutions work marvellously well.
I also commit the Presidency to a continuation of this dialogue with Parliament and to regular exchanges of views with it on the various measures that are decided on in order to address the problems faced by the countries affected by the disaster.
To be sure, this instrument already exists, but its coordination needs to be improved and its means reinforced.
The President of the Commission this morning announced that it would be submitting to the next General Affairs Council proposals for improving this instrument.
Another question touched upon the internal conflicts raging in at least two of the countries affected by the disaster.
No doubt the European Union will be able to involve itself further in helping these countries to find solutions to these conflicts, by which they have already been ravaged for some time, even for many years.
As the President of the Commission underlined, there are a number of proposals to be implemented, some of them in the short term, others in the mid- and long-term.
On the reconstruction side, some EUR 350 million of partially new funds should be made available, and funds already programmed streamlined.
I have noted your concerns about the reprogramming, but I should like to assure you that this improved streamlining of all the available funds is the quickest way to deliver aid and, in many cases, will be necessary, as some projects cannot be carried out in some of the affected areas.
There is a proverb in my country: one who gives fast gives twice.
In this respect, the Commission should obtain the support of the Council and the European Parliament to use the derogations and accelerated procedures in full.
Trust funds with the countries concerned, based either on UN and/or World Bank trust fund formulae, may be a good answer to this concern.
The Commission has taken action in various fields: reinforcing EU coordination capabilities to respond to crises; debt relief for the countries in question; trade measures – one of the questions raised – such as the possibility of accelerating the entry into force of the new scheme for a generalised system of preferences; early warning systems; satellite monitoring and research and development; preparation for disaster management; fisheries; justice and home affairs; health and so on.
This tragic event needs to be seen by all of us as a kind of opportunity and commitment to organise ourselves better and coordinate action in the event of a disaster.
Such events can be addressed only in a global way, at a global level.
By taking common action, the European Union and the United States can constitute a considerable force in the service of our shared values in the world.
The conclusions of the November European Council refer to the responsibility shared by the European Union and the United States in the face of the major challenges such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the peace process in the Middle East, and the eradication of poverty from the world.
I am sure that today’s debate in this House will help us to accomplish this task.
Relations between Europe and America are founded on shared interests and on the promotion of such shared values as freedom, democracy and human rights.
The United States and the European Union share great responsibility for international economic and monetary stability.
It is worth adding that the latest agreement on aircraft construction demonstrates our ability to resolve our differences in a spirit of cooperation and partnership.
If the state of the relationship has been, and remains extremely positive, it is nonetheless true that it must adapt to change on three fronts.
Today, the more important element of choice and political will has been added.
This obviously affects relations between the United States and the rest of the world, including the European Union.
All these factors together means that, of the three major components of the relationship with the United States – NATO, bilateral relations and EU-US relations – it is the third that is growing in importance.
In this context, President Bush’s visit to the European Union on 22&#160;February acquires exceptional significance.
The Presidency intends to take this opportunity to give the relationship fresh momentum.
We are, to be sure, advocating a pragmatic and constructive approach to the future, but it will also be an ambitious one.
It is also important that the EU should put forward its own initiatives in clear terms.
Furthermore, as stated in the European security strategy, Europe must continue to develop its own capacities.
I would add that Mr Poettering, speaking this morning, highlighted the political role that the European Union must play in the quest for the peace that is needed.
The elections at the end of this month will take place under difficult conditions, but we must hope that they will create the conditions needed for a democratic and sovereign Iraq to make a new start.
Turning to Iran, the European Union and the United States, different though their methods and approaches may be, share the same objective, which is to prevent the country developing nuclear weapons.
The outcomes that are emerging will be, or could be, a great success for the European foreign policy and for Europe’s approach.
Finally, there is the disaster in Asia, which we have just been discussing, and which is a clear illustration of the need for good cooperation between the European Union and the United States when such calamities strike.
The acknowledgement of the central role of the United Nations in coordinating aid, something to which many of you referred and which the European Union advocated from the outset, has been an encouraging sign in that the Americans very quickly came to accept it.
There are very many areas in which Washington’s and Brussels’ views largely coincide, including the long-term stabilisation of the Balkans, Afghanistan, the main aspects of the fight against terrorism, which must reconcile the demands of freedom and security, and the relaunch of the Doha round, among others.
Although we must try, by means of some sort of dialogue, to resolve our differences in so far as we are able to, we must also be realistic enough to admit that it will not always be possible.
The best proof of the trans-Atlantic relationship’s maturity would be for us to talk less about this relationship in general than about the tasks we set ourselves towards the end of making the world a safer place and giving its economic, social and ecological development greater balance.
She was due to participate in your debate as originally scheduled, but is now on her way to Washington for meetings with the present and future American Administration, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, future Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the future National Security Adviser, Stephen Hadley.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner will brief the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this visit on 25 January 2005.
Reviewing the state of our relations with the United States will be high on our political agenda over the next few months, and for good reason, since the outcome will have a major influence on developments in the transatlantic relationship over the coming years.
These investments have created, directly or indirectly, some 12 million jobs on both sides of the Atlantic.
But our relations extend well beyond the domain of economics, even if some media reports continue to focus solely on past divisions over Iraq.
That being said, it is clear that the EU-US relationship must adapt to the changing security environment and to changing global priorities.
We also share many common interests, such as the fight against terrorism, promoting solutions to regional conflicts, dealing with third countries, improving transatlantic economic relations, concluding the WTO Doha round, and creating global prosperity.
In many cases, we share the same strategy for implementing those goals.
There are also issues on which our views fundamentally differ, such as how to tackle climate change, and on some aspects of human rights and international law.
The recent human tragedy clearly demonstrated that in times of crisis, only effective international cooperation can prevail.
Turning to one of the most significant areas of dispute between the European Union and the United States, my colleague Mr Mandelson announced yesterday that the EU and the United States have agreed terms for launching negotiations on subsidies affecting the civil aircraft sector.
The objective of these negotiations, which will last three months, is to eliminate subsidies and to establish fair, market-based competition between Boeing and Airbus.
First, we should redouble our efforts to bring peace to the Middle East now that a new Palestinian leadership has been elected.
The Commission will submit a communication on both the framework for relations and economic partnership to Parliament and the Council in the spring, prior to the EU-US summit.
The European Parliament has an important role to play in furthering EU-US ties.
We have been listening carefully to your views within frameworks such as the transatlantic policy network, and we look forward to a general constructive dialogue with you on the future of the transatlantic partnership.
You are an important ally for us in ensuring that this partnership flourishes and grows stronger in the coming years.
We are convinced that further dialogue between you and the US Congress will be essential to cement a good basis for our bilateral relations.
The European Union and the United States have a shared history, common values and the same passion for freedom, and this is because the transatlantic link is written into the genetic code of the European Union.
The Americans will need to take greater account of their European partners’ views than they have done before, but Europe, in turn, will need to be prepared to let its own former differences of opinion become a thing of the past.
I am therefore convinced that in the near future, we will, in this House too, have even more extensive debates on transatlantic relations when the time comes to discuss an own-initiative report on the subject.
The guiding principle of European external policy is multilateralism.
Europe should defend that position, and we must make it an absolute priority to reform the United Nations and make it a truly effective and representative platform.
Together, we have a great responsibility to work for peace, democracy and human rights throughout the world and have a common interest in close and unreserved cooperation in the fight against terrorism and in the interests of global security, disarmament and effective international institutions.
These are important issues for the EU and our citizens, and they are always on the agenda in discussions with the United States.
Relations have also become extremely strained in connection with Iraq, and we can spend forever – as we have in fact done in this House – debating the whys and wherefores of what went wrong.
We must put that behind us and together accept responsibility for the Iraqi people’s being able to enjoy peace, security and democracy.
This is a sphere in which the EU and the United States can together play an important role.
The two summits between the EU and the United States must lead to a new lease of life in our relations.
The EU must also make great efforts, and I am therefore pleased about the constructive tone that exists in this House.
It is odd that we have such an insubstantial agreement with, in particular, the United States – our closest neighbour of all and our most important partner.
From Kyoto to Guantanamo Bay by way of the International Criminal Court, there are problems that we must – and will – raise with our American friends, but we want to be fair too; we want to give President Bush a chance to mend the relationship in his second term of office.
Nor do we want to overlook the fact that, despite all the difficulties we have had and still have, cooperation is proving successful in many areas; whether between federal states, between think tanks or citizens’ initiatives, cooperation is working with extraordinary success in many areas, as well as in business and the economy.
Bush, will visit Europe, where, after a visit to Brussels, he will be received in Mainz by the German Chancellor.
The fact that transatlantic relations are now so good surprises some people, but this is merely down to the fact that the EU’s policies do not differ in any fundamental way from the line followed by the US Government.
The debate on the EU Constitutional Treaty made it apparent that EU Heads of State or Government want the EU, too, to become a global and even military player.
As I see it, a form of transatlantic relations whereby the EU becomes a world power, mostly working together with the USA, but sometimes competing with it, is the stuff of nightmares. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the start of President Bush’s second term in office, what transatlantic relations demand of the European institutions is a sense of realism and enlightened self-interest, which are valuable qualities, and they desperately need them.
Indeed, it is the United States alone that can guarantee some sense of order in our complex and unpredictable world; the United Nations certainly cannot do it.
However, as Chairman of the European Parliament Delegation to Canada, I fully recognise the importance that the Canadian Government attaches to its relationship with the 25 Member States of the European Union.
The new EU-Canada Partnership Agenda was launched under the Irish presidency in Ottawa on 18 March 2004.
It has established a coordination group to ensure the prompt and effective implementation at political level of decisions concerning all elements of the relationship between Canada and the European Union.
We know what our collective challenges are in this regard, so let us go and meet them. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, transatlantic relations are the foundation for the future of both Europe and America, especially given the increasing significance of China, India, or indeed of Asia as a whole, and also of Latin America, in particular Brazil.
Rivalry between Europe and America is a dream come true for the enemies of Europe and the United States, and this is perhaps something that should be borne in mind by the participants in the demonstration in Mainz, referred to by Mr&#160;Pflüger.
I say this as a representative of a country in which the overwhelming majority of citizens were opposed to the Iraq war, but are simultaneously in favour of close ties between Europe and the USA.
Furthermore, eight of the countries that recently joined the EU have traditionally had better and deeper relations with America than parts of the ‘old’ Europe.
Cooperation and a strategic partnership between the USA and Europe are what is needed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our relations with the United States of America are based on three factors; common interests, common values and competition.
Our common interests are based on a desire to maximise security; this includes security in foreign policy, the fight against terrorism and other aspects, such as the major environmental issues, which need to be resolved.
In spite of the disputes which sometimes arise in connection with practical policies, our core values are the same.
There is, however, another aspect to which thought must be given.
The EU has treaties, association agreements and suchlike with nearly every country in the world, and the Americans have NAFTA, APEC, and others, but apart from NATO no contractual agreements exist between the EU and America.
For this reason, we should ensure the eventual creation of a transatlantic marketplace, which would help us in many ways; for example, in organising competition sensibly and in a way which does not violate multilateral frameworks, in jointly protecting our interests and in standing up for our core values.
Victor Hugo once said that he dreamed of a Common Assembly which would unite Europe in peace and maintain relations with the other great democracy on the far side of the Atlantic.
The resolution includes a paragraph on the idea of a transatlantic marketplace, a proposal which has already been put forward in several of Parliament’s resolutions.
It is an extremely simple idea, based on the premise that our economic integration is much deeper than we are aware and than we perceive it to be, as well as on the premise that this economic integration facilitates healthy growth and secures jobs on both sides of the Atlantic, and hence enables us to help the whole world participate in this prosperity.
What we lack, though, is a rational view of this economic and social reality in the political sphere.
This means that we cannot continue with the existing New Transatlantic Agenda on its own, and especially not with the Positive Economic Agenda, which is far too technical and apolitical, as well as being impossible to explain to the public.
Changes must therefore be made to these agendas, and we must develop some kind of plan, idea or strategy to form the basis of this transatlantic marketplace.
What is needed is therefore not a free-trade zone, but a genuine harmonisation of the two economies, which in fact already exists in reality.
One need only look at the current figures and the relevant Commission documents – for example the Quinlan and Hamilton report – to see that economic relations are currently very close.
To give but one example; US investment in the Netherlands in 2003 was at approximately the same level as total investment by US companies in the whole of Asia.
I hope that this example will stir the Members of this House into action, and I hope that we can build on it and start to cooperate properly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following the election of Mahmoud Abbas and the formation of a new Israeli government said to be in favour of withdrawal, there is renewed hope that progress can at last be made in the peace process.
The new Palestinian president must indeed be strongly encouraged in his self-confessed willingness to renounce violence and thereby relaunch dialogue.
Here more than elsewhere, and now more than ever, our expectation of you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that this necessary complementarity of influences be reinforced and put to work for the sake of peace and in order to strengthen trans-Atlantic relations, which is indispensable. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the course of transatlantic relations is characterised by the single imperialist policy of the United States and the European Union against the peoples.
You have together unleashed three wars against the peoples.
The decisions by the summit in Dublin set in motion the replacement of the NATO army in Bosnia by the euro-army, approved the aggressive plan for the Middle East, ratified and legalised the occupation of Iraq, promoted terrorist policy against the peoples and applied new anti-democratic measures, such as biometric data, global personal files and much more.
To close, Mr Bush is coming, but he will have a macabre escort, the hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqi civilians murdered.
The people of Europe will ... &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, leading EU politicians throughout the EU, and also in this House, have made certain statements and expressed certain opinions that underestimate the role played by the United States in the history of Europe.
Such statements and opinions should be regarded as highly irresponsible, because transatlantic cooperation provides us with an opportunity to find common answers to the global threats facing humanity, such as poverty, natural disasters and environmental degradation.
Unfortunately neither the European Union in its present guise nor the super-state outlined in the draft Constitution, with all its bureaucratic red tape, wastefulness and sluggishness, are capable of reacting in an appropriate manner to global challenges of a political or economic nature.
This is undoubtedly largely attributable to the US intervention in Iraq, but there are also other problems, and one that springs to mind is the unacceptable pressure brought to bear by the US administration, and the American President himself, in favour of Turkey being allowed to join the European Union.
Europe and the United States share the same values, democracy, human rights, and the free market economy being among them.
In practice, multilateralism often means that we hide behind bodies such as the United Nations, so that, in practice, little or nothing ends up being done.
The European Union was present in the form of Commissioner Michel who came to take stock of the damage and to share out a few bags of rice in front of the television cameras.
The contrast was harrowing and spoke volumes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I share the view of those, in particular our spokesman, Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, who have said that this issue of transatlantic relations should now be focused on what we have in common rather than on our differences, which we all know and which many speakers have mentioned.
In this context, with the arrival of the President of the United States next month, is it not possible for the Commission, the Council and Parliament to think of three major areas where we could cooperate in the terms we have used in our joint resolution on a Community of action?
A Community of action that will seek to develop a peace initiative in the Middle East; a Community of action that will search for global security in the fight against international terrorism, cooperation in development assistance and in facing the new global challenges of the disasters in the Middle East which the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned.
Last but not least, the Commission will be coming forward with its review of the New Transatlantic Agenda, and we in this House have insisted on many occasions – and once again in the joint resolution – that we should take the opportunity to upgrade this relationship; show that it is visible to the peoples on both sides of the Atlantic, and not exclude, as the new transatlantic agenda does today, the political communities.
The Bush administration’s initial response was to propose the setting up of a coalition of donor countries around the United States, rather, of course, than place its intervention under the authority of the United Nations.
One French essayist summed up this widespread sentiment in these words: ‘The United States is in the process of becoming a problem for the world.
What causes doubts to arise, though, is the Messianic and ideological motivation that the US administration attaches to its intervention in Iraq.
The UN is the sole authority competent to decide in favour of international military intervention, and we must invite the United States to join Europe in committing itself, on the one hand, to multilateralism and respect for international law and, on the other, to reform of the United Nations, particularly as regards the Security Council and the way it is made up. &#160;&#160; It is not only necessary to strengthen transatlantic relations now, but it is also possible.
This relationship must not be based on rivalry of self-interest, but only on common interest and values.
Coequal partnership is needed, but it requires a strong and united Europe capable of action.
We need not deny that we have disagreements and conflicts of interest, but we must realise that we have a common interest in the most important issues, including the war against terrorism, the fight against nuclear proliferation, the Doha process and even the question of changes in climate.
President Bush’s upcoming visit can reaffirm this chance, and we must also do our best not to miss it. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, President&#160;Bush’s approach to the major challenges of international policy in his second term is likely to differ somewhat from the approach he adopted in his first.
This means that his visit to Brussels in February will be all the more important, and, as Mr&#160;Schmit has said, it ought to act as a major impetus towards more open transatlantic relations.
The Constitution is intended to help create a European identity, but there are those in Europe who would like to create this common European identity in opposition to America, by means of cheap anti-Americanism.
Europe and America are linked by common values, as well as by their history, their Christian heritage and their common strategic interests.
It should not be forgotten either when we face new challenges, as our security also depends on coming up with a wise response to these challenges.
I believe there are three key areas in which the United States and Europe should stand shoulder to shoulder in 2005.
The European Union and the United States should cooperate in order to set the process of democracy in motion in countries where this has not yet happened, such as Belarus, and to support pro-democratic trends in countries where the transition to democracy has already begun, such as Ukraine. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we want Europe to be a friend of the United States.
No global problem can be addressed without cooperation between the European Union and the United States.
I therefore want to underline the fact that Mr Bush must find a Europe that is more united, true to its principles and proud of its identity.
That will be the best basis for a more fruitful and constructive transatlantic relationship. &#160;&#160; Mr President, relations between the United States of America and Europe are going through a critical phase.
It is important that transatlantic relations in the future are built on dialogue, not confrontation.
Whilst terrorist attacks might increase the feeling of solidarity between Europeans and Americans, they have also highlighted the difference between their ways of thinking and acting.
The relationship is nevertheless unique and based not only on common interests and values, but also on competition.
The EU and the United States should be involved together in the financing and building of effective early-warning systems in areas prone to risk.
Finally, I wish to say that I appreciate the fact that President Bush will be visiting Brussels right at the start of his second term. &#160;&#160; Many thanks, Mr&#160;President.
This places a clear duty on us to undertake efforts aimed at achieving the best possible relations between the EU and the USA, as we are aware of their particular value.
The aim of such relations is security and stability, both inside and outside the Euro-Atlantic area.
Another way to ensure this security and stability, and perhaps even the most important way, is through support for democracy wherever a chance presents itself of achieving such democracy.
Many examples can be found to demonstrate the importance of these three requirements for the attainment of our goals.
We can, however, celebrate a genuine triumph in Ukraine.
Yet we should not forget that long-term support and long-term cooperation, in particular between the European Union and the USA, are needed to ensure long-term success in Ukraine.
The proposed common foreign policy, provided for in the Constitutional Treaty, may prove to be an important instrument, allowing Europeans to act appropriately.
This policy leads us to hope that our support for a free and democratic Ukraine will have the desired effect.
They are, however, a reliable and stable point of reference for both the USA and the European Union in a new international context.
Despite all the differences between American and European policies – differences which became even more pronounced during President&#160;Bush’s first term – the European Union and the USA are still each other’s closest partners with regard to both political and military matters and economic and cultural issues.
The European Union cannot tolerate unilateral measures by the United States that take no account of the architecture of international relations.
The modern world does not need US domination.
Instead, it needs intelligent cooperation between the European Union and the USA on the fight against terrorism and against the causes of terrorism, and on measures to extend democracy and ensure respect for human rights, respect for international law and the development of a global civil society.
It also needs joint initiatives to promote economic growth in developing countries, sustainable development, the elimination of hunger and the reduction of poverty on Earth.
As I have already said, at the beginning of the twenty-first century the world does not need US domination, but cooperation between the European Union and the USA.
Europe does not need to create an enemy overseas in order to construct its own political identity.
In other words, Europe does not need the new kind of ideology Hanna&#160;Arendt warned against in the 1950s.
The European Union needs to take measures to familiarise modern America and its citizens with the achievements of European integration in recent years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate has rightly highlighted the need actively to rebuild relationships between the USA and Europe.
This is not only because we enjoy the most important global trading relationship, a trading volume of more than EUR 1 billion per day, but also because we share a common interest in finding solutions to major issues such as climate change, terrorism, security and peace in the Middle East.
All this is welcome but these visits have almost all taken place within the context of bilateral relations rather than through visits to EU institutions.
On the day when this Parliament has strongly supported the new EU Constitution, it is worth noting that the US still largely sees its European relations in these bilateral terms.
For instance, I am not aware that he has any intention to address this Parliament.
The idea of setting out a sort of programme, a list of economic and political priorities, strikes me as a useful one, and one on which work needs to be done, particularly in view of President Bush’s visit to Brussels.
Transatlantic dialogue therefore needs to be stepped up at every level, and the reason why I include your House in this is that, although power in America is in the hands of the administration, that is to say, the President, there is also an important centre of power within the Congress.
I therefore think that it is very important to build up inter-parliamentary relations within the context of a renewed dialogue across the Atlantic.
Mr President, listening carefully to the discussion and suggestions I detect a very positive spirit, which encourages me that we can take the debate, and our relations with the United States, still further.
It is true that we have been through a turbulent period, but it is also true that we have now emerged from that period, showing that the transatlantic relationship is still strong and durable.
The EU-US summit of June 2004 clearly demonstrated how much we have in common and the readiness of both sides to focus efforts on the key challenges ahead.
As you know, the relationship today is based on the Transatlantic declaration of 1990 and the new Transatlantic agenda declaration and action plan of 1995.
The recent catastrophe which we all faced is a clear lesson to us all that we cannot do things in any other way.
The transatlantic partnership with Canada has always been an extremely important relationship for us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a simple reason for this.
Canada has already been mentioned several times, but I believe that this report and the resolution should really concentrate on Europe and the USA.
Discussions on debt relief for the countries seriously affected by the disaster in the Indian Ocean are going on in Paris.
Let us acknowledge, though, that the situation of Iraq, which gave rise to this question and this debate, is quite specific and quite exceptional.
The debt relief for the Republic of Iraq, and I would call it substantial debt relief, which was decided on by the Paris Club in November, is without doubt indispensable if the country’s economy is to be rebuilt, and also if a sovereign Iraq with democratic and legitimate institutions is to be reborn.
It would be incomprehensible, not to say absurd, for debt relief to be granted only to a country that had fallen victim to a natural disaster or to conflict.
We see, then, that the relief of the poorest countries’ debts is at the heart of the fight against poverty as well as of support for a policy aimed at eradicating it and of the relaunch of a development process in line with the millennium objectives.
Its efforts at relieving the debts of less developed countries took practical form in the HIPC (High Indebted Poor Countries) initiative, which was proposed by the World Bank and the IMF in 1996 and reinforced in 1999.
This is a coordinated approach aimed at bringing the poorest countries’ debts down to a sustainable level, including not only public, bilateral and multilateral debt, but also trading debt.
Around 60% of the HIPC initiative’s funding was provided by the European Union.
A number of creditors have not yet done anything about relieving the debt.
We want to work closely with the United Kingdom, thus enabling the European Union to develop a coherent and ambitious approach in this area.
Most Member States have committed themselves to cancelling 100% of the bilateral claims.
The Paris Club of creditor governments has developed the so-called Evian approach to deal with non-HIPC countries.
It takes into account debt sustainability considerations, allowing the Paris Club to adopt its response to the financial situation of the debtor country and to make the resolution of crises more orderly, timely and predictable.
It supports the Evian approach of the Paris Club, which looks at the financial situation of each country rather than defining standard terms as has been done in the case of Iraq.
However, the Commission does not want assistance for Iraq, whether through debt relief or other mechanisms, to be given at the expense of the poorest countries.
More recently, the UK and the US have both called for 100% cancellation of multilateral debt for low-income countries, although with different approaches towards its financing.
In a world of limited resources, debt relief granted to middle-income countries should not detract from the amounts available to the neediest ones.
In these cases, some sort of temporary relief of the debt could help mitigate the adverse effects of external shocks on the poverty-reduction strategies of beneficiary countries.
However, it may be an effective way to deliver support and a good way to provide swift assistance after shocks.
Interest charges often weigh down heavily on the budgets of the developing countries, and, in some cases, cripple further development.
Our group is not in favour of general cancellation of all debts, which some in this House advocate.
Debt relief alone does not offer a country new sources of income, neither builds schools or hospitals nor reduces poverty in those countries; on its own, it provides no incentive for further development, the funds available for which will be considerably smaller after debt cancellation.
Where the development of a country is concerned, an important part of the responsibility lies with the country itself.
Then we can be generous, but – as is the case in all forms of development aid – that generosity cannot be unconditional. &#160;&#160; . – The European Union and the international community are preparing to write off some of Iraq’s debts and, at this moment, the debts of the countries ravaged by the tsunami.
Right now, it is imperative that a global, fair and sustainable solution be found to the problem of debt, and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is persuaded that it is the European Union and its Member States that can take the initiative in this.
In many African countries, debt service payments still take up a larger share of the budget than health services.
In Ghana, for example, 11% of government spending goes into repaying debt, while only 9% is spent on health.
If we want debt relief to contribute to achieving the millennium development goals, then we need to acknowledge that debt is unsustainable wherever it prevents a country financing its poverty reduction programmes.
In fact, debt cancellation needs to go hand-in-hand with an increase in aid and the ALDE resolution includes a renewed pledge that Member States give 0.7% of GDP as overseas development assistance.
Secondly, for every euro we now give in development aid to the countries of the South, an average of nearly EUR&#160;1.50 is paid back to the countries of the North in interest payments.
This is another reason why we need a comprehensive debt relief initiative; given that Indonesia, the country we are currently debating, would have to pay back EUR&#160;4&#160;billion this year, it is abundantly clear that this would immediately cancel out any kind of development or disaster aid.
We need an international conference in which participants include creditor countries and debtor countries, as well as civil societies which have been affected and which would act as monitoring bodies, with all participants having equal rights.
I should therefore like to contradict you on one point, Mr&#160;Potočnik; you quoted absolute per capita figures, yet such figures are not the decisive factor.
Every inhabitant of Brandenburg, my home, is in debt to the tune of EUR&#160;16&#160;000, but our national economy is structured in such a way that we can cope with it.
The national economies of the developing countries cannot cope with such debt, however.
In my opinion, therefore, the main issue at stake is not whether we grant a debt deferment, debt reduction, debt moratorium or suchlike, but whether debts are cancelled, as these countries need the money that at present they spend almost exclusively on interest – not even on repayment – to tackle their economic, social and environmental problems.
I am sorry, but if the political will is there, and if we genuinely wish to help these countries, the poorest countries’ debt must be cancelled entirely.
Such an example should really be set for these countries and for the European Union. &#160;&#160; .
Having understood this, the European Union has already earmarked USD one million for debt relief.
The HIPC Initiative encompassed 42 of the world's poorest countries.
The amount of debt to be written off for 26 of these countries will be 50% or USD 25 billion.
A broader spectrum of countries should be given the opportunity of qualifying for debt relief, similar to Iraq.
Debt Relief International should be more closely involved, and a real opportunity to escape from economic stagnation should be provided, moving purposefully towards reaching the Millennium Development Goals. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party, I should like to express my great satisfaction and my appreciation of the European Union, the Member States’ governments, the international agencies, the humanitarian organisations and every individual European citizen for the colossal solidarity that they have shown in recent weeks.
That is an appropriate, necessary and urgent commitment. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to join the previous speaker in thanking the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;Schmit, for having placed our concerns regarding a new debt relief initiative in a broader context from the very start.
It is not only natural disasters which affect countries; it is also the devastating effects of poverty, which is on the rise throughout the world, as well as the fact that the amount spent by many countries on debt servicing is many times greater than that on social expenditure, and the fact that we are a very long way from meeting the Millennium Development Goals agreed on by all UN members.
We are currently all very proud of our unprecedented readiness to make donations and provide assistance.
I should like to know what the Council Presidency’s specific goals in this field are, both working alone and in cooperation with other international partners, as on the basis of your comments my impression is that the driving force on this issue will be the Council, not the Commission. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I believe we must beware of imagining that reducing or cancelling the debt is an end in itself.
Since this reduction in the debt is not an end in itself but a means, we must, I think, have the decency to bear in mind that it is a means made available through the efforts of our countries’ taxpayers and that it must therefore, of course, be made conditional upon the achievement of results.
Our partners, and principally our African partners in NEPAD, have also understood perfectly well that they themselves have to make efforts, particularly in terms of good governance and respect for our common values, to put their countries on the road to development.
We therefore need to have a forward-looking vision and not just appease our consciences by saying: the debt is reduced or cancelled; now let them get on with it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for us, cancelling the poorest countries’ debts is, indeed, an absolute necessity if we wish seriously to tackle North-South inequalities and maldevelopment as much as underdevelopment.
Nor can it involve absolving all those, including leaders of states, who have scandalously feathered their own nests out of disregard for their people and for sound budgetary management at even the most basic level.
Cancelling the debt would also constitute a first stage in reforming our development aid policy in depth.
Indeed, it would be a serious matter if the message being sent out to the international community were that it needs to be struck by a war or a natural disaster causing 200&#160;000 deaths in order to be entitled to solidarity from the West. &#160;&#160; Madam President, there is nothing wrong with cancelling debts, certainly if it involves countries in desperate need, as is at present the case in South East Asia.
Some countries are governed well, and others badly, and we cannot promise all of them that we will write off their debts and solve their problems overnight.
That being said, there does arise the issue of what is to be done for all the other developing countries.
Developing countries are not all alike.
In the first place, we can relieve, or indeed cancel, their debts.
There is the European Union’s support for the initiatives taken within the G8, particularly those of the G8 Presidency at the forthcoming summit in the United Kingdom.
Europe must therefore promote this idea of debt relief or, indeed, cancellation.
It cannot, however, do so indiscriminately as, by proceeding in that way, its action would lose credibility.
Secondly, cancelling or relieving the debt only makes sense if the rich countries increase their development aid.
The European Union has entered into undertakings in this regard, and they should be implemented.
Second, it is important to distinguish between different countries, in particular between the least developed countries and other developing countries.
Lastly, relief for Iraq should not be at the expense of the poorest countries, and a debt moratorium for countries hit by the tsunami would be appropriate.
The Commission will closely follow the issue of the external debt of developing countries, in particular the least-developed ones.
There also remains much to do as regards considering debt relief for the countries of Southeast Asia hit by the earthquake and tsunami.
Debt relief can indeed be a useful tool in that quest, but by no means can it offer a full response.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time, with questions to the Council (B6-0001/2005).
On 26&#160;October 2004, the Council adopted a regulation creating this agency, which will begin its activities on 1&#160;May 2005.
In 2002, the Council also adopted an overall plan for combating illegal immigration and human trafficking in the European Union, as well as a plan for integrated management of the external borders of the Member States of the European Union.
These two centres have conducted operations aimed at combating illegal immigration by sea.
The Council would also like to draw the honourable Member’s attention to the programme of measures, adopted on 27&#160;November 2003, designed to combat illegal immigration by sea in the Member States of the European Union.
This programme comprises a series of measures designed to perfect coordinated and effective maritime border management as quickly as possible.
It also pointed out how important it was to strengthen international relations with third countries of origin or transit of illegal flows of immigrants.
On 2&#160;December 2004, the Council adopted conclusions evaluating the progress made with regard to the implementation of the programme of measures to combat illegal immigration by sea in the EU Member States.
Although the Council noted that progress had been made in implementing this programme, it also concluded that there was a need for further progress in terms of the operational and legislative measures.
What is more, the Council confirmed that it was necessary to strengthen cooperation with third countries by drawing upon the experience acquired by the different Member States.
I believe we must pursue the perhaps slightly more distant objective of setting up European coastguards.
I would also, however, draw attention to the fact that, even if the coastguards were very efficient, the problem would remain.
I think it is necessary to adopt a broader approach entailing, in particular, vigorous dialogue and close cooperation with third countries, as well as better and more effective control in the countries of transit and origin.
It is also, in my opinion, necessary, within the framework of the financial perspectives, to provide for the financial resources necessary for implementing a policy along these lines with a view to bringing European solidarity into play at this level.
The two documents describe in detail the Council’s opinion on the possible future development of European research policy.
In its September conclusions, the Council also expressed its point of view regarding the Commission’s reply to the high level group of experts chaired by Professor Marimon, responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the instruments used to implement the Sixth Framework Programme.
In these same conclusions, the Council emphasises that it is important to strengthen technological research and development at European level as an indispensable complement to the efforts made at national level, and it draws particular attention to the need to exercise a powerful leverage effect on private investment in research – an action the responsibility for which falls in large part to the Member States.
The Council also emphasises the important role played by SMEs in terms of increasing the EU’s capacity for innovation and research and, in this context, recommends that simpler and less bureaucratic methods be applied for implementing the next framework programme.
As the honourable Member no doubt knows, Europe’s lack of sufficient investment in scientific and technological development compared with the United States goes back many years, but the gap has widened since the middle of the 1990s.
It is only since the adoption of the Lisbon Strategy, in 2000, and of the 3% investment objective, set in Barcelona in 2002, that sustained efforts, commensurate with the challenge to be faced, have been made.
It should also be remembered that the European Union is beginning to take important measures to develop TRD activities in the fields of security policy and space policy.
European research and development policy is a crucial element of the Lisbon Strategy, the importance of which has been emphasised, in particular, by the former Dutch Prime Minister, Wim Kok, in his report entitled ‘Facing the Challenge’, and which was also emphasised very explicitly this morning by the President of the European Council and by the President of the Commission.
The form and scope of the next framework programme will, however, also depend upon the available funds which, as the honourable Member will appreciate, will depend in the first place upon the results of the discussions under way concerning the financial perspectives. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the President-in-Office for an extremely comprehensive reply to my question.
He referred to the Kok report, as I do in my question, but the report further recommended – as he will probably be aware – establishing a European research council, rather on the lines of the National Science Foundation in America.
This factor must be taken into account when discussing the preparation of the Seventh Framework Plan for research and the increase in funds, which I hope will be substantial, within the framework of the next financial perspectives.
Although religious freedom is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, as indicated by the European Commission in its 2004 Regular Report, non-Muslim religious communities, including the Ecumenical Patriarchate, continue, however, to encounter obstacles and are subject to a bureaucratic regime.
The Turkish authorities have recently indicated that they would invite the Commission to formulate its observations on this bill, something which constitutes a very positive development.
The European Council invited the Commission to present the Council with a proposal relating to a framework for negotiations with Turkey on the basis of the factors listed in the Presidency’s conclusions adopted at the end of its meeting.
The Council was then invited to reach an agreement on this framework with a view to opening the negotiations on 3&#160;October 2005 in accordance with the procedures indicated in the European Council’s conclusions.
The effective and overall implementation of the process of political reforms will continue to be carefully monitored by the Commission.
How does the Council intend to proceed with regard to the adoption of the common position on the proposal for a directive on computer-implemented inventions, in the light of the fact that the Polish Government has stated that it is unable to support the current proposal, the new weighting of votes introduced by the Treaty of Nice is now in force and therefore without Poland's agreement the necessary majority in favour of adoption of the common position on the basis of the political agreement reached by the Council on 18 May is no longer in place, and in the light of the fact that the Netherlands Parliament is calling for the approval given for the common position to be withdrawn and of the fact that all four political groups in the German Bundestag are calling, in an inter-party motion for a resolution, for a number of amendments to be made to the text of the directive.
Regarding the adoption of its common position, the Council would inform the honourable Member that this has been postponed to a later date at the request of a Member State, and this in order to give the latter more time to prepare a statement that will appear in the minutes of one of the forthcoming sittings of the Council. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in reply to your comments I would merely like to say that the proposal we currently have on the table does not take sufficient account of Parliament’s resolution.
A number of questions – informal ones, admittedly – were put to me on this subject this morning, scarcely a few hours ago.
There is no legal obstacle to the accession of a new Member State’s entailing the addition of more than one new official language.
On 23&#160;November&#160;2004, Ireland presented the Council with a proposal aimed at modifying Regulation No 1/58 with a view to adding the Irish language, which is one of the 21 languages referred to in paragraph 1, to the 20 official languages referred to in paragraph 2.
On 13&#160;December&#160;2004, the Spanish Government presented the Council with a request aimed at granting official recognition in the EU to the following languages: ‘Basque, Galician and the language known as Catalan in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia and in the Balearic Islands and known as Valencian in the Valencian Community’.
I cannot judge in advance the result to be arrived at by the Council.
I refer to the statement annexed to the text of the Constitution, which offers, in a way, a pragmatic approach to the problem.
In the interim, subject to the final settlement of this at Community level, I wonder whether the presidency would encourage Member States collectively to print key Community documents, such as the Constitution, and key legislative texts in all the minority languages of their Member State.
This document offers a general survey of the actions carried out in 2004 by the European Union and its Member States, particularly in the areas of technical assistance, political instruments for crisis management, and cooperation with the UN, NGOs and other international organisations.
Its objective is to reconcile technical assistance and political action by revealing deficiencies and the opportunities for increased cooperation regarding this issue.
For the time being, such action is intended for a number of countries in which children are particularly affected by armed conflicts: Burundi, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Liberia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Afghanistan, Burma and Nepal. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office for the clarity of his answer in listing the countries concerned.
I urge the Council not to treat this as a marginal issue, but to maintain it at the top of development issues, as well as foreign affairs issues, during the Luxembourg presidency.
There is, however, nothing I can do about the fact that they have to go to another meeting, and hence do not have any extra time.
We will take this very seriously, and will request that all Members keep to their speaking times and do not allow debates to overrun.
It should therefore have been possible for you to arrive here in time.
