Presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report - 2006 (debate) The first item is the presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report for 2006.
My first point concerns the reliability of the final annual accounts for 2006.
The consolidated financial statements for the 2006 financial year provide a true picture of the assets and liabilities and the financial position of the Communities and the results of their operations in that year with the exception of an overstating, in the statement of assets and liabilities, of accounts payable and of the amount of pre-financing.
The Court noted that the Commission has made considerable efforts to eliminate defects in the system of risk management for EU finances.
In these areas payments to final beneficiaries are still affected by material error rates, albeit at varying levels.
The Court's observations on the areas of the budget that are subject to shared management are as follows: in the realm of agriculture, to which a budget of EUR 49.8 billion was allocated in 2006, the Court noted a sharp decline in the estimated overall error rate, although the rate is still slightly above the materiality threshold.
With regard to structural measures, to which a total of EUR 32.4 billion was allocated in 2006, the situation prevailing in previous years has not changed.
In fact, only six Member States responded to last November's request from the Commission for a report on the recovery of irregular payments.
In its single-audit model, the Court recommended the establishment of an efficient framework for all internal control systems relating to EU funds.
The Court takes the view that the national declarations and the national auditing efforts could help to raise awareness in the Member States of the importance of internal control of EU funds.
The basic prerequisite for effective management of budgetary funds is the existence of reliable internal control systems at every administrative level in all Member States and recipient countries.
Comparing this with previous years, the Commission is pleased that in total the Court has now given its green light to over 40% of total payments, compared to roughly a third last year and only 6% two years ago.
The Court said that our 2006 accounts are true and fair in all material respects, except for certain small overstatements, comprising 0.13% of operating expenditure.
The Court recognises that the Commission has made considerable efforts to address the weaknesses in the management of the risks to EU funds.
The Court goes on to say that it is reasonably confident that at least 12% of structural and cohesion fund payments in 2006 should not have been reimbursed.
The Commission's own synthesis report for 2006 stated that it did not have confidence in the systems for managing Structural Funds in parts of Italy, Latvia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
At the Ecofin meeting earlier this month, I also called on Member States to fulfil their responsibility to provide annual summaries of audit and declarations by 15 February 2008.
The 2006 discharge hearing that the Committee on Budgetary Control has organised for 18 December 2007 for the main Structural Fund Commissioners will be attended by representatives of the national budgetary control committees.
We welcome such discussions and, as honourable Members will be aware, this Commission has worked hard to achieve full transparency on the beneficiaries of EU funds, which it believes is leading to better-informed policy discussions, such as the common agricultural policy health checks launched by my colleague, Marian Fischer Boel, earlier this month.
Regrettably, in some media reports, this golf club issue has entirely overshadowed the Court's statement that agriculture is an area in which the Commission and the Member States have made most progress, and for which the Court came very close to giving an overall green light.
The second issue is that 12% of Structural Funds, according to the Court, should not have been reimbursed.
My colleagues, Commissioners Hübner and Špidla, will elaborate further in their Committee on Budgetary Control hearings next month.
One thing is clear: it is now obligatory, under the new Financial Regulation, for Member States to submit their summary national management declarations.
That is scandalous, it deserves a headline: only six Member States are telling us what they are doing about recovering funds which they have misused.
The Court is of the opinion that control systems in the Member States are generally ineffective or moderately effective.
I am also very disappointed that the internal control system within the Commission is still not all it should be, seven years after the reform.
As regards the Union's audit arrangements, I am not going to repeat what I said in Luxembourg on 18 October 2007.
On the matter of improvements - Mr Kallas has made the point already - the Commission can of course be proud, because three years ago only 6% of expenditure was deemed to have been legal.
To Parliament this means that the responsibility lies not with the Commission as a collegiate body, but that commissioners are individually responsible for their budgets.
Admittedly, that is only 1% of the gross national product of the 27 Member States, but it is still a tidy sum.
Now for the thirteenth time in a row we see that the Court of Auditors refuses to guarantee the total legality and regularity of this expenditure.
It is a serious warning to the Commission but also to the Member State governments that they need to do something.
Agriculture, still the most important budget heading, at about EUR 50 billion.
The problems were not just about golf clubs, Commissioner Kallas.
The things that are happening here - and let me reiterate my thanks to the Court of Auditors for putting their finger on them - lead to a despotic system and to this body here that cannot seriously be described as a parliament.
I would like to make three points.
Nevertheless, we in the European Parliament, as always, have three possibilities.
There are also the so-called 'RALs' or restes à liquider, which amount to EUR 130 billion.
My third and final point is that the discharge procedure provides an easy target for anti-EU propaganda, as we have just witnessed, and also that there is indeed some bad news in this report, which is that not everything is in order and that there is room for improvement.
I would therefore call for a critical, but constructive, debate on the discharge procedure with the distant hope of there being a positive DAS in 2009. (DA) Mr President, I would also like to begin by thanking the Court of Auditors for an excellent report and a good presentation here today.
It is clear that it is an incredibly useful instrument in our work to ensure that EU citizens' money is managed well and in a legitimate and appropriate manner.
Unfortunately, it indicates that there is no control over taxpayers' money, and unfortunately it indicates that here in Parliament, together with the Commission and the Member States, we have a major task ahead of us.
However, unfortunately there are also some very, very serious criticisms, and consequently some very serious arguments against approving the accounts for 2006.
In addition, we must say that there is also a lack of control in connection with foreign policy concerning the EUR 1 billion that is being used jointly with other institutions in international trust funds.
We need the information it provides, but we regret that many areas of activity have seen no improvement for years, because these findings bring the European Union into disrepute.
The Commission and the Member States manage taxpayers' money badly and illegally.
Let me take this opportunity in passing to remind the Commission of its answer to my written question of 2 August on this matter.
May I also ask the Council to ensure that increases in operational expenditure on the common foreign and security policy are not slipped in under the heading of administrative expenditure. (PT) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the Court of Auditors, especially its president, Hubert Weber, who is coming to the end of his term of office and with whom we, the Socialists in the Committee on Budgetary Control, have enjoyed excellent cooperation.
Although we already asked for detailed figures and clarifications last year, the Commission continues to flout the Financial Regulation and has still not provided us with a report on how European money is being spent in many Middle Eastern countries.
This is unacceptable and I would like to say, particularly to Vice-President Kallas, that he cannot simply turn his back on this, and that in the discharge procedure we are going to closely scrutinise everything in this budget, including all the organisations which are not using funds in a transparent way. (PL) Mr President, the auditing and control of EU funds in the Member States is a basic requisite for efficient and transparent management of Community budget resources.
We have not yet reached the bounds of the possible, for the more comprehensible your reports are, the more they help us and the more they help the Commission to act on all your findings.
You therefore have the support of this Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, Commissioner Kallas, for the structural-fund guidelines.
I wish to thank the Court of Auditors for enabling us to carry forward the parliamentary budget for 2006 as far as the Members' assistance allowance is concerned.
Lastly, a key point of the European financial control system continues to be the issue of recoveries.
Mr President, firstly I want to thank Mr Weber and the Court of Auditors for the report they have produced this year, which I have read with great interest.
It is to the great credit of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control that they recognised this weakness and forced the inclusion of Article 44 of the Interinstitutional Agreement in 2006.
President of the Court of Auditors. - (DE) Mr President, allow me first of all to offer my sincere thanks for the many kind words that have been spoken about the Court of Auditors, its report and its presentation.
That has given rise to certain phenomena.
We have a total of 700 cases, and so I cannot say at the present time whether all of these cases are legally relevant, for each of them will have to be examined on its merits.
It goes without saying that, if the support received by a golf club also covered the area of the golf course itself, such a situation would certainly not be lawful.
The main issue, which is that of better governance of the Structural Funds, will be discussed in detail during the hearings in the Committee on Budgetary Control on 18 December.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I welcome the European Court of Auditors' 2006 Annual Report as it identifies welcome improvements, particularly in relation to agricultural spending.
Where errors are identified these mainly relate to weaknesses in internal control systems both in the Member States and in the Commission.
