Results of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008) (debate) The next item is the debate on the European Council report and Commission statement - Results of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008).
President-in-Office. - (SL) Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen.
Secondly, we confirmed the basic principles and schedule for adoption of the energy and climate change package.
The European Union's public finance deficit has fallen by more than half since 2005.
Economic growth reached almost 3% in 2007.
The labour market is offering 6.5 million more jobs than two years ago.
At the launch of the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, or the second Lisbon cycle, the European Council stressed that in the period between 2008 and 2010 we must direct all our efforts primarily towards consistent implementation of the reforms.
The priority areas will remain the same: knowledge and innovation, stimulation of entrepreneurial potential, modernisation of the labour markets, and climate change and energy.
For that reason the European Council introduced the 'fifth freedom' in the field of knowledge and innovation.
The establishment of the new European Institute of Innovation and Technology, confirmed two weeks ago by the European Parliament, also offers new opportunities for the utilisation of Europe's research and development potential.
The social dimension of the Lisbon Strategy was strongly stressed at this session of the European Council.
The adopted conclusions reflect the positions of the European Parliament and European social partners.
Knowledge is also of crucial importance when dealing with climate change.
Only with the help of new technologies will we achieve the ambitious targets we adopted at last year's spring session of the European Council.
As confirmed by our social partners at the tripartite summit held at the fringes of the European Council session, climate change brings opportunities for all, that is to say both companies and employees.
The ecoindustry alone is growing by 5% a year and today employs 3 400 000 people.
Within the energy and climate package we have reached an agreement on the basic principles and the schedule.
It is important that less than two months after the package was published on 23 January, we have reached an accord on two key elements for furthering the debate on basic principles and schedule.
Only if we adopt the package within the deadline will we justify the expectations of all European citizens and give a positive sign to our partners in the world, especially in the light of the negotiations on the overall post-Kyoto agreement next year in Copenhagen.
I would like to underline this last point in particular.
The European Council has confirmed three fundamental principles which will guide us in the sharing of tasks and targets among the Member States.
I was pleased to note that the Member States no longer regard this process as a sharing of burdens, but as a new opportunity for development.
The European Council also faced the possibility that, in the event of failure of the international negotiations, it should assist the energy-intensive sectors in the European Union, because their relocation to countries with lower environmental standards would risk losing jobs in the European Union, at the same time increasing greenhouse gases in general.
The state asset funds play a positive role in securing capital and liquidity, even in these uncertain times.
Because the Slovenian Presidency is striving for a balanced approach to all the European Union's neighbours, we would like to point out the eastern dimension of European policies towards our neighbours, which must be strengthened in parallel with the Mediterranean dimension.
We expect the June session of the European Council to debate these issues in detail on the basis of the proposal put forward by our Polish colleagues.
I would like to congratulate the Slovenian Presidency and Prime Minister Janša for the very competent way in which he chaired this European Council.
And we must demonstrate that the European Union is the right way to bring in the changes that are needed.
As has become the tradition at the Spring meeting, the European Council reviewed the economic situation in Europe.
The message from the European Council has been clear: all authorities in the European Union stand ready to take regulatory and supervisory action if necessary.
The European Council also reaffirmed its commitment to sustained reform efforts through the full implementation of the revised Lisbon strategy.
We must build on the recent, very positive agreement between social partners and see those principles translated into results across the European Union Member States.
The European Council also set out a clear road map and gave new impetus to ongoing legislative work.
I particularly want to mention, as Prime Minister Janša just did, the two key deadlines set by the European Council, on the internal market in energy and on the climate change and renewable energy package.
They are about bringing in essential changes as quickly as possible, so that the European Union can lead the world in this very important dossier.
On the energy internal market package, we need to reach an agreement to show that institutions are able to deliver in the interests of citizens, consumers and businesses, and here we committed to trying to reach political agreement by June 2008.
On the climate and renewables package, political agreement by the end of this year will be the clearest possible sign to our international partners - a sign that Europe is serious about its commitments.
This would enable adoption of the proposals within Parliament's legislative term early in 2009.
This is vital as we enter the final straight towards an international agreement on climate change in Copenhagen next year.
This international agreement is our top priority, and is the single best way of both cutting global emissions and ensuring that our energy-intensive industries will have the level playing field they need.
I hope that you will be able to join the Council in the deadlines so that we can give credibility to our negotiating position at global level.
I would like to give you a flavour of three areas on which we will be working to come forward with proposals before the summer.
First, the renewal of our social agenda.
Our objective is to pave the way towards a European wide consensus on a social vision for the 21st century: a social vision which responds to new challenges, such as globalisation and demographic change; a vision which is based on the principle of providing 'life chances' to everyone through opportunities, access and solidarity; a vision looking at social challenges for society as a whole, addressing issues such as youth, education, migration, ageing as well as intercultural dialogue; a vision that, of course, takes more specifically into consideration the problems of poverty that we are still facing in our Europe.
The Commission strongly supports the commitment to give fresh impetus to our Mediterranean policy.
I am glad that there is now a consensus that the project will move ahead with all 27 Member States, taking the Barcelona Process one step further.
Now the EU partnership needs to deliver, and make 2008 a landmark year for Europe.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the European Council, Mr President of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the recent European Council was largely devoted to defining the new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy and took place in a very difficult international economic and financial context.
The indicators within the Union are, however, somewhat encouraging: more jobs, a growth rate of 2.9% in 2007 and falling budget deficits.
This progress is above all the fruit of the business restructuring efforts of course, but it is also the result of a policy of reform and sound administration on the part of most of the Member States.
The wind blowing from the other side of the Atlantic does not augur well and the growth forecasts for 2008 are lower than we might have hoped.
There is a great temptation - and our political opponents give in to it much too often - to spend money that we do not have, to make the people of Europe believe that everything can continue as before.
Finally, I welcome the agreement on the Union for the Mediterranean proposed by France to the Council on the basis that the Barcelona process has not produced the desired results.
We therefore hope that this project will mark a turning point in our relations with the Mediterranean countries, which must become more concrete, more effective and, above all, more political, with a view to achieving real peace in the Middle East.
President Barroso, you have said that as one of its conclusions, the Council states that we in the European Union must be ready to take regulatory and supervisory action if necessary in response to this development in the international financial markets.
The fifth freedom, for example, Prime Minister Janša, is part of social policy.
For that reason, access to knowledge also means access to social justice.
That is why, from our perspective - from the Socialist Group's perspective - the Council has once again fallen short of our expectations in relation to the social dimension of Europe.
There is not a single document from the European Parliament on this list, not even the document we produced about the Lisbon Strategy.
This is a lamentable state of affairs, in my Group's view, because it shows that you are not taking the social dimension, the European Parliament itself and the opinion of this House sufficiently seriously. (Applause) Some progress has been made: that was what my colleagues said when we asked them during our Group debate what they thought of climate policy.
Both aspects are essential.
Let me make a final comment about the Mediterranean Union, which you will now find mentioned on page 19 of the Conclusions, and that itself is another message from the Council.
We are pleased that there is now clarity on this issue, and you are right in what you have been saying about neighbourhood policy in the Mediterranean.
Prime Minister Janša has rightly pointed out that partnership policy here must entail partnership policy elsewhere.
The fact is that anything that is decided within the framework of the Mediterranean Union requires funding from the European Parliament, which is why it is extremely important that the Conclusions should state that the European Parliament will be fully involved in the future structures of the Mediterranean Union.
We can already see signs of Member States looking for ways to cut corners and costs on last year's political commitments, even though the Stern report of 2006 warned that the costs of action now will be far less than the costs of inaction later.
An early draft of the Council conclusions committed Member States to a 10% reduction in energy use in government buildings and car fleets, yet now reads simply as 'substantial progress'.
EU Member States remain - with one or two honourable exceptions - well short of their commitment to spend 3% of their GDP on R&amp;D.
Now we talk of a fifth freedom for knowledge and innovation, but we should not forget that we have not yet managed to complete the original four freedoms, especially in the area of free movement of labour and services across the whole of the EU.
Finally, support for SMEs is rightly identified as key to economic growth and innovation.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the Commission President for their contributions today.
Today's headline in one of the newspapers is about Jaguar and Land Rover being taken over by an Indian company as an example of how the economic power has shifted from the West to the East.
We must find a way to ensure that we not only capture that wealth and those funds but we guarantee that they return dividends into our own economies by creating greater economic growth and by creating more jobs.
When we speak about innovation and technology, it is important to remember that 73% of the workforce in the European Union who will be working in 2017 are already in place.
But only 10% of the technology that we will be using in 2017 is in existence today.
So the requirement to invest further in educating our people, upskilling them, giving them new training and new knowledge to deal with the new economies is vitally important.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, during the course of the debate, I had the impression that we were talking about two quite different events.
You may recall that shortly before the Council, Javier Solana unveiled his climate scenario from a security perspective.
Let us be under no illusion: if we make exemption rules for European industry in emissions trading the focal point of the Council at this time, then we must assume from the outset that the Council has failed.
Let me say this very clearly on behalf of my Group.
We would rather be protecting at our external borders a European industry that is sustainable, rather than bowing to pressure, at this crucial juncture in the climate process, from the steel and automobile industries and other lobbyists who, as we see from a recent report, are already exerting direct and, indeed, excessive influence on decisions in Brussels.
There is no unity on Kosovo or on the issue of energy security: the Germans are conducting their own business with Russia's Gasprom, and the Italians and Hungarians are also doing business on their own.
Instead of saying 'we have created jobs', you should say that those jobs are badly paid, with flexible employment terms, and that 20 million workers in the European Union are poor.
Instead of seeing how they can make their targets more ambitious and more binding when they go to Copenhagen, the Commission and the Council are trying to exempt large sectors of industry and the economy.
On 23 January this came about in concrete form through legislative proposals, which were warmly welcomed by this Parliament.
I am convinced that in order for it to be effective, we must ensure that a constructive agreement is reached between the Council and Parliament before Potsdam, and we must therefore avoid procedures that would render an agreement at first reading impossible.
The Lisbon Strategy is being energetically implemented as a result of the last spring summit.
Mr President, the Presidency conclusions from the European Council contain all the usual clichés about social dimensions and SMEs and totally fail to address the main problems of European economies, which are that Europe is over-taxed and over-regulated and therefore unable to face the challenges of global competitiveness.
Despite all the promises that were made to European citizens, we have decided to ratify this Treaty in most Member States without referendums.
I am of the view that we have placed too much emphasis on renewable energy sources as an objective rather than as a means to an end, because I am absolutely certain that renewables are not the sole solution.
We have already recognised - through the principle of burden-sharing - that different Member States have very different energy situations, so why not restrict ourselves to setting that goal and allowing Member States to decide for themselves how to reach it?
As I recall, when Thomas Ilves visited Parliament in Strasbourg, he pointed out that Russia has a neighbourhood policy and an external energy policy.
The second point, which has already been touched upon by Martin Schulz, relates to the issue of the Mediterranean Union and the Black Sea Union.
In common with Martin Schulz and the rest of my Group, I am a strong supporter of the Mediterranean Union as a 'forced' Barcelona union or Barcelona process.
However, I would have liked to see the Commission present some finished proposals and make it clear from the outset that a union between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries must and will act, and that the heart of this union, in both administrative and political terms, is the European Union.
Our Group will therefore be presenting a set of proposals in due course.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Presidency on the outcome of the spring summit and the fact that the details of the new Lisbon discussions are based on truly sustainable economic growth, which I think is absolutely necessary.
What we have to face now is the difficulties on the financial markets.
We have to face the problems with climate change.
Therefore, we also have to be tough on climate issues, because that promotes innovation, not only a better environment.
Ms Ek, it is remarkable to see your book of knowledge here in the Chamber. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the top 500 listed companies in the world, the European ones are distinctive for being behind the times, unlike those in the US and emerging countries.
What was really needed was a break with these policies so that the countries with weaker economies can be supported and so that public investment can be increased in order to improve and extend those public services that are essential in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
It is therefore absolutely imperative that these policies are changed so that we can prevent their consequences in the European Union, avoid worsening the social situation and respond to the concerns of the population.
Mr President, this is one of my last speeches in the European Parliament.
I have decided to leave by 9 May and deliver the seat to my successor, Minister Hanne Dahl, to bring a change in sex and generation for the Danish June Movement.
The Commission's 3 000 secret working groups can be downloaded, for instance from my website, thanks to Commission President Barroso.
Elected Members of this Parliament and the national parliaments cannot follow the legislative process in the Council.
We urgently need a review of our legislative process.
Dear colleagues, I hope you will continue the battles from the inside of this Parliament. (SK) Thank you, Mr President.
Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the outcome of the European Council Spring Summit where the focus was on progress on the Lisbon Strategy and on launching the new cycle of the renewed Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs (2008-2010).
Since each Member knows which point of the Strategy is crucial for his/her Member State, I too have chosen from among the conclusions presented the one that is, in my opinion, important for Slovakia at present: investing in knowledge and innovation.
I believe that this will enhance the quality and credibility of our universities and that Slovakia, too, will help, within the framework of globalisation, to enhance the prestige of the European Union.
On the day the summit produced its results, I was asked by a schoolgirl why I had any confidence in these results, given that they were developed and adopted by the very people who are failing to meet the Kyoto targets and implement the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in full.
Mr President, I am going to make my remarks on the climate change package.
The PSE Group gives broad support to the conclusions on climate change.
You are right in picking this out as extremely important.
The third point is about the emissions trading scheme.
That would be some achievement. (PL) Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity provided by this debate to draw attention to just two issues linked to the so-called climate package.
Firstly, the burden of combating climate change has been distributed very unfairly within the European Union.
The CO2 emission limits were shared between individual Member States without taking sufficient account of how far some of the latter lagged behind in terms of development.
As long as we think that the problems will blow over of their own accord, however, as long as we say nothing, then I fear that a large number of unpleasant surprises await us. (DE) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, sometimes subjects which appear to be quite unrelated are in fact inextricably linked.
When we talk about climate change, we talk about migration, and when we talk about migration, we also talk about the Mediterranean Union.
I view the Mediterranean Union as a key issue and I believe it is important to bring more pressure to bear here, in the interests of security and economic development in these regions.
It is in our own interest to forge a more effective and more intensive policy towards the Mediterranean.
Similarly, however, we should strengthen our neighbourhood policy - which after all is the basis for all these policies - towards our Eastern European neighbours.
We must find ways of offering these countries in the Mediterranean and Eastern Europe - especially if, like Ukraine, they have a prospect of joining the European Union - the opportunity to complete the domestic developments that are important for these countries.
However, this policy is a responsibility that is incumbent on the European Union as a whole.
Just as Germany must take on responsibility for Morocco in the Mediterranean region, so too must Spain take on responsibility for Ukraine.
In relation to the European Council's resolution on the core topics of the Lisbon Strategy, on economic and social policy, I have asked myself how this text can take us forward, how what it says will make any difference tomorrow compared with previous years and whether it responds appropriately to the economic situation that we have identified.
I am happy about this clear progress and I therefore also support you as a member of the Dutch delegation when it comes to unbundling, the separation of policy and implementation between energy networks and producers.
The latest Council, which dealt with issues as important as the Lisbon Strategy, economic growth, employment, the state of public finances and combating climate change, provided confirmation of this ability.
The fight against climate change, however, will be much cheaper than anticipated.
Mr President, like others, I welcome the opportunity to support the summit conclusions, particularly on the climate change package.
I note the ambitious timetable, and I assure you we will do everything possible on our side here in Parliament to meet that timetable, because we are very conscious of the need - which is externally imposed on us, but nonetheless very welcome - the need, before Poznań and, particularly, before Copenhagen, to have a very clear EU position on the emissions trading system, as we are now calling it.
I have the responsibility to be the rapporteur for the European Parliament on this most important part of the package.
I hope I will live up to the trust placed in me, and I look forward to working with rapporteurs across all the political groups to get an agreed position as soon as possible.
We do not want any delay in this decision, because it will result in lack of investment in these areas or investment being put on hold and likely to migrate to other regions.
I would like to speak on two topics: climate change, and research and development.
The objectives, the road maps and the various policies set out in this regard by the European Union institutions are good and adequate, I believe, and the goals are as ambitious as they need to be.
The will to implement these goals on the part of the Member States is variable, and in many cases there is disappointingly little will to do so.
I would like to call to your attention the European Environment Agency's recent report stating that carbon dioxide emissions in Europe have not decreased since 2000, but have increased.
In practical terms, the eastern half of Europe is doing nothing.
I support it, even knowing that it is a major step for our economy and will cost EUR 60 billion per year.
Fourthly, give a strong political signal for European industry to start with co-financing those technologies to take responsibility for them.
Additionally, in future we can also offer our technologies to third countries, to develop emerging economies and - in reality, not only theoretically - to save our planet.
Finally, I would like to add that I believe in our priorities - energy, fighting climate change, the Lisbon Strategy - but we need some EU money for our priorities. (SK) Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak in this debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must prevent this poor decision and adopt a positive approach instead: let us do away with the 10% target.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who offered their comments on the conclusions of the last session of the European Council.
I think it would be wrong to respond to the current challenges in the financial markets and the global economy in general by saying that we should abandon or temporarily interrupt the reforms.
I am very pleased with this support for the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy.
As regards social policy in the European Council's conclusions, I should say that I have been personally involved in the work of the European Council for four years now and we have never before spoken so much about the social dimension of the Lisbon Policy.
The appropriate social policy can be built only on the basis of real economic growth, which we will achieve through the Lisbon reforms.
I would also like to add that the social policy has been included in numerous other projects.
Together with the European Parliament we are working on declaring 2010 as the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
This would give greater importance to some of the conclusions relating to social policy that were reached at this session of the European Council.
Regarding climate change and some of the sceptical comments made about the conclusions relating to it, I must say that this session of the European Council did not change any of the commitments undertaken last year, so it could not be said that it was less ambitious.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the only successful fight against climate change is a global one.
These proportions are therefore clear and the key target is not just to reduce emissions from the European Union, but to reach a global agreement - without that we will achieve nothing.
The European Union committed itself to these greater changes last year, and this year we have planned a way of achieving them.
I think the fears that we may have made a retrograde step when we expressed concern about energy-intensive industries moving from Europe to environments with lower standards are unfounded.
China, which will quite soon overtake Europe in greenhouse gas emissions, has also made some positive signs lately.
As regards the decisions and conclusions of the European Council and their effect on European citizens, I think there are few conclusions which will have such a great and long-term effect on the individual as these.
If we want to be successful, we must change our habits and adjust our way of life.
This is very demanding, but circumstances require it.
What some of you pointed out as a problem was also emphasised at the session of the European Council.
I think the European Council paid full attention to the concerns and positions expressed by the European Parliament in the matter of the Mediterranean Union.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I think the debate, generally speaking, has shown support for the conclusions of the European Council.
Let me say very frankly that I think we should not underestimate the ambition that was just reiterated regarding climate change and renewables and, generally speaking, our energy policy.
Let us not forget that we are speaking of a common policy for 27 different Member States with different energy mixes, different priorities, sometimes different concerns when it comes to security of supply, also - let us be even more frank about this - very often with different levels of awareness of the problems of climate change and environmental commitment.
We do not do ourselves a favour in undervaluing what was achieved a year ago under the German Presidency in the European Council and what has now been confirmed with more precise targets in the European Council under the Slovene Presidency.
A lot will depend on the role of the European Parliament because now the proposals are there and, together with the European Council, you are the legislators.
I myself, together with my colleagues in the Commission, have been consulting with some of the leaders of European industry and they accept this point, generally speaking.
I think this is a fair position, not only with the business community, of which I have been speaking, but also with social partners.
That is why, for instance, we have suggested that the first Knowledge and Innovation Community of the new European Institute of Technology should be devoted to climate change, energy and environmentally friendly industries, because this is a major concern and we now need to streamline some of our programmes in the European Union within our budget and with the resources we have available, in order to put more priority and more emphasis on this area.
We have a very demanding and challenging task in front of us but I believe that with real commitment - commitment that this Parliament has shown in the past - we can deliver on this, with innovation, with more technological investment and of course working with our main partners.
Concerning the other point about the Lisbon Strategy, as has already been said by Prime Minister Janša, I think there is now a much greater awareness of the social dimension.
We would like to work with you, with all political forces in this Parliament, in that manner.
We have areas of responsibility that we should assume but there are others that are mainly the responsibility of the Member States.
What we can do is improve and indeed invest more in some European instruments, in order to promote social goals and also, as we have been doing through the Lisbon Strategy, promote jobs.
We got the agreement in the end and I am happy to see the instrument, even if it is modest, now exists and is a concrete sign of our commitment to look after those who are not the winners in globalisation.
Among those who are really pro-Europe and support the European project, I think we should be careful not to put the European Union in a position where it does not fulfil some commitments that the European Union as such cannot deliver if it does not have the support of the Member States and our governments.
Of course when I speak of the European Union, I am not only speaking about the Member States but also about the European institutions.
Certainly we expect the European Parliament to retain a very important role in this Mediterranean Union.
That is a way of making the Barcelona Process and our neighbourhood policy more ambitious. (Applause) The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the European Union, the excellent Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša, his government and his administration for the very admirable and difficult work they have done.
As regards the results of the European Council of 13 and 14 March 2008, I welcome the political consensus on the Euro-Mediterranean issue.
Given the current disruption in the financial markets, I am sorry that the European Council, a high-level political body in the Union, did not have the strength, wisdom or clarity of thought to propose a policy that might help to regulate the financial markets, at the very least within Europe, such as the establishment of European regulatory bodies in the key sectors of the internal market (energy, postal services, telecommunications, auditing, banking, insurance, etc.).
in writing. - (RO) The conclusions of the European Council of 13/14 March 2008 and the debates in the European Parliament of 26 March 2008 point out the importance of the EU neighbourhood policy and approve the Mediterranean Union principle, a more substantial mechanism of cooperation between the EU Member States and the non-member states in the southern vicinity of the Union.
Flagrant cases of violation of freedom of the press such as the case of the journalists at the radio station "Voice of Basarabia” or certain televisions or newspapers in Romanian operated or published in Kishinev have been frequently cited lately.
The package submitted by President Barroso to the Parliament is a step forward and it is encouraging that the Council recognizes that the EU must agree on a range of policies before the end of 2008.
I welcome the target to increase the use of renewable, sustainable energy by 20% and there should also be a target in place to improve energy efficiency.
The package should include a target to decrease carbon emissions by 30% by the year 2020 and targets for decreasing carbon emissions every year are needed at Member State level as well.
It will damage our surroundings, our economies and our society.
Following the decisions of the European Council, I have only one small comment to make on the guidelines for employment policies in the various Member States.
in writing. - (RO) The beginning of the new 3-year cycle of the Lisbon strategy was a central part of this European summit.
Among the Council proposals I would like to point out the importance of the principle of the free movement of knowledge within the European Union.
The introduction of this freedom should be supplemented by legislative proposals from the Commission to be presented in the course of this year.
I remind you that, in parallel with the Lisbon strategy, the Bologna process on the establishment of a common education space by 2010 should also be implemented as soon as possible.
Thus, mutual recognition of university diplomas and other formal and informal qualifications, the extension and adequate funding of European mobility programmes such as Erasmus, Comenius or Leonardo, as well as the launching of a new generation of educational curricula and institutions jointly elaborated by the Member States could contribute to the implementation of the free movement of knowledge.
I believe that a commitment to adopt a Charter of Intellectual Property Rights by the end of 2008 is a good step in this direction.
In this way, investment in people will represent a special comparative advantage in the global market, and movement of knowledge capital will not represent the threat of some new kind of delocalisation, but rather a source of wealth on a European scale.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to point out five themes among the conclusions of the Council, that thousands of Romanians, and perhaps many other Europeans, thought of this morning before leaving for work. 1.
in writing. - (RO) The Council expressed its intention to conclude the climate change and energy package by the end of the mandate in 2009, and for this reason the European Union must endeavour to observe this commitment and to remain a leader in the fight against global warming.
The goal is to conclude, in Copenhagen, in 2009, an ambitious agreement on climate change, for the period after 2012, so that EU preserves its credibility at international level.
Another important elements debated in the Council was the risk of relocation of CO2 emissions released by energy intensive industries which are exposed to international competition and will migrate to less regulated markets with a cheaper labour force.
in writing. - (DE) Last year we committed to tough and ambitious environmental targets and the time has now come to face up to the challenge of achieving them.
Nonetheless, it is essential to ensure that the burden of reducing CO2 emissions is divided equitably among the Member States and industrial sectors, and also, in my view, to ensure that those Member States that have already done more than the others to combat climate change are not put at a disadvantage.
in writing. - (FI) The suggestion by the representative of the country holding the presidency that there was a link between the EU's favourable economic growth and the Lisbon Strategy is not credible.
The Lisbon Strategy has none of the informed criteria that would explain the reduction in budget deficits and in public indebtedness or the creation of 6.5 million new jobs.
The credit for this goes to the Member States.
It is in their economies that the lack of any social dimension in the Lisbon Strategy is made conspicuous.
in writing. - (RO) The European Union must become a leader in the fight against climate change.
The adoption of a less polluting policy would improve the quality of life of the 490 million of European citizens.
The Member States should develop policies and actions for energy security and the fight against climate change leading to sustained economic development and job creation.
The European Council established several guidelines: investments in research and development, promotion of ecological transport, review of the Directive on energy taxation, increase in energy efficiency and, above all, the provision of information to and involvement of European citizens in the fight against climate change.
The European Council held in March 2008 pointed out the importance of enhancing EU energy security.
The European Council held in 2007 declared the Nabucco project to be a project of European interest for the diversification of energy sources and energy security within the Union.
