Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (NL) Mr President, in the end I voted for the two reports on the updating of the Schengen Information System.
I hope the report's determination to see these disparities solved will be put into practice. (CS) It is true that the lack of a functioning competitive environment in the telecommunications sector makes the adoption of a new regulatory framework a desirable, even a necessary, step.
I am particularly pleased that we have been able to deal with such matters as number portability within one day, which frees up the rigid market in mobile operators, and the emergency call number 112 giving the location of the caller, which will save more people's lives.
One particularly urgent element is maximising the agricultural potential in the new Member States, since the current discriminatory common agricultural policy is resulting in a serious deterioration of agriculture in these new Member States. (NL) Mr President, the recommendations this Parliament drew up for the work programme of the European Commission for 2009 were, all things considered, really quite strong.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - Costas Botopoulos' report 'Amendment to Rule 121 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure on proceedings before the Court of Justice' deals with a minor modification of the rules to Parliamentary procedure.
I therefore voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on amendments to Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament concerning proceedings before the European Court of Justice.
I did so because the issue in question is an example of respect for the rule of law.
In the interests of ensuring legal certainty and completeness, the rapporteur rightly proposed the addition of a new paragraph to Rule 121.
in writing. - (PL) I should like to express my dissatisfaction that despite the fact that the SIS is a matter of such importance to the citizens of the European Union it is being with under the consultation procedure according to which Parliament simply presents its views.
in writing. - (PT) We are striving to ensure that there is truly free movement of persons within Europe.
As a result, we consider that the 'Schengen area' (which does not include all EU countries and much less so all European countries), despite removing barriers between the participating countries, is actually reinforcing those barriers with other countries (particularly countries with which Portugal has historic links).
in writing. - In relation to RCVs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 on the Sterckx Report, I and my Irish EPP-ED colleagues voted against or abstained on these amendments, so as to demonstrate our concerns over issues relating to the power of the independent authority and the scope of the Directive which would undermine Member State competence in a number of areas.
in writing. - (FR) Europe wishes to protect itself against maritime accidents and the pollution of its seas and oceans.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report by my Belgian colleague, Mr Sterckx, on the regulation of maritime traffic.
in writing. - I and my Irish EPP-ED colleagues abstained on the report on the amendments to the Kohlicek Report.
in writing. - The Costa report deals with important issues for all maritime regions.
I fully support the notion that national authorities and port authorities play a vital role in identifying risks involved in this area and am on the whole satisfied with the measures adopted by this House today.
in writing. - (FR) With our vote today, we have reminded the Council that the Erika III package forms a whole and should be examined as such.
Furthermore, by reverting to our first-reading positions, we have refused to follow the Council in abandoning two important proposals on flag state control and shipowners' civil liability, for which we received no common positions.
The French Presidency, whose hard work and ongoing commitment to finding a solution to this problem deserves a mention, has convinced the Council to resume work on the two missing proposals.
The issue of the two 'missing' dossiers, on Civil Liability and Flag States, needs to be resolved by the Council one way or another, so it is important that Parliament keeps the pressure on by including them collectively in the Sterckx report on Vessel Traffic Monitoring, the Vlasto report on Port State Control and this report.
I appeal to Nicolas Sarkozy and Dominique Bussereau to ensure that the French Presidency allows the creation of a maritime area in Europe that can serve as a model for all.
in writing. - (GA) A short while ago there was a sailing boat accident 30 kilometres off the coast of France.
However, this aim should be achieved by measures that do not interfere with the development of industry in the European Union or the trade in medicinal products.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal seeks to amend the regulatory framework for electronic communications in order to improve its effectiveness, ensure simpler and more efficient access to frequencies available in the radio spectrum and reduce the administrative costs needed to implement the regulations.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Catherine Trautmann's report on electronic communications networks and services because, in my opinion, the legislative framework for electronic communications must be improved in order to offer the consumer more choice, better protection, a cheaper service and improved quality.
It should also be highlighted that the 'package' will facilitate access for people with disabilities to telecommunications services.
in writing. - (PT) Like other natural resources, spectrum is a public good.
Hence the multitude of amendments due to the different approaches of the 27 Member States, each with its own national realities.
Despite the differences of approach shown during the debates, I believe that the Trautmann report represents a step forward for the entire European space, even if amendments such as 132 or 138 caused lively debates.
I believe that the current version adopted by the European Parliament ensures both a common approach to the development of communication within the European space, and a constructive form of control over virtual space, concerning such aspects as data protection or organised crime via cyberspace.
Therefore, in my capacity as Member of this Parliament, I voted in favour of this report.
The aim of Amendment 132 was to develop new ways of achieving a more balanced relationship between the basic right to free access to information and the Internet, on the one hand, and the basic right to protection of intellectual property in response to the dramatic rise in piracy on the Internet, on the other.
The PPE-DE Group withdrew its support for this amendment after the left-wing groups (PSE, Verts/ALE, GUE/NGL) linked their support for the del Castillo Vera report (creation of the European Electronic Communications Market Authority) to this issue.
in writing. - (FR) The telecommunications sector is developing at such a rate that it became necessary to adapt the legislative framework.
in writing. - The telecoms industry is rapidly evolving.
I voted in favour of the amendments proposed by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left: they guarantee a greater degree of freedom on the Internet because this is a freedom of expression as important to democracy as freedom of the press.
in writing. - (FR) I wanted to vote in favour of Mrs Trautmann's report, as it enshrines the social, cultural and economic value of radio frequencies while providing for better management of the spectrum of radio frequencies for the benefit of all operators and consumers.
in writing. - (RO) As IMCO rapporteur for this report, I am pleased to see that the work carried out by my colleagues over the last three months has materialised in this balanced report containing significant improvements to the electronic communications sector.
in writing. - (PT) Begun in 2001, the liberalisation of telecommunications has given free rein to the European markets, which are now more competitive, more innovative and highly profitable.
in writing. - (LT) The liberalisation of the European telecommunications market has been beneficial to the whole of the European Union.
in writing. - I welcome Pilar del Castillo's report on the European Electronic Communications Market Authority.
Member States must therefore decide how to use the digital dividend and ensure that all these types of electronic communications service are offered in available radio-frequency bands, in accordance with the respective national frequency allocation plan and the regulations of the International Telecommunications Union.
However, it is vital that there is a coordinated Community approach so that we can avoid prejudicial interference between Member States, and also between Member States and third countries.
in writing. - Spectrum is a finite resource in the telecommunications industry.
I therefore voted in support of her recommendations.
in writing. - (IT) We Radical Members abstained from approving the Harbour report today in order to highlight the missed opportunities for taking immediate, binding action to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities.
in writing. - (PL) The report adopted on universal services and the rights of users of electronic communications services aims to improve the consumer's position in the market for electronic services.
The maximum length of time for which a telecommunications undertaking may enter into an agreement with a subscriber will be limited to 24 months.
Nonetheless, an operator should also be able to provide the user with the option of entering into a contract for a maximum period of 12 months including all the services and equipment involved.
Access to the 112 emergency number must also be increased.
The Member States should ensure full access to public telephone services in cases when the network collapses as a result of a disaster or force majeure.
Access to the 116 emergency number for missing children should also be improved too.
The Union's legal provisions in the area of telecommunications date back to the 1990s.
Service providers must ensure security of the network, protect users' personal data and stem the flood of so-called spam.
in writing. - What Malcolm Harbour's report shows quite emphatically is that Internet and phone users are currently getting a raw deal.
in writing. - (RO) The liberalization of the telecommunications market, which has been carried out by the EU for 10 years, is an undisputed success.
The reform of the regulatory framework of electronic communications is part of the Commission's global strategy concerning the internal market, and is essential to achieving the Lisbon Strategy objectives, because, from a macroeconomic perspective, telecommunications contribute to rendering activity more effective in other sectors.
The amendments with which the Greens sought to improve this text were rejected and so I can no longer support this proposal.
in writing. - I was happy to support my colleague Ms Lucas's report on the ITTA.
in writing. - I welcome Ms Lucas's report on the International Tropical Timber Agreement 2006.
I believe this report helps set the EU on the right track towards achieving a sustainable timber economy and I voted in favour of it.
It therefore became imperative for us to revise the agreement in order to reflect better these new objectives.
I did so because I believe that supporting measures aimed at resolving regional or global environmental problems in the international arena is actually one of the European Union's most useful areas of activity.
in writing. - (PL) Today I voted against the European Parliament resolution on the European Commission's legislative and work programme for 2009.
in writing. - (PT) It must be symptomatic that the European Parliament has not managed to adopt any resolution on the priorities of the European Commission's programme.
However, at the same time, they do not want to accept the need for a break with the policies that have led to all this.
It is vitally important for the Commission to present a communication assessing implementation by the Member States of the Directive and the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems in the Member States.
The document does not aim to unify social security systems.
in writing. - (SK) I voted against the resolution on the Commission's legislative programme for 2009 because it took over draft amendments requiring new legislation in the social sphere.
Our political group therefore considers it necessary in this matter to retain the principle of subsidiarity whereby each Member State is entitled to apply these principles in accordance with its national traditions and customs.
in writing. - (PT) In 2009 the Commission's activities will be governed by the European election timetable, resulting in a reduced chance of action, particularly by one of the institutions.
At the same time we want an agenda for 2009 that will help to clarify, in the eyes of voters in each Member State, the importance of and benefit to our economies and our societies of the EU's policies.
in writing. - There is still a need to promote children's rights.
I am pleased that Parliament has rejected the Commission's work programme for 2009.
We need to do more to promote decent work in order to tackle poverty across the EU.
It is also important that the resolution reminds India of the EU's values, calling on the Indian Government to abolish the death penalty.
in writing. - (PT) In addition to the many other issues raised by this resolution that we value, we consider it essential to stress that we unquestionably support the deepening of genuine and effective cooperation and friendship between the countries of the EU and India.
India is defending its national interests and age-old values.
in writing. - (PT) Sometimes we need to remember that India is, demographically speaking, the biggest democracy in the world.
However, this agenda must be broader and, in particular, be more in line with the new realities and circumstances.
