Nevertheless, the errors are similar to those of previous years and mostly concern the management undertaken by Member&#160;States.
For the financial year 2002 the Member&#160;States overestimated expenditure in the Structural Funds by almost EUR&#160;5&#160;000&#160;million.
Finally, I should like to point out that the Commission has implemented the recommendations of the Court and improved its report on budgetary and financial management.
The Court has paid particular attention to analysing the degree to which internal control standards have been put in place.
Most of the measures detailed by the Commission following the summary of the reports for the financial year 2001 have been implemented.
Lastly, the Court recommends updating the White&#160;Paper adopted in 2000 in the interests of greater transparency and in order to facilitate following up the reform.
As regards the Budget, there is no doubt that the highlights of 2002 were the recasting of the Financial Regulation and the conclusion of the financial negotiations with the candidate countries, whereby enlargement was put on a sound financial footing.
The effort made not only by the candidate countries but also by all the European institutions to support more widespread and functioning financial controls in the enlargement states are bearing fruit.
The Court of Auditors’ comments on the balance sheet for 2002 also show that the European Union’s entitlements and obligations are not set in stone, but vary according to the tasks – and the example I would give is our share in Galileo, which represents a challenge not only to technology, but also in terms of auditing and of the balance sheet.
The Court of Auditors also issues a positive Statement of Assurance in respect of the receipts, examining both the levying of customs dutiesand the computation of the European Union’s VAT receipts and of the national contributions based on gross national income, which – the various deceptive rumours in connection with the Eurostat affair notwithstanding – is declared by the Member States rather than by Eurostat.
This clearly shows where new priorities in improving financial management both at Commission level and in the Member States are to be found.
I emphasise that the Court acknowledges the Commission’s tighter controls and stresses the problems involved in joint management, which applies to 80% of the expenditure.
The agricultural budget required the Court to audit 64 paying agencies, in the course of which it discovered three where errors cropped up so frequently that they could not be certified as reliable.
This year, we have taken on board this criticism and submitted a supplementary budget totalling EUR&#160;5 billion, and this House will probably adopt it on 18 December.
At the heart of them is the adaptation of financial management to the realities of a budget that will, over the coming year, come close to reaching the EUR&#160;100 billion mark and will comprise over a million payment transactions every year, spread over 35 Directorates-General and 15 – soon to be 25 – Member States, and administered by international and non-governmental organisations.
Checks are no less thorough since the end of centralised budget control, which was in any case only capable of carrying out limited spot checks.
If one also takes into account the audits by the internal audit service, the regular evaluation of the examination of the control systems by the Central Financial Service, the investigations by OLAF and, of course, the ever wider-ranging audits by the Commission’s external auditors, then it becomes apparent that an extensive structure is in place for monitoring the European budget, to which one must add the checks carried out in the Member States in respect of 80% of the Budget.
I agree with the Court of Auditors that this is where there needs to be greater convergence if these controls are to be made efficient.
Controls require rules, for which the conditions were created when the new and fully recast Financial Regulation entered into force on 1 January.
What lies behind this is shown by the example of the financial support given to institutions, which, although a central instrument of Community expenditure, were subject to no rules whatever prior to the Commission’s first Vademecum in 1999.
We are learning our lessons from the Eurostat experience, primarily, of course, within Eurostat itself, but also as regards OLAF and the relationship between the Directorates-General and the political level.
What happened within Eurostat in the years leading up to 1999 is not evidence of the reform’s failure – on the contrary, it is evidence of how necessary the reform was and of the fact that the steps we took were the right ones.
Any public budget largely devoted to the granting of subsidies, and that in what are now 15 Member States and will shortly be 25, will always have to defend its financial interests tooth and nail.
The Commission has committed itself to the objective of doing so; far from being discouraged by setbacks, we will redouble our efforts, and the Court of Auditors gives us fresh courage as we pursue this goal. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the European Court of Auditors, Commissioner, Members of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank you, Mr Fabra Vallés, for your presentation of the Court’s annual report for 2002, and all the more for your having already presented this important document to the Committee on Budgetary Control a fortnight ago.
Overall, I would say that this is an utterly deplorable result in terms of the quality of the Commission’s implementation of the Budget, even if much of the blame lies with the Member States.
The Court’s forthright advocacy of the idea that the administration of the Development Fund should be improved by including it in the general budget is precisely what Parliament has been demanding for some years now.
Thirdly, Mr Fabra Vallés, you spoke about the administrative reform and the internal audits, in which, in the light of the Eurostat affair, this House takes a particular interest.
What you say sounds very positive but we doubt whether these reforms are really having any effect.
The Committee on Budgetary Control will have other questions to ask about reform of the accounting and book-keeping system.
I am bringing my political problem not to you personally, Commissioner, but, so to speak, to the Commission as a college of Commissioners.
The time has come for this to be said out loud, and I believe it is necessary that it should be. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too should like to express my gratitude to the Court of Auditors for drawing up the annual report, which I have, as always, read with great interest.
Finally, even after this report, we do not know how much things have changed for the better or for the worse.
There are such large areas of doubt and such major errors that, in practice, the Court of Auditors is giving the thumbs down to quite crucial areas of the EU budget.
It would have been desirable if, as in previous years, the Court of Auditors had been able to quote a percentage figure for the funds it considers to have been wrongly expended.
This means that there are doubts hanging over a very great many of the figures.
We have been promised thorough reform by 2005, but we have today heard again that the Court of Auditors doubts that it will be possible to implement this reform adequately by 2005.
Money from the European Development Fund has been used to finance contracts between Comesa (Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa) and CESD, the firm that defrauded Eurostat of at least EUR 3 million.
The Directorate-General Development entered into a contract with this firm as recently as in April 2001, a contract valid for 33 months.
I am totally convinced that such a measure would facilitate reform and make it easier to obtain control in this area, in which a lot is at present unclear, especially when it comes, for example, to the control of direct budget aid to different countries. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I want, today, to express my gratitude to the Court of Auditors for the outstanding quality and considerable quantity of its work.
Mr Fabra Vallés, your report, however, also makes reference to structural problems and errors in the European Union’s policies.
EU production has continued to increase since 1995 and the MGQ has been exceeded since 1998/99’.
We have to redefine our objectives, and we have to delve far more deeply in order to evaluate what is being done with these funds in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too should like to extend my thanks to the Court of Auditors for a brilliant report and, at the same time, thank them for the many excellent items of information we receive from the Court of Auditors throughout the year.
The first is the number of impossible administrative systems, and the second is low morale in the administration.
When we look at the problems we confront now that the EU has existed for 46 years, we cannot but observe that the whole problem lies in the attempt to solve problems that simply should not be solved.
Agricultural policy in the 15 countries is quite harmful, as well as being superfluous.
All the 15 countries are so rich that we could easily provide the necessary subsidies ourselves.
We could fulfil all of the EU’s tasks with 10% of the budget, whereupon we should only have 10% of the fraud we see today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, President of the Court of Auditors, I should like to start by thanking Mr&#160;Fabra&#160;Vallés for the excellent report he has presented.
I hope that the German proposal will be taken up even though the SPD, the CDU and the CSU – not the Greens – have made it clear, privately, that they hope it will not be taken up.
The best evidence of this hypocrisy came last night, when the Bureau discussed reform of the secretarial allowance as mandated by the Court of Auditors.
If necessary, we must publicly shame our House into action. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is with a certain satisfaction that I hear the Court of Auditors praising the Commission’s efforts at reform.
Finally, it is also worth noting that the Court of Auditors has approved the 2002 accounts for the European Development Fund, even if there are critical remarks concerning their inspection.
I wish to emphasise that we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party fully support the Court of Auditors’ proposal that the European Development Fund be integrated into the general budget.
That is money that should and could have been used to fulfil the political objectives, and, had it not been used for those purposes, it could have been used in other of the EU’s budget areas, for example research and development.
I think these problems should lead to reflection upon the structures for exercising control in the area of the budget, with competence shared between the Commission and the Member States.
In connection with the publication of the report, and also in this House today, you have said that the Commission’s deadline for reforming the accounting system, namely January 2005, is very optimistic.
I believe that, once again, the Court of Auditors has given us a document that deserves and requires our full attention.
Mr Van Hulten was right when he said that the Court of Auditors has drawn attention to a certain number of things that this House also needs to put in order.
We can see straight away those things in Parliament that are not working properly, and it is quite right that we should, and yet, for years, the Court of Auditors has been telling us that 80% of our expenditure, which is controlled by the Member States, contains an improbable number of errors, false allocations and problems which the Court itself has not been able to identify specifically.
As you know, Mrs&#160;Schreyer and Mr Fabra Vallés, we in the Committee on Budgetary Control have submitted two hundred questions to the Commission – perhaps even more – based on the Court of Auditors’ report.
The other problem is how to follow up the recommendations that the Court of Auditors has made.
For example, on the issue of export refunds, the Court of Auditors had for years identified a problem which had never been taken seriously, and the result of that was that we ended up with the scandal of which we are only too well aware.
Perhaps you could just state that the Statement of Assurance is absent or that you do not believe that reforms will be in place by the time promised, or perhaps you could just report that, where agriculture is concerned there has been no preparation for enlargement to speak of.
If one can talk in terms of only 2% funds getting to their intended recipients, then this policy has proved to be a non-starter.
As you will by now have gathered, we are highly sceptical. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report.
There is a recognition in the Court's report, however, that things are heading in the right direction and we are pleased to see that.
EUR 74&#160;000 million are spent every year on people who are sick within the institutions.
Nonetheless, the Court has considered programmes implemented by Eurostat in the context of other audits.
The results of these audits were included in the Court’s annual reports for the years 1993, 1998 and 1999.
It should be mentioned that the Court had already commented on the TAOs further to other audits.
It should also be borne in mind that 80% of the Community budget goes through the national budgets.
The proposal submitted by the Commission in June essentially reinforces the rights of the insured – all insured persons living temporarily in another Member State will have the same health care rights – but it also simplifies the procedures for safeguarding health care during temporary residency.
In future, it will be the same for everyone, and this means, for example, that people suffering from chronic diseases, such as kidney diseases, will in future be able to come to an agreement with a hospital in the country to which they are travelling and be sure of being able to obtain dialysis.
What we are establishing here is a situation in which everyone is given the same rights and in which it is possible to go directly to the doctor without, therefore, having to do a tour of the social authorities.
The situation is therefore really one in which everyone can be pleased and elated about what is happening, because we shall, in actual fact, all benefit from it.
We do not therefore have data protection problems, because the data that is to be exchanged by means of this Health Insurance Card is exclusively the same data we exchange by means of forms.
The European Commission had officially launched the idea of creating a European health card at the beginning of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union, which ran from January to June 2002, at the informal meeting of Employment and Social Policy Ministers, held in Burgos on 18 and 19 January 2002.
Then, the Barcelona Council of March 2002 decided to create a European Health Insurance Card, a card which will replace the current paper forms which European citizens require in order to receive healthcare assistance in other Member States.
The situation was very different initially, since we were working on the basis of differing situations in each of the Member States.
Nevertheless, the advantages of this European health card are obvious.
For my country, which receives more than 40 million European citizens per year and in which furthermore many Community citizens take up residence, it is very important.
The card for all Community Europeans is going to simplify the procedures currently necessary in order to receive assistance in the country of temporary stay, also guaranteeing that the bodies funding that assistance are reimbursed for their expenses by the country of origin of the beneficiary-user.
I should also like to thank the rapporteur for the fast and flexible work and, above all, for the excellent cooperation with the political groups.
I am also indebted to the Council for its positive attitude in this matter.
So far, students and retired people have been entitled to medical care in the Member States in which they reside, if required, while employees and their families can only obtain essential care in those countries.
In effect, the introduction of a European Health Insurance Card, which will replace the current paper forms needed for health treatment in another Member State, constitutes a considerable advance for Europeans.
This step is an excellent example of the efficacy that can result from a reorganisation of procedures.
The European card will simplify the lives of our fellow citizens, without changing existing rights and obligations.
This practical and very visible act will increase our sense of belonging to the European Union, just as it will strengthen European citizenship.
I also hope that today’s vote will help to ensure that this timetable is adhered to and that the health card will become a reality during the coming year. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I too welcome the decision to introduce a European health insurance form card and congratulate the rapporteur for her clarity and perseverance.
Nevertheless, it has at last been possible to reach agreement in Council.
I congratulate all concerned for reaching that agreement so that the card can be in active use by 1 June 2004.
The rapporteur is correct, however, in pointing out that the European Parliament must be consulted again if an extension of the card to include personal medical data is proposed – indeed, this has already been suggested – as the proper protection of personal information – particularly of a medical nature – is a major concern. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I too would like to join my colleagues in congratulating both the Commissioner and the rapporteur for their work on this issue.
The figures pertaining to this matter are interesting.
Since 1970, the number of people within the existing 15 European Union Member States living outside their home Member State has risen by 61%.
The number of people within the European Union who work outside their home Member State has increased by 54% since 1970.
Finally, to ensure that doctors in the Member States understand what these cards mean, a training or advertising programme should be put in place. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Jensen, ladies and gentlemen, I support the gist of this report.
The way in which health care systems are run is different is every Member State, and the funding too varies from premiums to paying for it out of tax money.
The fact that increased mobility among citizens leads to them calling on health care in another Member State should not be penalised by red tape.
I also applaud the Commission for its diligence and commitment in putting this ambition into practice, as well as the highly positive collaboration of the Council.
All citizens will be entitled to benefits in kind when seeking medical care during their stay in a Member State, and will avoid the complicated bureaucratic process that currently involves the intervention of various different bodies.
I am pleased to note the agreement reached with the Council on the revision of Regulation No 1408/71.
Eliminating the existing forms will, however, take place in stages.
It is, of course, marvellous that we will have this permit next year, but I think that these things are sometimes done all too hastily.
I cannot go into all of this in the two minutes that I have been allocated now, but I should like to alert you to this and to add that, however successful the health insurance card may be, there is an urgent need for the so-called high-level reflection process that was initiated by the Council last year, to culminate in the firm, fully-fledged coordination of health care in which solidarity and quality aspects occupy centre stage. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the proposed arrangements for the insurance card may abolish a few bureaucratic procedures, but in practice any positive points are cancelled out by the policy of reducing social spending and benefits, in accordance with the Maastricht criteria, on the pretext of excessive public-sector deficits, and by the policy of commercialising the health systems.
The proposed measures will probably make the financial situation of the insurance funds worse.
The introduction of a Health Insurance card is, of course, extremely welcome.
It will make it significantly simpler for people in the various Member States of the European Union to have their social rights safeguarded without administrative worries.
At the same time, it is important to emphasise that this new European Health Insurance Card does not provide any new social rights.
I also wish to emphasise that, today in many EU Member States, there is an economic crisis within the health and social insurance systems.
The objective of harmonisation, or of creating a European catalogue of social rights without linking this to funding by the Member States, is very dubious.
Administrative simplification is very important, as other Members have pointed out, but I would also take this opportunity to say that for the first time we are modifying the old Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and we are beginning to talk not just about the free movement of workers in Europe, but also the free movement of citizens, and we are beginning to organise a discussion and political practice in which the right to European citizenship begins to become a reality in relation to such fundamental elements as the right to health.
I would also say, Madam President, that this success and the congratulations we are all offering must not lead us to be complacent: we must continue to be demanding because this is simply a first step.
I would like to thank them because there have never before been so many Members as there are today to hear me.
Remember, therefore, to vote for this document and to show my satisfaction for this wonderful health Charter’. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is excellent that we are dealing with this European health card on a first reading.
It is a tangible way of bringing Europe closer to the citizens and I would support the view that this card should, in fact, have a European logo and should be very clearly identified as a European benefit for citizens.
As far as the card is concerned, I should like to clarify that the European Health Insurance Card is not a health card like others we know in certain Member States.
They say it is very difficult to agree on complicated social issues, but here, 15 Member States with different social protection systems have agreed and now we have a common single regulation.
As many Members of Parliament have already said, the European citizens will have the euro in one pocket and the European health card in the other pocket: a real symbol of social Europe.
I believe that now, after Parliament's first reading, it will be possible to adopt the regulation before the end of the Italian presidency. –That concludes the debate.
This proposal was approved by the Commission on 18&#160;November.
I would furthermore like to make it clear that we disregarded group boundaries in voting together on one point on which the House has taken a political decision, namely the reduced rate of tax for labour-intensive services, and were outraged to hear Commissioner Bolkestein say yesterday evening that he envisages extending this for only six months, even though even the Council is thinking in terms of two years and we in terms of six.
However, as regards the French authorities, and the tax authorities in particular, but also those MEPs of all origins who make up the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jean-Charles Marchiani apparently benefits more from .
It remains to be seen, however, how these payments will be implemented in future, bearing in mind that less than EUR&#160;one&#160;billion have been entered in 2004 for pre-2000 programmes.
The question is that, if there are nearly EUR 13 billion in outstanding authorisations for pre-2000 programmes, these authorisations should be fully implemented rather than cancelled, in accordance with the principle of the purpose of the expenditure, so as to uphold the principle of economic and social cohesion.
Rather than any concern for implementation, this is an attempt to respond to the constraints of the Stability Pact, by reducing in this way the national budgetary contributions of the European Union, particularly those of large countries such as Germany and France. &#160;&#160; .– The programme for the conversion of the fleet that operated under the fishing agreement with Morocco was approved two years ago after the agreement was not renewed, making EUR&#160;197 million available for the Portuguese and the Spanish fleets, which were the two fleets affected.
The Commission’s proposal aims to amend the basic regulation to facilitate implementation of the current programme, specifically by broadening the eligibility criteria for beneficiaries and extending the deadlines for the granting of individual compensatory payments (by 12 months).
This flexibility, with which I agree, should be extended to the cofinancing of national early retirement schemes and individual compensatory payments linked to a social conversion plan, as was proposed by the rapporteur and adopted by Parliament.
I would highlight the proposal to include measures similar to this regulation within the scope of the regulation on structural assistance in the fisheries sector whenever stock recovery plans are adopted or fishing agreements are not renewed.
This could be a means of alleviating the socio-economic consequences when severe restrictions are placed on fishing opportunities. &#160;&#160; In spite of constructive efforts, current fisheries policy still means that the EU is buying itself the right to misuse the natural resources of the poor.
We have therefore chosen to vote against this report in its entirety. &#160;&#160; .– The EU fishing agreement with Morocco ended in 1999.
Because of this non-renewal, the Community fleet has fallen victim to a large number of restrictions.
This situation has affected 400 vessels and 4&#160;300 fishermen.
This was a sector that did not need this situation to reach crisis point, since the main countries affected were Spain and Portugal, especially the Algarve.
The Community fleet must not be the silent victim of the impasse that the negotiations with Morocco have reached.
The aim is to treat all fishermen fairly and to include as many fishermen from the Community fleet as possible. &#160;&#160; .– This proposal for a regulation aims to maintain the current scheme of support for the marketing of certain fishery products from the outermost regions, a scheme which has successfully existed since 1992 and is part of the objectives of the POSEI programmes.
In this respect we agree with the rapporteur regarding not only her approval of the current scheme but also the change in the legal basis from Article 37 to Article 299(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, relating to the specific characteristics of the outermost regions.
It is also necessary to ensure that this scheme will be ongoing, in view of the fact that the constraints on these regions are permanent.
This is an attempt to ensure that the regional economic players operating in the fisheries sector enjoy production and competition conditions similar to those that exist in the continental market.
These make their products more expensive and less competitive than those of Community producers in continental Europe or producers in ACP countries.
It is therefore important to ensure that this process of modernisation and renovation can continue without constraints deriving from Community legislation.
Lastly, the rapporteur also calls for a report to be produced evaluating the implementation of these measures, in order to examine whether they should be continued after 2006.
The ‘citizens’ criterion’, which would be used to assess the impact of the proposals on citizens’ everyday lives and could lead to information measures or compensatory measures, may itself benefit people and help to increase their interest in Community issues, such as raising the levels of participation in European integration.
Equally important, in my opinion, is the creation of a single Internet portal for all the institutions, through which citizens can follow the decision-making process from start to finish, and the use of external experts.
Hence the importance of these measures for ship engines also.
I consider, however, that the measures proposed by the Commission fall short of the objectives that this initiative is intended to achieve.
Corruption must be fought at all levels: international, national, regional and local.
Corruption in one Member State is consequently no longer only a domestic problem; it becomes a transnational problem, which would be combated more effectively by means of joint EU action.
The role of the European bodies responsible for encouraging cooperation between Member States in eliminating corruption is crucial.
Coordinated action by these bodies (Eurojust, Europol, OLAF and the European Judicial Network) will strengthen the actions undertaken by national police forces and will facilitate transnational investigations, by sharing the Member States’ information capacities. &#160;&#160; .
It can be criticised, however, for: - a degree of federalism, which we do not endorse, examples of which are its defence of the European arrest warrant, the increase in Europol and Eurojust’s powers and even poorly defined, heavy-handed and unjustified creation of a European public prosecutor's office. - some confusion between measures for transparency and measures for standardisation (customs) with less attention being paid to the interests of peoples and nations; - a highly administrative, bureaucratic and federalist outlook, which is not very participative and would exert little political control over the major economic and financial powers, specifically: off-shore investment houses, banking, clearing houses, in other words, genuine money-laundering institutions.
It is for this reason that we have abstained on the Rutelli Report. &#160;&#160; .
Instead of having refugee camps in Member States, we shall have them at the gates of Fortress Europe, with worse health and social conditions and without any guarantee of respect for human rights.
The common immigration policy must take this into account and ensure that Member States have margin for manoeuvre in terms of managing their migratory flows.
The latter, with shared responsibility, must be extended to third countries, to the Union’s partners, by means of the including in Association Agreements a clause on cooperation in the field of immigration. &#160;&#160; .
I roundly welcome this Commission proposal implementing the decision of the Barcelona European Council of March 2002 to introduce a European Health Insurance Card.
The card will not change existing rights and obligations and is intended to simplify access to treatment in the country visited and, at the same time, to provide a guarantee for the institutions funding the health system in that country that the patient is fully insured in his or her country of origin and that, consequently, the institutions in their country of origin will duly reimburse all costs.
I therefore believe that this measure embodies one of the most important principles underpinning the European Union, which is to guarantee throughout the territory of the EU a high level of health protection for all citizens and to contribute to the free movement that we all wish to see, abolishing barriers and obstacles to the geographical mobility of EU citizens.
Starting with the need to ensure that citizens are informed about the card’s introduction. &#160;&#160; .
The proposal nevertheless fails to meet expectations in this sector, which today accounts for around 150&#160;000 farms and 4% of farmland in the EU.
In this context, I agree with the rapporteur when she states that organic farmers, who are the main actors involved in this form of production, must play an active role in this process of amending regulations.
Organic crops and products continue to grow in importance as a proportion of our production and every effort must be given to assist the sector.
I particularly want to see moves in this area in view of the newly-relaunched rural development pillar.
It is important, for example, that we recognise the languages of the new Member States.
These controls must, of course, take place at the production stage and, on this point, we agree with the rapporteur’s position regarding the possible pollution risk from GMOs.
These controls should, however, also be practised at the product marketing stage and, therefore, for imported products so that, in a market that attracts more and more consumers, abuse and deception are avoided. &#160;&#160; .
We have therefore chosen to vote against this report in its entirety. &#160;&#160; – Yesterday evening, at the end of the debate, we were astounded to see the Commission pull away the veil and declare that it was not, in any case, proposing to extend the experiment of reduced rates of VAT for labour-intensive services, even if Member States called for it unanimously (as was the case on 25&#160;November 2003).
This idea, which has been put forward by the Member States with a view to the potential effects on their tax policy, enjoys the support of the European Parliament, although it is strange that, in this case, Parliament has adopted a more realistic stance, in particular by taking the view that this is not the time for greater harmonisation and by supporting the Council’s intentions to extend the experimental application of reduced VAT rates in certain labour-intensive services.
Commissioner Bolkestein refused to present this extension at the last Ecofin Council meeting of 25&#160;November.
On the subject of reduced rates, however, and bearing in mind the concept of tax sovereignty, it should be recalled that the Member States must maintain the necessary flexibility in implementing social and cultural policies, in particular when setting reduced VAT rates.
Next, since a minimum rate already exists, the Member States must have the power to set rates in line with their policy options as regards tax redistribution and the funding of national budgets. &#160;&#160; – Four years of reduced rates of VAT do not allow us to see the complete effects of this experiment; all the more since, knowing that it was temporary, some employers did not implement it.
This has had a beneficial impact on employment.
I call for enforcing the Member States' right to keep the rates of VAT on labour-intensive services low if this is underpinned by sound arguments from a social and employment point of view. &#160;&#160; .
This block by the Commission, which takes our professions hostage to increase its own power, is unacceptable and shows clearly that any transfer of competences must remain reversible. &#160;&#160; .
Finally, the Intergovernmental Conference continues to sit and negotiate giving constitutional status to liberalism, regardless of the 450 million Europeans.
There is not a trace of sensitivity in the European Parliament resolution to the extremely negative consequences which, as we have repeatedly stressed, the new ‘Constitutional’ Treaty will have for the peoples.
We take a particularly dim view of the resolution’s supporting what is termed the clause whereby Heads of State or Government are able to give up the Member States’ right of veto without this needing to be ratified by the Member States’ parliaments.
We also oppose what the resolution says about reducing the number of Commissioners, which would mean each country losing the right to appoint a Commissioner.
Finally, it is also unacceptable for it to be possible, as proposed in the resolution, for changes to be made to the Constitution without unanimity and without ratification by the Member States’ parliaments.
I voted against in the first case and abstained on the second part of item 9 because: - it is not clear whether the Naples Conclave will result in the idea of one Commissioner per Member State.
The European Parliament should now adopt an objective, realistic and unbiased position, instead of insisting on an uncompromising stance and on false ‘negotiating positions’ – Parliament is not involved in any negotiation.
As to the Italian presidency’s lack of support for balance, given its proposal to overcome differences concerning the Preamble by making an explicit reference to Europe’s Christian or Judaeo-Christian heritage, whilst at the same time confirming the secular nature of the European institutions, this simply demonstrates the intolerance and prejudice underpinning the political resistance to the growing call being made by millions of European citizens for social change. &#160;&#160; I have voted against the resolution (which was nonetheless adopted by 346 votes in favour, 106 votes against and 58 abstentions), for, on crucial points, it does not meet what is required by central features of the Swedish Christian Democrats’ values and our work to protect the rights of small countries in the EU.
This was rejected by plenary (with 213 votes in favour, 293 against and 17 abstentions).
Parliament voted against this, however (by 349 votes in favour, with 147 against and 49 abstentions).
Instead, paragraph 8 now states, mistakenly, that the Commission would be in danger of acquiring an intergovernmental character if a Commissioner were appointed for each Member State.
The resolution justifies this by saying that the Commission would be in danger of acquiring an ‘intergovernmental character’ if a Commissioner were appointed per Member State.
That is the background to the position I adopted. &#160;&#160; – I voted against the MacCormick report for the reasons given in my minority opinion appended to it: the ‘contracts’ or ‘target-based tripartite agreements’ are nothing other than a war machine deployed by the Commission against the Member States in order to bypass them by establishing direct links between Brussels and regional authorities.
In order to better avoid these dangers it would, however, have been preferable if the European Parliament had not itself approved their causes &#160;&#160; .
As a matter of fact, because the aim that is proposed – by means of ‘formally coordinated actions’ being able to ‘improve the implementation of policies’, in other words, to establish Community standards that can only be applied with particular arrangements, taking account of very different and specific existing realities – already features in the Treaties, specifically by implementing the principle of subsidiarity and by means of a much more straightforward and appropriate process, which is to set targets to be achieved, leaving it up to the Member States how to do this by means of a directive.
Consequently, what underlies this initiative is not the crucial need to combat ultra-bureaucratic or highly centralised procedures or for a real increase in the power of local authorities to manage their own domain, but simply to raise local authorities to the level of direct partners of the European institutions in implementing their guidelines, in an attempt to take over from States as the national interlocutor.
Hence the support and the hearty congratulations of Parliament’s ultra-federalist Committee on Constitutional Affairs. &#160;&#160; .
I abstained from the vote on this report because I feel that the reasons the rapporteur gave for ‘regretting the absence of fully effective connections between the European Institutions, especially the Commission, and territorial authorities within Member States of an internal-national, regional or local kind’ are not sufficient to justify launching ‘target-based tripartite contracts and agreements’.
This will lead to chaos.
In accordance with the EC Treaty, the Community and the Member States are obliged to adopt measures to combat fraud and to protect the Community’s financial interests.
I share many of the rapporteur’s criticisms and concerns about the evaluation of OLAF’s activities.
As the rapporteur states, ‘the Eurostat case has laid bare a number of weaknesses in the Office’s investigative activities’, in particular the fact that the investigation has been dragging on for years and that the rules to protect those being investigated have not been complied with.
Given the lack of any such provision, the cross-border transport of mortal remains is governed by two international legal instruments: the Berlin Agreement of 1937 and the Strasbourg Agreement of 1973, concluded under the auspices of the Council of Europe, to which only some Member States have acceded and which, in the rapporteur’s opinion, are largely obsolete.
The rapporteur is of the view that, on the basis of these agreements, in the event that a citizen of one Member State dies in another Member State, the formalities are more complex, the time that elapses before burial or cremation is longer and the costs are higher than if the death occurred in the country of origin of the deceased person.
For this reason and given that there are large immigrant communities in some Member States with origins in another Member State such as Portugal, for example, we should enhance the value of measures that could meet the specific needs of these communities, especially as regards the set of problems addressed in the report. &#160;&#160; .
The differences in law found within the national legal systems of the various Member States of the European Union place the relatives of persons who have died in a Member State other than their own in a particularly distressing situation.
The necessary formalities, which are inevitably more complex in such cases, the extra time required and the higher costs incurred by victims’ families make a painful and very sensitive time even more dismal.
I agree in particular with the rapporteur’s assertion that freedom of movement is hampered by this legal framework, especially because equal treatment between Community citizens and nationals is not fully respected.
Because I believe that the rapporteur’s suggestions are heading in the right direction, providing for the practical adoption of measures and ending the inactivity of the European Commission in this regard, I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to add to what has been said about the way in which we conduct these meetings.
I think it is scandalous, the way in which we do not bring items to a close in the manner laid down and the way in which we treat our Commissioners.
