I can inform you that 25 Scandinavian MEPs and interpreters took between 10 and 20 hours to arrive here in Strasbourg.
What is more, I also had problems obtaining a seat at all on a flight to Strasbourg.
It is quite unacceptable for MEPs to have to spend time which should be devoted to political work or to their electorate at home on wondering how they will manage to get to their place of work and also on working out where they are going to spend the night.
I hope your points are not just to do with problems of air travel to Strasbourg, as we have a lot of work on this morning.
Your comments will be passed on to the leaders of the political groups and we will have an opportunity, in a few moments' time, to see if the message has been received.
Turkey is a candidate country and should show more willing, through Turkish Cypriots, as regards the commitments which it entered into in Helsinki.
Mr President, I wish to raise the same issue and to condemn the provocative action by the occupying forces in Cyprus.
Mr President, I merely wished to inform you in this connection that Turkish forces have proceeded 300 metres into the buffer zone alongside the British base in Cyprus and that they did so with the blessing of the British.
Mr President, I am taking the floor regarding the issue of Cyprus and the situation there because I do not think that it should only be our Greek colleagues who alert us to the problem which has now existed since 1974.
It is unacceptable that a country seeking membership of the European Union and with which negotiations to accord it pre-accession status have now been going on for 27 years can occupy an area covering 40% of Cyprus.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 July, this House will decide whether to grant discharge to the Commission in respect of the general budget for the 1998 financial year.
These conditions corresponded in large measure to the demands contained in the report by the Court of Auditors, such as the commitment to ultimately arrive at a positive statement of assurance.
The Court of Auditors declined, for the fifth time in succession, to provide an assurance that the Commission' s handling of the finances for the 1998 financial year had been careful and economical.
The Commission was criticised for being slow to produce documents and information, and likewise, there was criticism of the lack of transparency and independence as regards disciplinary procedures.
Since the Commission had at least fulfilled some of the conditions within the period stipulated, and the appointment of a new Secretary-General of the Commission had signalled a fresh start on the personnel front, I moved in my follow-up report that discharge be granted, or at least I recommended that the Commission recover the funds from the Fléchard and ECHO cases, which are estimated to total approximately 17 million ecus, for the EU' s coffers.
On 27 June 2000, a majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control rejected the call for the money to be recovered.
The Commissioner for the Budget informed us on 15 June that up until 1996, a further three contracts were concluded with Fléchard.
We have always recognised that the current Commission can only be held responsible to an extent for the mistakes of the past.
After all, the current Commission only took up office in the summer of 1999 and we are examining the 1998 financial year.
I am now in a position to assess this action plan and have to say that after April of this year, this plan and cooperation with the Commission stepped up the pace of the reforms already introduced within the Commission.
Indeed Commissioners have since publicly acknowledged that there were major problems in this area.
For example, on 15 May of this year, Commissioner Nielson told the Financial Times that the Commission machine was never constructed to deliver development assistance.
I would stress again that I believe our action plan is heading in the right direction in this very respect and that it will enable us - Parliament and the Commission that is - to jointly take more responsibility for this area and to ensure that there is better management.
Accordingly, I would like to reinforce the point that in future, we in the Committee on Budgetary Control expect to receive a six-monthly report from the Commission - indeed we have already been promised one - and that this close cooperation will enable us to simplify matters for the 1999 financial year and, I feel it is safe to say, for the 2000 financial year, and we will no longer be forced to use deferral as a means of bringing pressure to bear.
I therefore also believe that in future, the Committee on Budgetary Control is going to have to concentrate much harder on the essential guidelines and not get so bogged down in the detail.
An electronic inventory system is in its early stages and we intend to enquire how this inventory system is working in practice in the course of future discharge procedures.
Here too we have yet to see how this new procedure will work out in practice.
I am therefore in favour, as I was in April, of granting discharge.
A broad majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control has signed up to this.
In Recital 33 of the April motion on Parliament' s grant of discharge, the discharge was linked with the Court of Auditor' s report on the finances of the groups, although everyone knows that only the groups themselves are responsible for their financial affairs.
Although one can understand the attitude of the Court of Auditors, which only cooperates with Parliament as an institution and has therefore failed to cite the names of individual groups associated with specific shortcomings, I still feel that we should discuss this with the Court of Auditors so as to agree a different arrangement for the future.
On 13 April, Parliament decided by a majority to postpone the discharge and ask the Commission to supply further reports and information.
Naturally the Commission abided by Parliament' s wishes and on 11 May it submitted the following documents, among others: the Financial Controller' s report on the corrections made to ex-ante controls, a report on the conclusions drawn from the investigative committee into customs procedures, a report and overview in connection with the contracts of scientific visitors, a report on the number of disciplinary proceedings associated with financial irregularities undertaken since 1998 and the outcome thereof.
The Commission, and particularly myself as Commissioner for the budget, are completely in agreement with the Court of Auditors and Parliament on this.
Firstly we need error prevention measures, such as - to quote but one example - a measure to reduce the number of invitation to tender and award procedures for external aid - be it the PHARE, MEDA or other programmes - from the 80 different procedures we have had up until now (would you believe?) to 40.
I would remind you again that my colleague Mr Kinnock is to submit a draft on the reform of disciplinary proceedings before the summer recess.
This concerns the future and the past.
The Commission set out to ensure that the report and the response from the Commission, which also details the sequence of events, would not be kept secret or confidential but would be officially available, and indeed they can now be called up on the Internet.
The Commission must uphold the principles and rules of legality in the current fight against fraud and in the efforts being made to shed light on cases from previous years.
I would remind you that the principles to do with passing on information also feature in the agreement between Parliament and the Commission on the transfer of information.
This agreement should provide a clear basis for this important aspect of relations between Parliament and the Commission, and consequently, it should also form a sound basis for the procedures pertaining to the discharge process.
I would like to thank the Members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, who have contributed enormously, not only to the report, but also to the results, the assessments, the observations, and, above all, to the many proposals for improvement and the challenges we have faced.
He announced that collaboration with Parliament would be a fresh collaboration.
On the other hand, it is also obvious that we are continuing to demand that the present Commissioners show the utmost transparency with regard to Parliament.
Finally, I should also like to say that, in the context of this Commission, we feel that Parliament will have to take firm control of OLAF because this is in fact one of the key means that we are going to be able to develop for the future.
Whatever the case, Mr President, I think that the salient conclusion that should be drawn from our work - and this view is shared by a good number of fellow Members of all political complexions - is that henceforth, firstly, we shall do our utmost to monitor what is going on and, secondly, we shall insist, as a basic requirement, that the Commission should be open with us.
Mr President, I should like to make one observation on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation and one on behalf of the Socialist group as a whole.
We in Europe want to play a key role in establishing this with the necessary resources.
But this means that we need to actually make this change within the next couple of months.
And this is, at the end of the day, what the European citizen judges you as Commission and us as Parliament on.
I wish the Commission every success in advance.
Rather than stick with the hysterical, drum-beating report that the rapporteur produced, which, if truth be told, had little originality, no sense of direction and no suggestion on how to move ahead constructively, the committee decided back in March to postpone the discharge and to set out seventeen clear conditions which we expected the Commission to sign up to in the space of a couple of months.
For example, the promise to cut the number of errors is a major promise but it will not happen unless we have the commitment and the resources to go with it.
Will you make a commitment though to cooperate fully with our internal inquiry committee and give us the information we request?
I think Mr Pomés Ruiz is perhaps just a few seconds late.
My political group, like all of them, is going to comply with the regulations and provide information when it is appropriate to do so.
However, when free to do so, each group has managed its finances in the way they considered appropriate.
Logically, at the beginning it needs more time, but we hope that other decisions will be taken much more quickly.
We also hope that the Interinstitutional Agreement which we have finally reached will improve our relations, so that we can provide each other with mutual support and build Europe more quickly.
To end, I would like to say that we agree with the discharge of the accounts which the three reports refer to.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the 1998 discharge was a fascinating exercise in terms of both the budget of Parliament and that of the Commission.
Against the Committee on Budgetary Control' s judgement, we rejected the European Parliament' s discharge, and we formulated five requests for the Secretary-General of this Parliament.
Our group agrees with the conclusion that discharge may on this occasion be granted.
It is just as much about designing one' s administrative and production machinery in such a way that the objectives laid down in the budget can be achieved.
Mrs Schreyer can always come here sure in the knowledge that Parliament' s Committee on Budgetary Control will not hurt a hair of her head.
Where Parliament' s 1998 accounts are concerned, I would note that the problem is the same as in other areas of the Union, namely an all too careless attitude to the way in which the money is used.
We have taken the discharge procedure most seriously and I should also like to thank the administration and the Secretary-General for their collaboration in this exercise.
I think it was a good approach to clarify matters, look into them more carefully and solve some outstanding problems with a properly argued report enabling Parliament to have all the facts in order to grant discharge to the administration and the President of the European Parliament.
More than 60% of the report voted upon consisted of amendments.
Mr President, it is extremely rare for a report to be quite so turned around after the vote in committee.
This Parliament has no clear majority or minority.
We have to rely to a certain extent on parliamentary fair play.
If a clear majority emerges, then this majority feeling should be expressed in all the aspects of a report, without resorting to playing on words or abusing procedures.
We shall support this report which the rapporteur is clearly against.
Rest assured, Mr President, that the TDI group will vote in favour of discharge, at least the radical wing of the group which I represent here.
Indeed, as a rule we do not know everyone involved in day-to-day legislation and in the administration of the now 800 billion being used.
Mr President, the European institutions must be aware that they have a responsibility and also an obligation to guarantee the European citizen an efficient and economical administration.
Unfortunately though, the opposite still holds true, as borne out by cases such as Fléchard and the ECHO administration.
Nor should we be surprised if European citizens continue to lose confidence in these administrative systems.
Consequently, we Independents have no intention whatsoever of granting discharge to the report on the general budget.
Mr President, this brings us to the conclusion of a momentous two years for the European Union, which began with the 1996 discharge and its refusal.
We need, in this debate, to associate the 1998 discharge with that of the framework agreement which we will be voting on tomorrow.
The Council, by its absence today, shows its lack of interest in the way in which we, as a Parliament, have used our powers to begin the birth of a political Europe.
Indeed, one or two of her amendments, like removing paragraphs 47 and 48 of the discharge report today show that some of these amendments look more Commission-born than in Parliament's interests.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to repudiate what Mr Poettering said about Mr Kuhne.
It is in the nature of budgetary control that there always has to be somebody who feels their toes have been trodden on.
It is hardly surprising that two Members of the Conference of Presidents should have a problem with the control and authority exercised by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Parliament postponed the discharge for the 1998 financial year in April, but with no intention whatsoever of provoking a trial of strength with the Commission or even working towards a refusal of discharge.
We agreed, on the basis of my report in January, that they were to be submitted by 30 June.
It is 4 July today.
Our granting discharge for 1998 is, in reality, a vote of confidence.
Mr President, let me first say a few words regarding the quality of the work of our rapporteur Mrs Stauner.
Let me also say a few words regarding the speeches made by the Socialist Members.
The job of the Committee on Budgetary Control is not to hang the Commission out to dry for the duration of a parliament, but to ensure that Europe's citizens are served by an executive that implements its political priorities efficiently and effectively.
I also want, and feel compelled, to express my admiration of our rapporteur, Gabriele Stauner.
I would therefore like to thank all our opposite numbers, be they from the Commission, the Court of Auditors or the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, the statements made by some of my fellow Members have already contributed significantly towards expressing the discontent aroused by the report on discharge.
This is the reason why the text on which we are to vote during this part-session is substantially different from the initial draft.
We cannot fail to note the same petty political excesses that some of us already condemned in the initial report on discharge for the year 1998.
Our objective must be to work in close collaboration with the Commission in the interest of our fellow citizens and of the implementation of our policies, and to make the discharge report a proper assessment of the implementation of the European Union budget in both quantitative and qualitative terms.
I only joined the Committee on Budgetary Control a couple of months ago, and to me the meetings and the reports of the last two months have raised probably more questions than they have answered.
Sometimes we seem to forget that we are dealing with the discharge in respect of 1998.
I have carefully read the Court of Auditors' report on the accounts for that year, particularly in relation to agriculture and the Structural Funds.
I have come to the conclusion, having had a lot of experience in Parliament and with European affairs, that things have been steadily improving and that 1998 was one of the best performances we had.
The difficulties which occurred - a 4% possible error in the area of agriculture and a little more in the area of Structural Funds - did not result from the failure of the European Commission to dispense those funds in an efficient way, but from a failure - and it was a small failure - to control the Member States and the European governments and to ensure that the Member States and their administrations had done the job in the way it should have been done.
That is my first point.
I do not think it is reasonable to inform the people of Europe that there was a loss of EUR 14 million to the European budget arising out of this case.
The worst thing you can say about that settlement is that it was made on a legal basis which was not in effect when the crime was committed, but was in effect while the case was still open.
It seems to me that equating that with a loss of EUR 14 million is a gross exaggeration.
Statement by Presidency-in-Office of Council - Action programme of French presidency The next item is the statement by the Presidency-in-Office of Council on the French presidency' s action programme.
It is my very great pleasure to give the floor to the French President, Mr Jacques Chirac. (Loud applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, thank you for welcoming me here today.
Since 1 July, France has held the presidency of the Council of the European Union, and I shall be chairing the meetings of the European Council on two occasions.
Last winter, when I was invited to participate in the inauguration of this new Chamber, I made a commitment to involving Parliament fully in the work of our presidency.
I think it natural and necessary to conduct discussions and debates within the European Union in close collaboration with the men and women that represent the citizens, the men and women elected by the people of Europe, who have the task of representing their opinions in the debate on the future of Europe.
The citizens of Europe want more transparency in the operation of the European institutions.
Nowadays, discussions within the European Union must take place in the light of day and, of course, here in the European Parliament.
Having come into office in quite exceptional circumstances, they have managed to lay the foundations for a radical reform which will bear fruit in the future.
He devoted his life to France, of course, and Europe, a bold and noble idea of Europe.
This House acknowledged his commitment by electing him its president.
The fine and necessary project of enlargement is going to change the European Union, its modus operandi and, perhaps, even its very nature, at a time when it is intensifying its political dimension.
My comments were intended to shed light on the future and to express what the Europe of tomorrow could and should be.
The French authorities are fully aware of the responsibility they bear in this respect and they are approaching this presidency with the ambition to achieve progress or a successful conclusion in all the matters impacting on future development.
They shall do so with a commitment to safeguard, and improve, that which gives our whole project meaning: the protection of fundamental values and the respect of national and cultural identities, the continual determination to reconcile economic performance and social progress and to fulfil the practical expectations of the citizens, and the strengthening of Europe' s role as a major player on the international scene.
The French Presidency is also determined to make progress on the matter of intensified cooperation, which was added to the IGC agenda at the Feira European Council.
The European Council in Biarritz, two months before the Nice Council, will be an informal summit, chiefly devoted to institutional reform.
It will be an achievement for peace and democracy in our continent, and it will make the European Union all the stronger.
The French Presidency is, therefore, determined to achieve real progress in the accession negotiations with all the candidate countries, based on their individual merits and implementing the principle of differentiation.
Bilateral dialogue with the candidate countries will, moreover, be stepped up, and dialogue will also be emphasised in the European conference of Heads of State and Government which I shall be convening in Nice prior to the European Council.
The second focus of the French Presidency is a Europe at the service of growth, employment and social progress.
We can already see the positive effects in all the countries of the European Union.
Coordinating our monetary policies, however, must necessarily be accompanied by serious social ambitions and improved coordination of our economic policies.
The French Presidency will be following up the action initiated by this Lisbon Council.
As you know, I attach great importance to affirming the European social model as based on social dialogue, on social protection appropriate to the requirements of our time and on acknowledgement of the role of the state as the guarantor of social cohesion.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights will have to support this model.
Our priority, then, will be the adoption of a "European social agenda" .
Economic growth and industrial modernisation are meaningful only if they represent a rapid fall in the rate of unemployment which, despite the positive results recorded throughout Europe in recent years, is still far higher than in the United States or Japan.
Europe at the service of the nations also means the determination to make great efforts to achieve social justice, improve the protection of children and boost commitment to combating exclusion in all its forms, particularly in the face of the new challenges of the knowledge-based economy.
The social agenda will make it possible, on the basis of the communication which the Commission has just submitted, to outline a five-year working programme involving all the operators concerned: Member States, the European Parliament, the Commission, unions and management.
This is necessary in order to consolidate the euro and to make sure that the current growth in Europe lasts.
The French Presidency is today proposing to improve the operation of the 11 euro states, shortly to become 12, by making its work more visible and more authoritative, to enhance the coordination of our budget policies by making the Community inspection procedures more effective, to make progress in the harmonisation of our tax policies in the wake of the European Council at Feira and, finally, to take action to prepare our citizens for the forthcoming advent of the euro.
Everything possible must be done to make a success of this crucial phase in both practical and human terms.
Finally, we must put Europe at the forefront of the information society, build up growth in the European Union on the basis of our training schemes - some of the best in the world - our tremendous scientific and intellectual potential and our industry, which is a world leader.
We must also ensure that the benefits of these new technologies are accessible to all, avoiding the creation of a digital divide, and, in particular, supporting Internet connections for all European schools by the end of 2001, as decided.
Europe still seems far too remote in the eyes of many of our fellow countrymen, who find it hard to see what Europe gives them or can give them in their everyday life.
It is crucial that the Convention responsible for framing the text completes its work in sufficiently good time in order to be able to deliver the charter by the end of this year.
I know that I shall be able to count on the support of this House in this undertaking.
The French Presidency will be particularly attentive to the WTO in the context of enlargement negotiations and in considering the problems encountered by specific industries, such as pig farming and the fruit and vegetable and banana industries.
The French authorities are firmly resolved to make tangible progress in the coming months, on the basis of existing and forthcoming proposals from the Commission and from the authorities themselves to prevent our coastlines suffering a recurrence of this tragedy.
We all have the Dover tragedy in mind.
In accordance with the conclusions of the Feira European Council, the Presidency will draw up specific measures regarding sanctions against parties responsible for trafficking.
Finally, we are resolved to make progress in achieving a European area of justice based on the mutual recognition of legal rulings and judgements.
Permit me, in concluding this chapter on the Europe of the citizens, to say a word or two about sport.
Now that the Euro 2000 football championship, which gave Europeans so much pleasure and so many thrills, is over, (Applause)we must ensure that the European Union takes the specific nature of sport and its social role into more careful consideration.
The French Presidency will make every effort to do so. (Applause)The fourth and final focus of our presidency: a Europe with a strong international role.
In terms of the common foreign and security policy, the French Presidency will make a point of affirming the European identity, with the support of the High Representative and the Commission.
One of its priorities will be to consolidate the Europe of defence and security which has experienced spectacular progress in recent months.
We would also like to see the interim bodies in place in Brussels since 1 March fulfilling their given role in the transition to the final phase.
Finally, the arms industries must confirm the ambitious European defence policies by their harmonisation and their cooperation programmes.
The results of recent months have been very positive in this respect, in terms of helicopters, missiles and the future transport aircraft.
In all these areas, the French Presidency will spare no effort to ensure that Europe provides itself with ample resources for its foreign policy, in a spirit of friendship and cooperation, of course, with its allies.
The European Union must provide the countries in this region with a clear European perspective in order to persuade them to undertake reform and to cooperate at regional level.
This will offer an opportunity to give new impetus to the Barcelona process by means of adopting a peace and stability charter and by strengthening economic and cultural links between the two shores of the sea we share.
Here too the French Presidency wishes to develop fully the relations it considers essential in order to construct the balanced multipolar world of the future.
The French Presidency is also keen to ensure that the new convention between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries is implemented efficiently.
Europe must be strong and open to the world.
Tomorrow, the number of Member States will have more than doubled and we must find procedures to enable decisions to be taken and Europe to make progress while strengthening its efficiency and legitimacy.
By working hand in hand, with mutual trust, on each of these matters, together we shall succeed in taking Europe through the phases that are essential for the future.
We shall have consolidated the edifice by making it more welcoming both for those that already reside in it and those that wish to enter. (Applause) Madam President of the European Parliament, Mr President of the French Republic, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to stand here before you at the start of this new Presidency.
Progress has also been made towards an extraordinary enlargement of the Union - enlargement which you have described, Mr Chirac, as a 'fine and necessary project' - and towards strengthening its institutions in preparation for enlargement.
Firstly, I would like to say that I support one hundred percent your commitment to developing Europe' s social agenda.
The Presidency will, in particular, have to tackle a whole range of major issues in relation to which the Commission has already tabled proposals.
The Commission therefore supports the Presidency in focusing on these issues.
At Lisbon, the European Council committed the Member States to making great efforts to eradicate poverty, and a High Level Group on social protection is working with the Commission on this ambitious strategy.
At the Nice Council we should be aiming to achieve a consensus of positions on social exclusion, and the Commission has already put forward proposals on the matter.
Once we have put forward our proposal, I look forward to seeing the plans for the authority move swiftly ahead under the French Presidency.
The impact of our transport and energy policies on the environment, and, in particular, climate change, will be a key theme in two documents the Commission intends to submit to Parliament and the Council this autumn.
The first is a Green Paper on the common transport policy and the second is a strategic document on different energy sources and the security of energy supply.
One of the major challenges facing the European Union is the need to stabilise our continent, and promoting stability in the regions on our borders must clearly be a central part of that strategy.
We therefore fully support your proposal to organise a political summit between the European Union and the most democratically advanced Balkan countries.
The Commission has already started to lay the foundations for this Balkan summit and we look forward to working closely with the French Presidency in order to make more detailed preparations.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force, our legislative system has been working ever more efficiently under the new codecision procedure.
This means that the legislative process is maturing and becoming more and more consensual.
It will give even more democratic legitimacy to the European legislative process, and this is vital to the political health of the Union.
Madam President, Mr President of the European Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats greatly appreciates the fact that you, President Chirac, have spoken here today, at the start of the French Presidency.
We wish you every success for the Presidency.
The debates on Europe' s future, as well as those on the Intergovernmental Conference, go together.
I am grateful to you for bringing Pierre Pflimlin and Robert Schuman to mind.
We also want the European Commission to be the European executive.
In your Berlin speech, you spoke of the great project of a constitution.
Which is why we are far from receptive to the idea of creating a succession of new secretariats, for this is something the European Union must do, through its strong institutions and on the basis of European law. (Applause) Mr President, the most important thing of course, is for majority voting in the Council of Ministers to become the fundamental method of decision making.
Majority voting must become the fundamental method of decision making in the Council of Ministers.
That is an antiquated way of looking at things and we will oppose any ideas of that ilk in no uncertain terms! (Applause) It is the task of the national parliaments to make a better job of supervising the activities of their own governments as Members of the Council of Ministers, and I believe the European Parliament and national parliaments should join forces to this end.
If you are successful then it will be to the advantage of us all. (Applause) Madam President, President of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the House, first of all, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I should like to welcome in the French Presidency.
By a fortunate coincidence, at this crucial point in our history one of the founding countries, the homeland of Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman and Pierre Pflimlin, is presiding over the fate of the European Union.
In the first place, we share the French Presidency' s opinion that institutional reform is a basic prerequisite for the further development of the European Union, especially for these fine plans for enlargement and the commitment we have undertaken.
This, however, is precisely why we need to be able to include the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Treaty, (Loud applause) because we must effectively establish our community of values and, in this respect, I should like to pay tribute to the French Presidency' s determination because it must not be forgotten that you have defended these principles in your own country and in Europe, and we consider that if we wish to solve the problems we face at the moment looking to the future - and I am thinking of the case of Austria - it is essential that we are able to include both this affirmation of a community of values as well as methods of defending these principles in the Treaty.
One of these is the future of public services, of universal European services, (Applause) and the other is the bearing they have on economic and social cohesion, in order to prevent an increase in the economic and social divide which may already exist.
We think this must be included in the package.
A Europe closer to the citizens is precisely what we were asking of the Commission before voting on its appointment.
There is also one sensitive subject in this area, and that is sport, which you gave as one of your priorities.
My group attaches very great importance, as you have done today, to a charter of fundamental rights as part of the package that we contemplate in Nice.
Like you, Mr President, we believe that Europe should be based on the values of freedom, dignity, tolerance, democracy and rights.
We value the access which our citizens have to democratic checks and balances - through this House and elsewhere - in the formulation of European legislation.
My group believes that a strong Europe needs European institutions with a key role for the European Commission.
Helsinki set two tests: firstly we must reform ourselves in Nice; secondly the candidate states must take on board the acquis communautaire.
We should not add a third lock on the door by saying we must have a constitution before they join.
I believe that France, once again, has the opportunity to champion the cause of Europe.
Madam President, Mr President, your country has taken the leadership in European football and is now required to take leadership of the European Union at a key moment in its history.
I think we shall be facing such times in the next six months.
Your Berlin speech where you argued in favour of implementing a process to develop a European constitution is, like several of the suggestions you have made today, a positive sign for the future.
I should like, for my part, to raise three issues on which your presidency ought to be focussing, in my opinion.
This reform must be ambitious.
To put it plainly, the three points left over from Amsterdam in no way represent an adequate agenda.
You declared, Mr President, that we must reassert the values uniting us and defend the spirit of the founders of the European Union, whose goals were peace and stability in Europe.
We have, admittedly, achieved peace and stability within the European Union, but let us not close our eyes to the facts.
The globalisation of issues has gained the upper hand in the course of recent years.
In the face of uncontrollable events, the implications for the future are disconcerting, and the Hague Summit should represent a change in this respect.
I heard you say that you were in favour of this, under France' s leadership.
Our pattern of development is in question.
Your country, Mr President, is one of the most critical European countries in this respect.
By achieving this, the European Union would gain credit not only within the European Union but also throughout the world. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President, the French Presidency of the European Union is starting at a time when the debate on the meaning and future of the construction of Europe is continually increasing in scale.
I do not think that I am exaggerating when I speak of a crisis of confidence that exists between many European citizens and the European institutions, or at the very least a malaise and a search for a new European identity.
In this respect, the slogans coming out of the mass rallies such as those held in Seattle, Washington, Geneva and Millau: "the world is not for sale" , "politicians are powerless in the face of globalisation" , "let the people decide" are the overt expression of much more widespread concerns and expectations which are of direct concern to the Europe that we are building.
In order to have a hope of starting to meet these expectations, the French Presidency should, in the opinion of my Group, endeavour to issue positive messages in three directions, which are, incidentally, closely related.
Political will is going to prove necessary in order to reach an agreement among fifteen Member States against social or fiscal dumping or in order to curb the unbridled trend to liberalise public services.
Action must be taken at each of these levels, in my opinion, and many others too, in order to promote a model of development in solidarity and a social Europe.
More generally, the reports issued, one after another, by international organisations on the state of the world are sounding the alarm: the unacceptable tragedy of AIDS in Africa, the disastrous review of the results in Geneva of the application of the commitments made five years ago in Copenhagen in order to reduce poverty, the continued stranglehold of debt and, at one and the same time, the boom in the financial world which is quite removed from the real economy and people' s real lives.
In all these areas, people are waiting for Europe to take action and, to conclude, it is on this last point that I would like, if you would permit me, to address you directly, Mr President.
Unfortunately, there will be two parties that appear to have problems in agreeing on the menu to be served in Nice.
It is not a matter of settling a few minor details but of selecting a new decision-making process within a set of institutions that governs 80% of the lives of Europeans and which, whether we like it or not, as already quasi-federal in nature.
The Brussels Commission, from the very outset, and the Council of Ministers, since the Treaty of Amsterdam withdrew this initiative are federal institutions, as Parliament is, and as indeed are the European Central Bank and the Court of Justice.
So if the proposals outlined by the French Presidency, particularly making qualified majority voting the general rule, are confirmed in Nice, then we should once and for all have enabled this federal Europe to operate in isolation, protected from all the national democracies that simply gather for the quarterly photograph of the European Council.
Adopting a European constitution would ipso facto render all the national constitutions null and void, reduced to the level of a mere Member State by-law. (Mixed reactions) The truth, Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the European Union, is that this Europe is and shall continue to be forced to forge ahead regardless as long as it persists in thinking of itself as essentially superior to the nations which form it and, hence, destined to replace them sooner or later.
This is where chocolate is abolished but GMOs are legalised.
This is where ... (The President cut the speaker off since speaking time had expired) Mr President, there was a time, when you yourself, Mr Chirac, took sides against the foreigner.
You recommended saying 'yes' to Maastricht because the 1995 presidential elections were drawing close.
By instigating a simplification of the closer cooperation procedures, you have offered our European partners a two- rather than a three-way directorate.
Belittling France by allowing important decisions to be taken without France' s agreement, when, through this closer cooperation, European treaties may, if necessary, be amended to the detriment of France... (The President cut the speaker off) Madam President, Mr President, France is assuming the presidency of the European Union for the next six months.
This name in itself represents our programme, whose prime objective is to ensure that the identities and aspirations of each country are taken into optimum consideration, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Following the crisis of the Santer Commission - which rocked the institutions - why the devil did they bury the expert committee' s report exposing the serious mismanagement within the institutions?
We reject government by officials as much as we reject government by judges.
Consequently, the IGC must not be the instrument of a reform which will turn the Europe of tomorrow into a technocratic monster, ever more ignorant of the peoples' legitimate concerns and of the opinion of the national parliaments that represent them.
We cannot agree to this reform granting some states the right and the power to force binding texts on states which are unwilling.
The institutional reform we are promised is putting a stranglehold on our nations, especially the smallest ones.
Whereas the construction of Europe ought to be seeking to achieve coordination between the policies of Member States, the objective of integration is leading us towards an intolerable process of uniformisation.
In addition, there is the entire debate on balanced regional development and respect for the users of territories, and also the future of public services and state monopolies.
In conclusion, Mr President, we hope that you will have the determination to restore the right of expression to the elected representatives and the various peoples of Europe in order to prevent a new rural and territorial divide.
I am pleased to learn of the intentions which he announced on behalf of the Commission, which are generally in line with those of the French Presidency.
This is, as you know, one of the objectives of our presidency, along with the extension of qualified majority voting.
Mr Chairman, the presidency can already answer your question regarding greater transparency on the part of the Council.
This is one step in the direction you suggested, and I hope that it will serve to improve relations between our two great institutions and also, of course, to clarify the development of the subjects under discussion.
We also share your concern to have strong institutions, as you emphasised.
I said as much yesterday in Paris, at the meeting with the Commission.
Let me add, to respond to a concern you expressed, that I endorse completely the idea you put forward to the effect that we need a single institutional framework and, above all, no parallel frameworks.
Everything that can give new impetus to the construction of Europe must be achieved both within the institutions and in accordance with the acquis communautaire.
Regarding the European social model, one of the main objectives of the French Presidency is to arrive at an agreement on the social agenda in Nice.
We shall do everything in our power to achieve this objective.
For a long time I have represented an extremely poor, rural constituency in France, and I can tell you that I consider, and have always considered, that it had just the same entitlement - and indeed the same duties to contribute in the form of taxation - with regard to the main public services, the lifeblood of the nation, as any district in Paris.
We shall therefore take great care to ensure that the necessary modernisation of public services is not confused with making them profitable, which would be a serious mistake. (Applause) Mr Barón Crespo mentioned many other things, particularly closer cooperation, development of the social model and enlargement.
We should like to see the convention, in which Parliament is to a great extent involved, issue its conclusions very quickly, before Biarritz, if possible, so that we can discuss them there.
We should await their conclusions on this subject.
Closer cooperation is in no way intended to create a Europe divided between those in the vanguard and those lagging behind, but simply to give the necessary impetus to the proper operation of Europe and thus to enable those that wish to go slightly faster in certain areas to do so, which will necessarily result in others being carried along in its wake.
Mr Cox, you need have no fear on the subject of enlargement, which other speakers also mentioned, and which President Prodi discussed in a particularly firm manner.
It is a shared political determination to be capable of applying the same rules throughout the Europe of tomorrow.
We shall carry out our work in this field as quickly and as well as possible, with a view, I would stress, as President Prodi said just now, to enlarging as quickly as possible.
We can discuss Europe' s frontiers afterwards - that is another matter - but peace and democracy must apply to the whole of Europe.
He also mentioned the state of the world today in terms which, I must admit, moved me and which I endorse.
It is true that we live in a world where the gap between rich and poor is increasing.
The UNDP report for 1999, by which I mean not the report tabled this year but last year, gave an example which, although not significant, is still striking, saying that the three largest private fortunes in the world today are equivalent to the sum of the gross national products of all the least developed countries, representing 600 million people.
I am not, of course, going to enter into such a debate right now, even though Europe cannot remain apart from these debates, and so the Presidency, like the Commission and Parliament, must necessarily get involved.
It also has dangers, however, in three areas in particular.
This is true in terms of the citizens within a single country and today we can observe an increase in exclusion despite strong growth and declining unemployment.
The subject is to be discussed, moreover, in the near future in G7 and G8, but it is a subject of concern to everyone, especially Europe.
It is not obvious, but it is a real problem, which must be taken seriously. (Applause) The typical example mentioned by a number of speakers was the Hague Conference to be held in autumn on greenhouse gas emissions.
The final disadvantage, the final risk of globalisation, involves everything related to large-scale crime.
I of course share his feeling that Europe must be first and foremost a Europe of the citizens.
We do not do this enough, that is true, even though, in my opinion, a great deal of progress has been made in this area.
It is true that our cultural diversity is a source of wealth, and that the principle of subsidiarity is an absolute necessity.
I am thinking, for example, of the German Länder, but there are, of course, many other examples that could be cited.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have had the opportunity to make a few comments on the very interesting contributions made by the representatives of this House, and I thank you for the welcome you have given me here today. (Loud applause) I should like to thank the President, Mr Jacques Chirac, for the very full answers he has given the group chairmen in this House.
We shall carry on with our debate.
In his speech last week in the Reichstag in Berlin, which was universally recognised as historic, the President-in-Office of the Council opened up new perspectives for the French Presidency, and also, I hope, for the presidencies which are to follow.
Our fellow citizens await a Europe which at last has the determination to review its modus operandi and to strive to achieve greater clarity, greater transparency and greater efficiency.
The reforms of the Commission and the Council must respond to these requirements.
We must keep in mind that, even if it is not an easy task, France and its partners are under an obligation to achieve results.
Far from clouding the issue, today' s debate has offered some clarification as to the direction of the action to be undertaken in the months and years to come, which I shall sum up as follows: bringing Europe closer to the citizens, all the citizens without exception, be they close to the decision-making centres or remote, economic modernisation and a social Europe, efficiency and a strong presence in the world.
I have every confidence in Jacques Chirac, President-in-Office of the Council, and in his ability, along with our partners within the European Union, to meet these historic challenges.
Mr President, I have a point of order under Rule 120 of the Rules of Procedure, which moreover is expressly quoted on page 25 of today' s agenda.
According to the schedule, the Council was to have 30 minutes' speaking time.
Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on setting the course we are heading for beyond the French Presidency, but this forces us to mention the questions that will be raised, regardless of whether the intergovernmental conference is successful.
I believe that the projects undertaken by Lionel Jospin' s government, in France and in Europe, give the President-in-Office of the Council every opportunity to fulfil this objective.
We must also make a success of this agenda, and this means, first and foremost, making a success of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We are pleased to see that this has been possible.
Then, I should like to tell the French Presidency that it can count on Parliament' s support to prefer rather that we have no Nice Agreement than a mediocre Treaty.
We are thinking, obviously, of the reform underway within the Commission, but also and perhaps more importantly, within the Council.
As regards the social agenda, once again we are pleased to see that the prospect of full employment is henceforth seen as embracing the whole of the European Union.
We are delighted, moreover, to see the commitment of Lionel Jospin' s government to bring a number of essential directives to a successful conclusion.
At the European Council in Biarritz, the Convention members will be ready to propose a comprehensive text which is to include economic and social rights.
In the field of reciprocal recognition of legal rulings, we are continually faced with situations where the divergent nature of our judicial structures involve our fellow citizens in serious personal deadlocks.
Mr President, one final word to express how important we think it is that the French Presidency should also transform the acquis of the Treaty of Amsterdam on the subject of services of general interest.
Such services are also part of the modern world, for example Internet access for all.
I was, however, hoping for a clearer commitment regarding the fundamental rights included in the Union' s agenda, for two reasons.
In the first place, these rights must be enshrined in the forthcoming Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In his speech, however, the President did not cite the examination of this charter as one of the main points of the European Council in Biarritz.
In the second place, since Amsterdam, fundamental rights have formed the foundations of our Union and should represent the constant reference for any Member State action.
The President was the first to refer to the terms of Article 6 of the Treaty in connection with the Haider case.
The measures the French Presidency has already announced in the areas of justice and home affairs appear to live up to this challenge.
Mr President, Minister, let me share a few comments with you in the intimate surroundings of the end of the day's sitting.
And then I must say that, as Paul Lannoye said, I am saddened when I hear people discussing foreign policy and sparing no expense on arms and defence without even mentioning conflict prevention.
The demonstrations in Seattle, Geneva and Millau, however, show that another sort of Europe, another sort of globalisation, is possible.
For the people, these requirements are the priorities in the debate, which is certainly needed, on the weighting of votes or the right of veto.
Mr President, Minister, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian radicals in the TDI Group who, as everyone knows, are European federalists.
I shall use my speaking time, however, to remind you that this Parliament asked the IGC to grant Parliament the right finally to decide on its own location.
This is a fundamental right, and three hundred Members of this House, moreover, made it very clear that they are unhappy about being forced to come to Strasbourg twelve times a year.
I hope that the French Presidency will take due account of this issue, which we consider to be extremely important.
I should like to discuss the three factors which I think are at the root of the crisis in Europe today.
I shall sum this up in one sentence: work on the Constitution and therefore on Europe' s prospects must be clearly launched during the French Presidency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the French President has introduced the French Presidency' s substantial programme to us today and it would be impossible for me to cover even a fraction of the points in four minutes.
My second point concerns reinforced cooperation in the construction of a European Union of security and defence.
I wholeheartedly agree with you when you say that the European Union must have all the means and instruments at its disposal that it needs to pursue a truly common foreign and security policy worthy of the name, which also means strengthening our military capability and establishing the political and military structures we need for a common foreign and security policy.
The new weighting of votes in the Council is also important for striking a new balance between large and small, North and South and rich and poor within the Union, but that is not crucial either.
Mr President, Mr President, the French presidency' s programme is interesting and in no way devoid of substance.
I am not convinced that this is the direction we are currently taking, in spite of all the fine words that have been spoken here this morning.
Mr President, the historical issue concerning the French Presidency, for I do feel that it is a historical issue, is first and foremost to open up the way for the construction of a Europe for all Europeans.
Since then we have dawdled and dragged our feet over the reform of these institutions.
Today, the French Presidency has an obligation to achieve results.
A review of decision-making mechanisms in order to prevent paralysis and a review of the functioning of the Council and the Commission are all on the agenda and I think that the projects for tomorrow and beyond must not conceal what is required today.
The success of the IGC now will actually be the best basis on which to build the huge project for the greater Europe of tomorrow.
In our opinion, there is a clear dividing line between those who want enlargement to bring less political integration and those who consider that greater political integration and clearly defined timeframes will be necessary.
We believe in increased synergy between the European Parliament and national parliaments, but we are against commingling which undermines the fundamental consideration that the European Parliament is the parliamentary organ of supranationality elected by direct universal suffrage.
I would like to make one last point regarding the European Union' s role in the international institutions.
The positive results we hope for from the Intergovernmental Conference should allow us to proceed to the necessary reform of the institutions in preparation for enlargement.
In this context, the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament will each have to play an equally important and equally influential role, but these roles must include active cooperation.
It will have the sure political and parliamentary support of the Forza Italia delegation in the PPE-DE Group, for the Italy of today and of tomorrow will certainly be a protagonist in the construction of that Europe in which we all believe so strongly.
Mr President, what a change we have seen from Mr Chirac' s speech of a few years ago!
I feel that I must congratulate the Socialist government on having convinced the French President so thoroughly.
That is precisely the problem with several words that are used in the current debate.
This is a decentralised federation in which the Member States play an extremely important role in decision-making and remain in control of the Treaties.
The Treaties, after all, define the Union' s sphere of competences, the powers of its institutions and the procedures for adopting legislation or the budget.
The European University Institute in Florence has submitted a fine project for our consideration, which makes our Treaties considerably shorter, more readable and easier to use, without even altering their content.
We must also look at the changes we need to make to our constitution.
On this subject, we must above all do what President Chirac suggested, which is to ensure that, in a Union of almost 30 members, there is no risk of action being blocked.
What is a fact, however, is that certain areas, or certain States, sometimes create delays, which are sometimes temporary.
There is therefore no need to create a hard core and we should instead create a situation in which our constitution prevents action being blocked.
These are the two crucial points for the IGC.
Concentrate on these and above all, do so before enlargement.
Mr President, I congratulate the French Presidency of the European Union on its ambitious approach in all areas and for its intention not to end the Intergovernmental Conference with a minimal agreement, but with results which make enlargement a real possibility.
Due to time restrictions, I will only refer to three points.
In other words, we want closer integration which is open to all current and future members of the Union.
My third point, Mr President, is that I am also one of those who believes that we need a Constitution for the Union.
This does not change anything, but it does mean something very important: that the citizens may finally become aware of which system is governing them.
It would be far better to convert the European Council of Ministers to a kind of Federal Council.
Surely this is the most natural way to provide Europe with a bicameral system consisting of a parliament and senate.
It would be ideal if the decision was taken in Nice to devise a project of this kind in two to three years' time.
Mr President, Minister, the French Presidency has committed itself to a courageous, ambitious, brilliant agenda, considering some of the difficulties we are experiencing at this time.
The important aspect of President Chirac' s speech was, we felt, our common values and intentions.
This is the only way we can move forward in the intense debate on the future of the European Union and reconcile the economic development of Europe with the strengthening of the European Social Model and with the fight against social exclusion and modern forms of poverty, in order to bring Europe closer to the citizens, step up negotiations on enlargement and increasingly consolidate the European Union' s role in the world.
First of all, I wish to say how delighted I am to be here with you and to be speaking on behalf of the French Government, since I was a Member of the European Parliament, before it was located in this superb hemicycle - between 1994 and 1997.
More specifically, I should also like to acknowledge the encouragement given to the French Government by Pervenche Berès and Klaus Hänsch, as well as the ambition sought by some speakers, such as Mr Watson.
Unlike Mr Bayrou, I do not think that it is fair, appropriate or timely today to eradicate these two phases, as it were, and to introduce them both under the French Presidency, because that would entail the risk of complicating the outcome of the IGC or, quite the opposite, to minimise this outcome, and ensure that it would only appear as an annex.
Our position is quite clear.
As Mr Corbett pointed out, it is true that the most important points are, in particular, the extension of qualified majority voting, which generally goes hand in hand with codecision with the European Parliament, and closer cooperation, because this is a bridge between the first and second stages, between the present and the future, since it improves the functioning of the European Union and because it enables us to think about the Europe of tomorrow.
I wish to assure the European Parliament that this Charter is one of our priorities and we hope that the Convention will prove worthy of the task so that we will be able to discuss it in detail at the Biarritz European Council, with a view, as the French President has said, to making as much progress as possible with the content.
I am aware of the more or less unanimous feeling of the European Parliament about the restrictive nature of this Charter.
The Commission will shortly be giving its opinion on this study, Mr President, next week, I believe.
Member States will also have to study this document, which inevitably raises many questions.
I shall say quite clearly that France, - and here once again for a moment I am speaking on behalf of a major national delegation in the Council - would not be able to accept this.
Honourable Members of the European Parliament, Mr President of the Commission, these are some of my thoughts, certainly not all of them, that have been stimulated by this debate, which was of extremely high quality and very encouraging for our Presidency.
Over the last three years, a reversal in its external economic situation has weakened its economic fabric, which is structured but ageing.
This discontent was expressed in February' s referendum on the constitution, which was the first time that the Presidential party had lost an election since independence in 1980.
These shifts, which I have just mentioned, have resulted in the deaths of 33 people, they have made the economic crisis worse and have distorted fair competition in the elections, thereby creating a real risk of instability in southern Africa.
The European Union nevertheless considered it important that elections should be held and that the results should be credible and acceptable.
It therefore sought the agreement of the Zimbabwean authorities to send, as far in advance of the elections as possible, a large mission of nearly 200 observers, thereby demonstrating the Union' s interest in seeing democracy consolidated in that country.
Although our observers noted that the degree of violence, irregularities and intimidation in the period leading up to the elections meant that the words 'free and honest' could not be applied to the fifth legislative elections in the history of Zimbabwe, they nevertheless emphasised the efficient organisation of the voting itself, the large turnout - I believe it was the largest since independence was achieved - and the peaceful atmosphere in which it took place.
On behalf of the European Union, I should also like to congratulate the Zimbabwean people, who, by taking part in these elections in such numbers, have proved their determination to take their destiny into their hands in a peaceful and democratic way.
The entry into Parliament of a significant opposition - in fact it almost has a majority in the seats that were contested in these elections - suggests that constructive debates will be held.
Because the Union wishes to continue to intervene on behalf of those who have been worst affected by the crisis, it is particularly willing to provide assistance for the necessary land reform in order to reduce poverty, despite the fact that this has not been implemented in an orderly, transparent or rational way.
They have all done a magnificent job.
They clearly managed to fulfill their objectives under very difficult circumstances and they discharged their mandate in an extremely effective way.
The mobilisation of a full and experienced team on the ground less than four weeks after an informal decision by European Union foreign ministers is a tribute to the enormous efforts of everyone concerned.
The honourable gentlemen is right to recommend that the European Union should in the coming weeks and months monitor very carefully what is happening in Zimbabwe and provide assistance and support wherever it is appropriate for us to do so.
We would certainly want to endorse this, and my colleague Commissioner Nielson and I will certainly intensify our efforts to strengthen channels of communication, both formal and informal, with President Mugabe and his government, to facilitate the transition to effective multi-party democracy.
The outcome of the legislative elections could mark a major transformation in the country's political culture, the transition to a multiparty system in which Parliament will replace the ruling party Zanu PF politburo as the main policy-making institution.
The new government of Zimbabwe and all those who want to see the country rise above its present serious difficulties, whether they relate to the economic situation, the question of land reform or the terrible scourge of HIV, must now address the challenges effectively, collectively and constructively.
The result of these elections offers the EU a new opportunity for reviewing our cooperation with Zimbabwe.
Zimbabwe's EUR 110 million 8th EDF national indicative programme has a direct poverty alleviation orientation.
Its main sectors of cooperation are agriculture, health and education.
The Commission's approach so far has been that aid directed to the protection of basic social services and the reinforcement of civil society should be maintained even during periods of crisis.
A total of EUR 19 million is about to be released for a micro-projects programme which in the interests of consensual policies has been delayed until after the elections.
The Commission has maintained its support for land reform through this micro-projects programme, which is actually for poverty alleviation assistance for legally acquired land in resettlement schemes.
However, in April the Commission froze the EUR 2 million for technical and policy support for land reform.
The Commission and other donors are ready to support the process, provided it is in the framework of legality, transparency and poverty alleviation objectives, in accordance with the 1998 donor land conference agreements.
This programme is to be financed from the EUR 33 million in the 8th EDF second tranche.
I will take a decision on this in the next few months depending on developments in Zimbabwe.
In any event the European Commission is continuing to support poverty alleviation schemes.
If the government seizes the opportunity offered by these new elections, EU support could be more substantial in the future.
It is my pleasure to give the first presentation of the final report of the EU Election Observation Mission to Zimbabwe here in the European Parliament, an institution that has taught me so much and been such a joy to work in. "These were not perfect elections," said the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai drily.
Our mission had, therefore from the beginning stressed that we were not only there for the election process, but that our final report would also attach great attention to the post-election phase.
Our hope was that, in spite of the extensive violence and intimidation campaign for which the ruling Zanu-PF had by far the greatest responsibility, the people, aided by a large international and national monitoring presence, could cast their votes in a relatively free, fair and non-violent environment on election day.
But I would also like to stress that there was much more non-violence in the form of the millions of people who wanted to exercise the democratic right to vote.
The main opposition party, while challenging the results in 20 constituencies, has also accepted the results of the elections.
The European Union should endeavour to ensure that international observers are deployed in good time for the presidential election scheduled to take place in 2002.
The European Union should make a particular effort during the coming weeks and months to monitor events in Zimbabwe closely and provide assistance and support where appropriate.
The Commission, of course, responded in a swift and commendable way to the decision of the Council, and the continuous cooperation and dialogue throughout the process has been invaluable.
Let me end by saying that the EU mission was a high-profile one, very well received among the people in general to a point that would be the envy of several Member States, including mine, Mr Patten.
Our mission was an act of commitment to the people in Africa and to democracy worldwide.
I see the mission to Zimbabwe as a natural consequence of our support for the struggle for African independence and of our wish to build a strong partnership with a peaceful and democratic Zimbabwe.
Pierre Schori and his team have rendered outstanding service to democracy in Zimbabwe.
It is still important for us to engage in dialogue with the government, the opposition and the socially relevant forces, so that in future, Zimbabwe is able to make a contribution towards stability in southern Africa.
The elections in Zimbabwe have been both a victory and a defeat for Mugabe.
They were a defeat in the sense that, for the first time in its short independent life, Zimbabwe has a multi-party political system, which was something that Mugabe clearly opposed.
Apart from tolerating, and even, as we know, promoting, a climate of intimidation and violence, Mugabe has made considerable errors of judgement.
On the one hand, he has underestimated the European Union' s seriousness, willingness and capacity to act in the case of Zimbabwe.
Mugabe has brought to these elections the customs and methods of a war of liberation, on occasion treating political rivals as if they were colonial occupiers who needed to be banished.
This relative consolidation of a new urban vote, together with the manipulation of official democracy and the violation of human rights, would not otherwise have led to many citizens voting against him, and that is what they have done.
The country and the population will gain as a whole if the current government and the emerging opposition show sufficient political wisdom and common sense to generously and cautiously deal with the transition from former political customs to other new ones.
In this area, the opposition also has a role to play.
Mr President, this will help the future of Zimbabwe, its society and the new political culture born of these elections.
Threats of violence against supporters of the MDC have continued after the elections.
The Archbishop of Bulawayo has been threatened.
We should take direct action against assets that President Mugabe owns outside of Zimbabwe.
Mr President, my speaking time is too restricted to describe the fate of a country for which, for so many years, the situation was in fact quite hopeful, but which for the past couple of years has been on a slippery slope towards greater underdevelopment, whilst the population of Zimbabwe is highly developed.
The population is knowledgeable despite the fact that the opposition was prevented from taking part in the election propaganda in a normal way, at least as far as the official media is concerned.
The events of Zimbabwe compel us, however, to consider the relationship between democracy and values, and this may be the right forum for that, as we refer to the EU as a society of values.
The philosopher and theologian, Niebuhr, once said that a person' s sense of what is right makes democracy possible, but his inclinations in the opposite direction make democracy absolutely necessary.
They also augur extremely well for the European Union' s future cooperation with that country.
There are many things that now seem possible or, in any event, easier, between us.
The report drawn up by the mission led by Mr Schori, the thoroughness of whose work I must emphasis once again, as did Commissioners Patten and Nielsen, provides us with a perfectly clear and impartial analysis of the way in which Zimbabwe' s legislative elections were held.
The electoral situation was particularly tense, not to say violent.
The benefit of this mission in this regard, as in many others, is undeniable.
The Council Presidency is delighted at the generally smooth running of these elections, even if, here and there, the voting conditions might have left us rather perplexed and the mission' s conclusions on this matter are extremely enlightening.
The Council Presidency fully supports the Commission' s analysis of the need to cooperate with Zimbabwe.
It is crucial that European aid has a direct bearing on the economic and social problems that are besetting the people of Zimbabwe.
Community funds must now be released, as Commissioner Nielsen suggested.
For its part, the Government of Zimbabwe must also move forward and fulfil its commitments to land reform, to respect for court judgements and to economic transparency.
I am convinced that this process needs to ensure the stabilisation of the country and also its democratic involvement in regional integration.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Firstly, the point must be made quite forcefully that the existence of organised criminal networks, as well as the scale of professional smuggling, which is contemptible but lucrative, plays a central role in illegal immigration, both in increasing the flows themselves and in the methods for smuggling people, of which the tragedy at Dover is an extreme example.
This point must be emphasised in order to respond to those who say that it is immigration control that creates illegal immigrants.
Police Chiefs have identified a Russian mafia, exploiting Sri Lankans and Chinese, and a Turkish mafia is taking charge of Kurds, Afghans and Iranians.
The fact that many of these illegal immigrants are concentrated in Calais, a bridging post for the United Kingdom - more than 10 000 have been arrested since August 1999 - shows the extremely active nature of the smugglers: 400 of them have been arrested since August 1999.
Since it is easier, more lucrative and less risky than other forms of trafficking, such as drug trafficking, for example, trafficking in illegal immigrants is becoming a major issue in police and judicial action and cooperation.
Non-lawful immigration or the trafficking in human beings is a new form of slavery that cannot be tolerated in our democratic societies.
We know, for example, that in order to use the services of a smuggler, it costs a Chinese national between EUR 10 000 and EUR 20 000 and years of illegal work to repay this debt.
The rhetoric of calling for a massive opening up of immigration for work or for the automatic right of residence for all immigrants only feeds this dream of Europe and helps to push hundreds of thousands of people every year into the clutches of criminal networks working in illegal immigration.
The Council is determined to implement all necessary measures to combat this odious trafficking.
Since 1995, France has had a central office for the prevention of illegal immigration and employment, which has greatly enhanced its action in breaking up criminal networks in the last two years.
Given the reality of the trade in human beings and of the traffic in illegal immigration, the French Presidency wishes to promote European cooperation, based on the conclusions of the Tampere Summit and on the following principles: co-development, the integration of foreigners, the fight against illegal immigration and the common policy on Asia.
The Council must base its action on the guidelines adopted at Tampere and I quote: "The European Union needs a comprehensive approach to migration addressing political, human rights and development issues in countries and regions of origin and transit" .
Migratory movements are actually due to numerous factors: demographic differences between the North and the South, the continual increase in inequalities of income and wealth between the richest and poorest countries, the instability of certain political situations and the often false image that immigrants have of what a future in Europe might hold for them.
The whole purpose of co-development is to link up these countries' policies for development in order to exercise control over migration flows.
France will strive to provide new impetus to this progress towards co-development, making use of its experience in this area.
There are two questions to be answered: how can we encourage the development of local projects, specifically through aid for training and the resettlement of foreigners who wish to return to their mother country in order to contribute to its economic development, and how can this local development contribute to controlling migration flows by stabilising the population?
The study being carried out on these two issues will benefit the future work of the High Level Working Group on Asylum and Immigration, which is today striving to implement the specific measures established in five action plans, covering Morocco and Sri Lanka.
Implementing this priority led to a seminar being held on 6 and 7 July in Paris, in which experts and several Ministers will take part.
The European Union' s second main priority, which was established at Tampere, is to integrate foreign nationals who are legally entitled to be in our countries.
This is an important point with regard to the fight against trafficking in human beings, which feeds off the fact that some foreign nationals in the European Union are on the margins of, or excluded from, society.
This integration requires a firm policy to provide equal economic and social rights and an equally staunch fight against any form of discrimination, particularly in the field of employment.
The French Presidency is planning to hold a seminar in October on this theme, with a view to presenting the Council with a draft text on the harmonisation of permits for extended periods of residence, which is an essential mechanism for integration.
The opportunity to adopt the nationality of Member States is also a fundamental aspect of integrating foreign nationals in Europe, but we realise that, in this area, each country applies its own laws.
The Tampere Council specifically stressed this priority, and I quote: "The European Council stresses the need for more efficient management of migration flows at all their stages.
The Council has urged the forthcoming French Presidency and the Commission to ensure that the Tampere conclusions on this subject are implemented as a matter of urgency.
The French Presidency has already proposed four initiatives to the Council.
The proposed text provides for a minimum fine of EUR 2000.
A second draft framework decision seeks to increase the criminal punishment for aiding the illegal entry or stay in a country.
This text will therefore play an important role in more effectively curbing the traffic in human beings.
The French Presidency' s third initiative was to also submit a draft directive on cooperation in the matter of expulsions.
The purpose of this draft directive is to facilitate the implementation of an expulsion measure passed by one Member State against a foreign national who is not legally entitled to stay, when this measure is taken by any other State, the foreign national having been arrested in their territory.
In its capacity as holder of the Presidency, France has submitted new proposals in this field, specifically an action plan, which the European institutions are about to discuss.
First of all, it is crucial to increase police cooperation in the exchange of information on illegal migration flows and on criminal networks.
As the Feira conclusions emphasise, it is particularly important to develop Europol' s role in curbing the traffic in human beings.
The French Presidency therefore intends immediately to ask Europol to submit a report on the action it has undertaken in this area.
The other aim in the field of police cooperation is to strengthen the rapid warning mechanism, which must be made sufficiently effective to enable Member States to be informed about and to react in good time to events connected with illegal immigration.
Increasing this coordination also involves establishing a network of liaison officers from the Member States in the countries where the immigration originates, in order to improve understanding of particular situations, to control immigration at source, particularly through the checking of travel documents at the point of embarkation at airports.
This whole range of projects, designed to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration, will be the subject of a seminar on criminal networks, which is to be held in Paris on 20 and 21 July, in other words, in a few days' time.
This seminar will bring together high level representatives of the Member States, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the United States, Australia, Canada and Mexico.
Several Ministers from the Member States as well as the heads of various immigration services and border police from Member States will be taking part in this symposium.
I should also like to emphasise the fact that one of the fundamental points resulting from Tampere is the principle of harmonising the right of asylum between Member States.
This is another important tool in the fight against illegal immigration.
The right to asylum is frequently used by criminal networks as a legal tool to make the entry into a country and the stay there easier for illegal immigrants.
The main difficulty in our task is therefore the need to reconcile this fundamental right to asylum, which is recognised in international conventions, with the fight against fraud.
The Summit conclusions state that "this system should include, in the short term, a clear and workable determination of the State responsible for the examination of an asylum application, common standards for a fair and efficient asylum procedure, and common minimum conditions of reception of asylum seekers" .
We must also rapidly attain the objective of a fair and efficient asylum system in Europe.
There is therefore an urgent need to harmonise the conditions of reception for asylum seekers, in order to limit internal flows into European Union territory and thereby achieve a more balanced division between Member States.
We hope to reach our first conclusions at next December' s Council, so that we can contribute to the preparation of the Commission' s draft directive, which is planned for the beginning of 2001.
The Council is therefore determined to use all necessary means to fight against the traffic in human beings and to do so in accordance with the Tampere and Feira conclusions.
The Commission wishes to reiterate the fact that the framework for such a policy was established by the Tampere European Council and that precise deadlines have been set for implementing it, both by the Treaty of Amsterdam and the European Council itself.
If such a policy is to have a lasting effect, it must form part of the overall approach defined at Tampere, which requires both a more efficient management of migration flows and the development of partnerships with the countries of origin and transit, the establishment of a common asylum system and the guarantee of fair treatment for nationals of third countries who are legally resident in Member States' territory.
A deadline, which runs up to the end of this year, has been set for the formal adoption of the legislative instruments that will enable the main players in this kind of trafficking to be punished.
This does not only involve monitoring the European Union' s points of entry, but also monitoring what is happening within our Member States, particularly with regard to the illegal labour market.
Furthermore, the traffic in human beings in particular must be curbed, since it involves trafficking in women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation, which is a specific feature of the traffic in human beings in general.
The Commission also urges Member States to increase their cooperation with Interpol, so that this body is able to make full use of all its resources in the fight against organised crime in this area.
In this respect, we wish to emphasise the importance of the conference to be held by the French Presidency on 20 and 21 July in Paris, which the Minister has just mentioned.
All means should be investigated in order to facilitate administrative cooperation, following the example of the Odysseus programme, a third of whose projects that have been retained for 2000 are already contributing to the fight against illegal immigration.
Within the framework of cooperation with countries and regions of origin and transit in general, particular attention must be paid both to combating poverty and to respect for human rights.
We should consider the option of increasing the appropriations that have been earmarked for this purpose in the preliminary draft budget for 2001.
In addition to this, forms of closer cooperation could be considered for applicant countries, particularly in the areas of training, equipment, and the exchange of information on criminal networks.
With this in mind, we feel that it is important to develop cooperation agreements between Europol and the police forces in applicant countries as quickly as possible.
The proposals that the Commission has already submitted concerning the European Refugee Fund and temporary protection, as well as the launch of the process of revising the Dublin Convention, should be swiftly followed up by other initiatives on the procedures and conditions for the reception of asylum-seekers.
The Commission is in the process of evaluating the report by the European Parliament on its communication on a common procedure in order to present, before the end of this year, a legislative initiative on a common procedure for asylum in Europe.
As was said at Tampere, the whole purpose of the exercise is to achieve, in the medium term, a common definition of refugee status and, to complement this, other subsidiary forms of protection.
Mr President, it is a tragedy that it has taken the deaths of another 58 people to get the problem of trafficking firmly on the international, political agenda.
The Dover disaster has once again opened our eyes to the unscrupulous practices of traffickers in human beings and to the powerlessness - or should that be unwillingness? - on the part of the European Union to stamp out this disgraceful type of exploitation.
Trafficking in human beings has grown into a bigger business than trafficking in drugs, according to The Economist last week.
Organised crime has discovered that this business is not only more profitable, there is less risk involved too.
This internationalisation of organised crime is in stark contrast to the inability of the EU Member States to adopt a coordinated approach in dealing with the trafficking in human beings.
In our resolution, we at least call for the application of the principle of solidarity and make a few very specific proposals for far-reaching cooperation in the fight against the trafficking in human beings.
Mr President, I would also like to begin my intervention by saying that my sentiments about the Dover catastrophe are deeply felt.
Having said this, I am sure, as Commissioner Vitorino has said, that the European Union needs a common policy in order to manage the legal entry of immigrants - bearing in mind our economic, social and demographic situation - in a reasonable way, preventing arbitrary treatment and, above all, turning to legal immigration avenues instead of traffickers in human beings.
We also have the responsibility - and I would like to highlight this - to apply laws which already exist in the whole of the European Union and which regulate our labour market.
Because that is what it comes down to: each time a policy is announced, but this time, we need to do something about it, because we know that the trafficking in human beings simply continues.
But I would like to point out something else.
The heads of government themselves, under the leadership of President Chirac, who were here this morning, could chip in straight away.
When they meet in Nice, they could abolish the right of veto in European justice policy.
Thirdly, how the current policies of the European Union and its Member States help to create refugees.
We need to examine the consequences of our policies on, for example, trade, its rules and terms and who we will trade with, the conduct of companies based in the European Union and their operations in other countries such as Nigeria, the arms sales by Member States to repressive regimes.
Mr President, 58 Chinese immigrants who arrived at Dover, in the hope of a better life, have died in horrific conditions, surrounded by crates of tomatoes.
Let us not forget Yagine and Fodé, the two boys from Guinea, who wanted to see Brussels last summer.
Fourteen Kurds died of asphyxiation in the hold of a burning ship in Patras.
The debate that has opened as a result of the Dover tragedy has focused on the traffic in human beings and the eradication of the mafias that organise the criminal networks.
As a result, in France, Chinese illegal immigrants are forced to work for years in sweat-shops to pay for their journey.
The dogma of liberal globalisation has magnified the free movement of goods and capital, but is seeking to stop the free movement of people.
It is true that the free movement established by the European Union is a fundamental right, but this is reserved for its own nationals.
All of these factors have simply created new forms of illegal immigration.
A seminar is certainly a good idea, Minister, but it should cover a common immigration policy based on the principle of freedom of movement, improving rights... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the horrific death of 58 Chinese illegal immigrants, discovered by British customs officers at Dover, highlights, above all, the scale of the pressure that migration is exerting on the countries of Europe.
In a case which is so typical, the best possible response we can provide is to combat illegal immigration and particularly the mafia-type organisations behind this new form of trafficking in human beings.
We are rather shocked to hear the words of Commissioner Vitorino, who, on 20 June, on the subject of the Dover tragedy, said that this, amongst other events, was proof of the need for a genuine policy on admission and integration, which makes a definitive break with the fantasy of zero immigration.
On behalf of the Council, Minister, you informed us that the immigration policy and the fight against crimes related to illegal immigration are two separate issues.
Minister, I believe that Parliament may be able to take a stance on this matter which opposes what you have said today.
There are outbreaks of violence and xenophobia all over Europe and, while here we are talking about a new globalised economic society and a new information society, we do not realise that organised crime, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation and drug-trafficking have also become globalised.
That is to say, we are talking about a new form of criminality and human slavery which reminds us of the pre-abolitionist era in the United States.
This is the responsibility of some very important international organisations and there is a desperate need for international cooperation to combat one of the most shameful violations of human rights; international cooperation of European police forces and judges with police and judges in the countries where the migrants come from, who also have responsibility for the problem.
Minister, Commissioner, you have truly disappointed me.
The Tampere conclusions make a clear call for the Commission to submit a report on the implementation of the conclusions of the High Level Working Group on Asylum and Immigration for the consideration of the European Council in December 2000.
This means that, in six months, you will have to draw up a report on what you have achieved.
We talk and talk, draft and produce texts and can be very low, very pessimistic, but it is the first time that we are talking at global level and that something is being done to solve the problem.
Realistic in the sense that practice and theory are two different things.
Chinese girls, and women, in particular, are more communicative than men, because I have the impression that women are less fearful when it comes to this kind of thing.
We will overcome illegal trafficking when we tackle the causes of the gap between rich and poor countries, when we practise a policy of cooperation and development which allows everyone to live as a citizen of the world.
Indeed I am delighted whenever the Council Presidency comes up with fresh proposals, and a great many proposals have also been produced on this occasion which are to be welcomed.
There have been a whole host of individual measures where the second measure has often been put in place before the first, instead of the other way around.
I am even tempted to suggest that they might use things like the Echelon system to start fighting against these traffickers, but that might be rather provocative in view of the vote coming up on Thursday.
The second element is the provision of legal residence for foreign nationals and, from this point of view, I do not think that a policy of zero immigration is right for Europe.
The third and last element consists of combating illegal immigration, and particularly criminal networks.
Under our Presidency, we have the opportunity to build on the proposals presented in this debate.
I am thinking in particular of the proposal by Commissioner Vitorino on readmission agreements with the countries of origin, such as China, for example, with regard to making the trafficking in human beings for purposes of sexual exploitation a specific crime.
We have planned an informal Council meeting, a Justice and Home Affairs Council, for the end of this month, in Marseilles, and, to that end, we have tabled this issue on the agenda.
We carried out these measures in the six months following Tampere, in compliance with the deadline adopted under the scoreboard that the Commission presented to the Council.
The Commission is not behind schedule, and although this is a complex debate, it is under way, both in Parliament and in the Council.
You said that my speech did not match the deadline that was set for the end of this year, so that the Nice European Council can evaluate the policy on asylum and immigration.
With regard to this point, I suggest that you look more closely at which deadlines we are in fact discussing.
Nice has the task of undertaking a preliminary evaluation of the work of the High Level Working Group on Asylum and Immigration.
This is a deadline that was set at Tampere for the approval of a legislative instrument which establishes common definitions, common incriminations and common punishments for trafficking in human beings, and specifically for trafficking in women and children for purposes of sexual exploitation.
I therefore think that we are indeed putting forward initiatives and I am counting on the support both of the Council and Parliament to be able to conclude these legislative procedures within the deadlines that have been fixed.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, at 12 noon. 1998 discharge (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the 1998 discharge.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you will be aware, this morning' s joint debate on granting discharge to the Commission was not closed, since we still had to hear Commissioner Schreyer' s final speech.
Mrs Morgan asked me whether the Commission was still prepared to answer questions on this.
Of course the Commission is willing to do so and I am in fact confident, Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, that in this respect too, we will be able to find a way of completing the exchange of information in such a way that there are no disagreements or differences of opinion.
This is a demand that the Committee on Budgetary Control has just put to Parliament, the Commission and of course the Council.
On behalf of the Commission, I would again like to thank you for this morning' s debate and also for the constructive criticism, and I would like to reassure you once again that the Commission will take steps - some of which it has already taken - to guarantee more effective implementation of the budget of the European Union.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Schreyer.
The debate is closed.
It was better because it was more rigorous, more transparent and more rational.
It was better because it established the promotion of employment as a factor to be taken into consideration when selecting potential projects.
The work under the conciliation procedure added further improvements to the LIFE III regulation and we can say quite simply that, although we lost on the issue of comitology, we managed to get our views across on the essential issues.
With regard to the budget for the period 2000-2004, which was the main issue at stake, we would clearly have preferred to agree on an amount closer to EUR 850 million - the sum proposed by the European Parliament - than the EUR 613 million set by the Commission and the Council.
Nevertheless, as they say, politics is the art of the possible, and if we had not agreed, as we finally did in conciliation, on an amount of EUR 640 million, we would have ended up bearing the political responsibility for leaving thousands of projects in limbo and without financial support for the year 2000.
The concept of relationships with nature is changing radically in our own time.
With this in mind, the European Union has pioneered legislation in the field of environmental protection and has also been a key partner in international negotiations and agreements on the global protection of the planet.
The transposition of European directives into national legislation has played and continues to play a crucial role in all our countries, particularly Portugal.
The LIFE programme is just one financial instrument at the service of the European Union' s environmental policies and of those of its neighbouring countries in the Baltic, the Mediterranean and in Eastern Europe.
Having experienced many vicissitudes and a period of paralysis with regard to the projects financed by this programme, the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament finally formalised an agreement specifically on a budgetary framework of EUR 640 million for the period 2000-2004.
I also wish to welcome the agreement reached by the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament on the framework directive on water, an instrument that is crucial for the European Union' s environmental policy.
Mr President, the European LIFE programme is the key European Union initiative to integrate environmental measures into the broad ambit of European Union policies.
The Union as a political entity has a moral and legal obligation to ensure that a clean environment is protected and promoted under Article 130 of the Maastricht Treaty.
In fact between1992 and 1992 the LIFE initiative cofinanced nearly 1600 projects with a total Community contribution of approximately EUR 2.1 billion.
I also welcome the fact that the Member States have allocated an increase of EUR 27 million for the new LIFE programme for the next five years and that the overall budgetary allocation made to the LIFE programme will be in the region of EUR 640 million.
Mr President, the European Union' s environmental policy never ceases to amaze me.
The LIFE programme, with its EUR 640 million budgetary allocation, is far from being a model of transparency, leading us to question the proper use of public funds.
In February I proposed - in vain - that the funds used in land purchase should be set aside for public structures, as in our view, public money should not be used as private real estate capital, even under the guise of environmental protection.
The Commission also shares this view and in its clarification of the eligibility criteria regarding expenditure within the framework of the Structural Funds SEM 2000 stated that, 'the purchase of land is the responsibility of a public institution or an organisation that is subject to public law' .
I also put forward six other specific proposals that would be easy to implement, in order to limit local disputes and justify the proper use of public monies.
The original Commission proposal dates back to December 1998.
It will be used to set up the Natura 2000 network - another measure that has your support - and it will promote the incorporation of environmental interests in land utilisation planning, as well as promote environmental projects in the Mediterranean and Baltic regions.
The programme extends over a number of years (2000 to 2004), and the financial allocation was increased from EUR 613 million to EUR 640 million under the conciliation procedure.
In the course of the conciliation negotiations there were also discussions about the committees that are supporting the Commission in the implementation of the programme, and on behalf of the Commission, I would draw your attention at this point to the fact that, in our view, the provisions of the corresponding Council decision were not applied correctly, which is why the Commission duly submitted a statement to this effect at the end of the procedure.
This meeting is due to take place on 20 July.
The new interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and the improvement of the budgetary procedure, which was concluded on 6 May last, have revised our old ad hoc procedure.
We are in possession of the Commission' s draft budget, and our motion will contain advice for the Council on its first reading of the budget.
One of our main priorities was, is, and remains support for the peace and stability process in the Balkans.
In addition, as early as December last year, we drew up a joint declaration, together with the Council, during our last second reading.
However we do not think that we should finance our aid to Kosovo and the Balkans simply by carrying out a multiannual redeployment of our traditional priorities in external policy, and making cutbacks in our cooperation with developing countries and in the aid we deliver to the poorest of the poor.
Consequently, we are expecting the Council to enter into constructive negotiations with us to this end, and hope to reach a conclusion before the Council' s first reading.
Last year, Parliament fought tooth and nail for heading 1b.
As far as the fisheries agreements are concerned, we are expecting that as in previous ad hoc procedures, the Commission will submit updated, realistic figures before Parliament' s first reading that we will then be able to take into account.
We expect the Council to take account of our deliberations and decisions in those of its own.
First of all, the European budget comes off worse compared to other major continents because there is less public funding available here compared to those other continents.
Amendment No 20 concerns innovative measures.
The appropriation must be kept at the level decided at Berlin.
The importance of innovation was stressed both at the Lisbon and Feira summits.
The Commission and the Member States should also simplify and speed up administration procedures relating to Structural Funds.
Mr President, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy are enthusiastic supporters of the common foreign and security policy, and we are also supporters of these Special Envoys which, at the moment, are inscribed in the Commission' s budget.
For if the Council definitely wants these appropriations to appear in the Council' s budget, there is, of course, the possibility of the Council' s, in return, entering into a type of inter-institutional agreement with ourselves here in Parliament, whereby the Council promises to give us the same information, control, inspection facilities etc as if the appropriations had appeared in the Commission' s budget.
It certainly is the case that, with the move to activity-based budgeting, we are moving away from the concept that everything that was previously in the budget has to be preserved for the future.
I want to reiterate our commitment in the research area.
I recognise that this is not a matter that is affected by the budget on this occasion, but we should not ignore the changes we are seeing in the energy sphere with Save and Altener.
The figures that we see are seeing for Save, where there is a significant reduction in the budget for energy efficiency schemes, are a result of the budgetary process last year.
This includes developing markets for financial services, providing risk capital, but also giving special attention to female entrepreneurship, as has already been called for by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in the guidelines.
We wanted more money for employment and we wanted to gather more experience of similar projects over three years so as to be able to subsequently arrive at a legal basis.
Hence there are, of course, no possible circumstances under which we would endorse the Commission' s decision on this, simply because, as a Commission, you have run out of ideas at the moment for promoting innovative measures in the Social Fund.
It is equally unacceptable and completely incomprehensible that the Commission wants to make drastic cutbacks of 32% and 18% respectively in the budget headings for the action plans against social exclusion and discrimination, even though social coherence in the European Union is precisely what we are always calling for, and only this morning we again had an extensive debate on the anti-discrimination package.
Mr President, the Committee on Fisheries has been calling for the strengthening of the common fisheries policy on an international level as well.
As draftsperson of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to express my satisfaction with the Committee on Budgets' support for our proposals on the international fishing organisations and agreements.
In an increasingly globalised world, the Union must increase its presence in these organisations which regulate offshore fishing, for reasons of prestige, good management of resources and, above all, the defence of the interests of our industry and our workers.
My second point concerns the international agreements.
This is by far the European Union' s most important agreement in this area and our main priority: five hundred boats, thousands of fishermen out of work and many economically paralysed areas depend on its renewal.
Mr President, first of all I would like to express my gratitude to the Committee on Budgets for their sound cooperation.
We are prepared to make do with reducing spending to the 2000 level and thus cancel out the cut-backs which the Commission proposed in favour of financing Kosovo.
This morning, we talked about the 1998 discharge.
As you will see just from these examples, what we need to know goes well beyond the discussion on financing the Western Balkans.
In fact, it would be a mistake for the European Parliament to reduce the discussion of the 2001 budget to this one issue.
If you look at the Haug report, Parliament wants to find a solution.
We are actually looking for agreement with the Council on the way to get a good budget by the end of this year.
It is pretty hard to get an agreement when the Council just ignores Article 20 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
And that will be at the forefront of our discussions at the trialogue this week and in the conciliation on 20 July.
Whatever the Council votes on 20 July we will still be making that point in the autumn when it comes to our first reading.
From the very first trialogue of this year with the Portuguese Presidency, the one thing that was obvious to everyone is that we need an agreement between the three institutions on the funding for the western Balkans.
The Council's position is about 200 million less than ours, which means that we will not get an agreement on that and unless we have an agreement there is going to be a problem in how we fund the needs in category 4.
For an institution that tells us that what was agreed in Berlin was set in concrete, I think the Council has a bit of a cheek in moving large sums of money from the MEDA programme which they agreed 12 months ago and then lecturing us about what can and cannot be moved.
Having said that, we are of course, prepared to listen to the Council, to hear what their suggestions are and I look forward to our trialogue this week and the conciliation meeting on 20 July.
The report under discussion concerns Parliament' s provisional position on the budget in the conciliation talks that are to be held.
EUR 1.9 billion has already been found for the programme; of the remainder, EUR 1.4 billion would be found by the reallocation of Category 4 funds, and 1.8 billion by moving funds from the section of the budget dealing with agriculture.
In addition, the future needs of agriculture are hard to estimate, as the Agenda 2000 reforms are only just starting and the WTO talks are in their elementary stages.
The Commission' s proposal for the CARDS programme is explicit and our group supports it.
EU Member States have to bear the responsibility for the reconstruction of the Balkans, as most of them were keen supporters of the military action there, and many also took part in it.
This is stated in point 3 of Mrs Haug' s report.
The Council is responsible for the reconstruction of the Balkans.
For the first time since the Berlin Agreement, negotiations will take place in the Council before first reading regarding a possible review of the financial perspective.
My groups welcomes this development.
At the same time the reconstruction of Kosovo, after the illegal war there, is being financed at the expense of other countries receiving aid, in a way that is improper and dishonest.
Our group supports the former position expressed by Parliament, according to which the Council must agree to amend the financial perspectives, particularly with regard to Category 4.
Furthermore, the granting of discharge must also concern a common foreign and security policy.
Firstly, the budget with its EUR 93 million in payment appropriations represents a 5% increase, whereas national budgets are subject to greater austerity.
We are witnessing the continued, and wholly scandalous, misappropriation of EUR 300 million of agricultural funds for the reconstruction of Kosovo, as though the Balkans formed part of the CAP!
Over the past 20 years, non-essential expenditure has increased from 5% to more than 45% of the total budget expenditure without any modification to the Treaties.
In other words, the revolution that looks set to take place in European affairs over the coming ten years is not an institutional one but a budgetary and tax one.
Mr President, Budget 2001 must not be to the detriment of agriculture.
This will impinge on us all.
The principle of financing the poor at the expense of other poor people has no place in Europe.
On the other hand, the implementation figures for programmes outside the European Union are very poor and in some cases this is the fault of third countries and in others, the majority of cases, it is the fault of the Commission.
What is clear is that the budgetary implementations do not match the effort made in recent years to introduce these programmes into the budget.
To sum up, I would like to say that Terence Wynn' s position seems to me to be very coherent.
It is clear that nobody is managing to give a reliable estimate of what is needed in Kosovo.
As the former MEP, Lord Tomlinson, said, there is nothing more expensive than a meal amongst Foreign Affairs Ministers: they are always ready to promise money without considering where it will come from.
I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to topple Pinochet, the European Community spent EUR 10 million.
Our contribution to the campaign against Pinochet in the referendum was EUR 10 million.
We are simply dealing with a case of budgetary procedure in the field of non-obligatory expenditure and, therefore, the most that could be said would be that the Council has not complied with Article 20 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
Mr President, I am grateful for this opportunity to make some general comments about the 2001 Budget.
In respect of the fisheries budget, I note that an increase of over 27% is proposed in the funding of international agreements.
These are the southern agreements with third countries which enable EU vessels to fish in the waters of Morocco, Mauritania, Argentina and elsewhere.
I must remind the House that these agreements currently cost EU taxpayers EUR 269 million a year and are primarily of benefit to the fishing fleets of Spain, Portugal and France.
These southern agreements are always calculated on a cash-for-fish basis while northern agreements on the other hand are arranged on a reciprocal basis.
Let us make sure the budget is for all EU citizens and not just for the southern EU Member States.
To reiterate the point once again, the Commission proposal provides for an increase of 5% in the payment appropriations, and an increase of 3.9% in the commitment appropriations.
It was not easy to achieve this outcome because the additional requirements for the Stability Pact had to be accommodated and Agenda 2000 involved adopting a very high growth rate in respect of agricultural policy.
This is where the Council, unlike the Commission, is proposing a reduced package of EUR 400 million in commitment appropriations.
The Commission considers this proposal to be lacking in the necessary political foresight, in view of the tasks we have before us on the external policy front.
The Commission has pointed out that aid for Bosnia is being cut, for example, and that Albania and Montenegro have not exactly been generously provided for in terms of appropriations, on the contrary, only one commitment is being honoured in our view.
There is another point I would like to make on behalf of the Commission, and it concerns the field of external policy.
We have proposed that EUR 30 million be earmarked in the 2001 Budget for the Rapid Reaction Fund, which is used for non-military crisis prevention.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union provides that the presidency shall consult the European Parliament on key issues and fundamental decisions with regard to the common foreign and security policy, and ensure that account is duly taken of the views of the European Parliament.
This is particularly true as regards recent developments in common foreign and security policy as a result of the Feira European Council and with a view to the one in Nice.
As regards the flexibility of the second pillar, perhaps you will allow the presidency to take the Intergovernmental Conference in hand, which it will do following the 'General Affairs Council' next Monday, 10 July.
Question No 2 by (H-0519/00): Subject: Transport of water from France to Spain and the sustainable management of water resources France is understood to be intending to launch an aqueduct scheme for transporting water from the Rhône to Barcelona, with the participation of the Lyonnaise water company.
The water is apparently intended to be used to develop irrigated intensive farming in Catalonia.
It was adopted recently through a conciliation procedure on 29 June 2000.
It sets out the basic principles for a sustainable water policy in the European Union based on the principles enshrined in the Treaty, for example those relating to precautionary, preventative and corrective action by according priority to the source of the threats to the environment, as well as the polluter-pays principle.
The project is designed to ensure that these water sources are maintained in good condition through a series of measures that Member States are to implement according to a specific timetable.
With regard to her other comments, I should again like to reiterate my final remarks when I said that we must ensure that all initiatives of this type are subject to a socio-economic and environmental assessment as a matter of course.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there have been fears expressed repeatedly in connection with the reading of the framework directive on water, that it could be possible later on in the EU to transport water from one Member State to another against the wishes of the first country.
The regulation should also aim at technological neutrality, with the rules that govern communication services being as far as possible independent of the technology implemented to provide these services.
The key element in this commitment is the dialogue that the European Union has established with China in relation to human rights.
In spite of some progress achieved in improving the legal system with regard to economic and social rights, little progress has been achieved on the ground, particularly in the area of civil and political rights.
It has been agreed that the European Union would continue to publicly express its concerns on the human rights situation in China and raise such matters in meetings with China at all levels.
In addition, the Council has agreed that the European Union will adopt a firm stance with regard to the motion for a resolution on human rights in China, presented by the United States at the 56th session of the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
Should the motion for a resolution be put to the vote, the Council has agreed that the Member States that are part of this commission would vote in favour of it.
It is very good to welcome a former colleague into a new elevated office but let me remind you Mr Moscovici, of the frustration which we experienced as parliamentarians trying to question the Council.
I believe the response of the EU in Geneva was appalling.
Furthermore, I am from a country which suffered an unexpected defeat, like other Members present.
Question No 5 by Ioannis Souladakis (H-0536/00): Subject: Improvement in the export capacities of the countries of South-Eastern Europe The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe is a political choice made by the European Union to which it has given a very high priority.
The European Union supports the idea that the deepening of international trade should, in the long term, replace the dependence on foreign aid and that trade integration should constitute one of the main facets of greater integration in the longer term for the countries of south-eastern Europe in the Euro-Atlantic structures.
The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe is generally designed to help the countries of the region attain stability and economic prosperity.
The importance of liberalising and facilitating trade between the countries of the region, and also between these countries and the European Union, was highlighted, by both donors and recipients, at the regional conference on Pact funding held in Brussels at the end of March this year.
In all areas covered by the Stability Pact, and therefore also in the economic and trade areas, reciprocal commitments between donors and recipients remain the key to the Stability Pact' s success.
The commitment expressed by the countries of the region to implement reforms and generate the right climate for sustainable economic progress lies at the very heart of the Pact.
In other words, what policies will strengthen production in these regions without the European Union's having to pay out money which, due in part to internal problems, it is having trouble finding anyway.
Resolution 1284, adopted on 17 December 1999, is aimed at recommencing UN inspections and, at the same time, improve the so-called "oil for food" programme" , and finally lifting the sanctions against Iraq.
The European Union urges the Iraqi Government to cooperate fully with the UN and its supporting bodies.
The Council notes that since 1998 no checks have been carried out to see whether Iraq is in fact complying with the wholly relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular Resolution 687.
However, as the panel of experts presided by Ambassador Amorim noted in April 1999, the Iraqi population would not have suffered such privations had the measures taken in 1991 by the Security Council not had to have been extended.
The Council noted that the United Nations Security Council, in its Resolution 1302, invited the UN Secretary General to appoint independent experts to draw up an in-depth study on the humanitarian situation in Iraq.
I asked the question because there is a certain sensitivity in France to this issue.
I have listened to the President-in-office's formal reply; however, we all know full well that the situation in Iraq is connected with the arbitrary policy imposed by the United States.
According to the statistics, the number of people who have lost their life in Iraq since 1990, as a result of the sanctions, now totals 1 309 153.
This is not the time to hold a debate on relations between the Council and Parliament with regard to questions, since that would take up time allotted to Question Time.
In any event, this debate can be held in the Conference of Presidents, which deals with these relations and any incidents which may occur.
To come back to the question raised, Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union lays down that Union policy under this article does not impact on the specific nature of the security and defence policy of some Member States, including non-allied Member States.
Similarly, the policy observes the obligations of the North Atlantic Treaty with regard to those Member States who consider that their common defence is provided within the framework of NATO, and it is compatible with the common security and defence policy established within this framework.
After Amsterdam, the European Union undertook a process aimed at enabling it to take all of the measures needed to play a role in the areas of conflict prevention and crisis management, measures that are defined in the Treaty on European Union and known as the Petersburg tasks, without prejudice to the position of the Member States as regards their membership or non-membership of NATO or the WEU.
Question No 8 by (H-0545/00): Subject: Priorities of the French Presidency as regards the advancement of women What specific measures will the French Presidency be putting forward as its priorities for the advancement of women in Europe?
Mrs Nicole Péry, my colleague and Secretary of State for Women' s Rights, will outline next week the French presidency' s programme in this area to your committee responsible.
My intention here is to simply give a few brief details.
Firstly, the Commission has just sent the Council a communication entitled 'Towards a Community framework strategy for sexual equality' , also a proposal for a Council decision on a support programme for the community strategy on sexual equality, a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and Council modifying Directive 67/207/EEC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards - and this is crucial - access to jobs, training and vocational training and working conditions.
The French presidency, I stress, has already timetabled the presentation of these Commission texts.
As regards the proposal for a decision relating to a programme on the basis of Article 13 of the Treaty and the fact that the programme is due to start on 1 January 2001, the aim of the presidency is to adopt it during the 'employment and social welfare' council on 28 November.
With regard to the proposal for a directive, the French Presidency shall endeavour to make as much progress as possible.
Apart from these legislative texts, the Council, as in previous years, shall also to consider the implementation of the Beijing action plan by the Member States.
What is more, the French Presidency will organise two events in relation to this: a ministerial conference on 27 October in Paris that will focus on three issues - women and decision-making, reconciling family life and professional life and mainstreaming - as well as a symposium on equality in the workplace on 24 November in Paris that will centre on discrimination in recruitment and the difficulties of returning to work.
You have demonstrated this in your reply.
Question No 9 by (H-0552/00): Subject: Council's views on the Pelinka case in Austria On 1 May 1999, Professor Anton Pelinka commented on the Italian television channel RAI on previous statements made by the Freedom Party's Jörg Haider in connection with national socialism.
Neither is it able to pass judgement on the way a legal institution is run in one of the Member States.
Mr President, I would thank the French presidency for its succinct answer.
Fourteen Member States are planning to ask experts from the Council of Europe to investigate certain states of affairs in Austria.
My first question concerns whether the French presidency considers that this request for an investigation should also apply to the Pelinka case, which would be only reasonable.
My second question concerns Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty, concerning fundamental rights.
There are so-called rules of transmission between Parliament and the Council, which have prevented these questions from arriving today.
I sincerely hope that, with or without translation, things will be sorted out for future part-sessions.
With regard to the other points you raised, as you have understood, the French presidency intends to observe the measures that have already been decided on by the Fourteen.
What is more, I repeat, these measures are of a strictly bilateral nature and do not impact on the fact that Austria is a member of the European Union, with access to all of its institutions and participating in all of its bodies and, throughout our Presidency, will be treated as such.
Parliament will consider this issue, but today we are not going to discuss it further, if the Members agree.
Question No 11 by Maj Britt Theorin (H-0554/00): Subject: International Criminal Court The Commission, and particularly the Commissioner for humanitarian aid, played an important role in the setting-up of the new, permanent International Criminal Court (ICC) in June 1998.
However, to become a reality, the Rome Statute must be ratified by 60 States.
I certainly think the EU ought to be leading the way in creating an international legal system and, when the national legal systems do not function, the international community must be ready to take action against the worst offenders.
Question No 12 by (H-0556/00): Subject: Role of the diamond trade in African wars It is a known fact that the violence in both Sierra Leone and the Great Lakes region is linked to the monopolies on local mineral deposits and the struggles to gain control of those monopolies.
I believe that the problem relating to the trafficking in diamonds, which has cost, and is costing, many lives, deserves much more decisive and firm attention from the Council.
In the case of Sierra Leone, Great Britain had supported the embargo, and France as well, to a certain extent.
The Council could promote a generalised embargo of all diamonds originating in Africa and, above all, the control of certificates.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Question No 13 is one of six questions which the Council will not reply to today because of procedural problems.
As the author is not present, Question No 14 lapses.
Question No 16 by (H-0565/00): Subject: Violations of Cypriot airspace by Turkish fighter-planes Cyprus, a country which is due to join the EU within the next few years, is continuously subjected to Turkish aggression.
Apart from the fact that the Turkish army has occupied 37% of Cypriot territory for 26 consecutive years, Turkey - a candidate for EU membership - disputes the island's status as an independent state on an almost daily basis.
The Council values the principle of sovereignty highly, and in this case can only reiterate its commitment to Resolution 353 of 20 July 1974 of the United Nations Security Council as well as Resolution 3212 of the United Nations General Assembly of 1 November 1974 which requested all States to respect the sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus.
The Council, which supports the efforts of the United Nations Secretary General, expects Turkey, and other countries, to contribute to the success of these negotiations in order to achieve a just and lasting resolution to the Cypriot question.
Encouraged by tolerance and compliance on the part of Europe and the United States, Turkey engaged the other day in a new act of aggressive provocation which could well have been the cause of war between two equally powerful countries.
Minister, I understand your unwillingness to give a clear, spontaneous reaction to Turkey's intolerable conduct in Cyprus.
Your predecessors were equally unwilling to condemn Turkey's conduct in Cyprus outright and, I fear, your successors will take the same approach, now that the American-, but not just the American-inspired formula of two sets of rules for and two attitudes towards Turkey has been adopted, together with the convenient method of taking refuge in pretexts such as the supposedly clear prospect of settling the Cyprus question, which has lasted 26 years now, and the supposedly concomitant need to appease the puppet of Ankara, Mr Denktash.
Question No 17 by (H-0569/00): Subject: Milosevic Over the last few days, a number of media have carried reports that one Member State of the European Union is currently acting as a mediator in an effort to find a 'way out' from the serious situation in Serbia.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed.
The Council' s budget is EUR 6.635 million.
They may be around 45 at first, but that number may later grow to 60 or even 90.
The draft supplementary and amending budget for the European Parliament contains an appropriation of EUR 15 million for an additional prepayment for office space in Brussels.
This will leave a margin in the financial perspectives of EUR 69.1 million.
The Committee on Budgets transferred EUR 38 million of unused funds this year by means of a C6/2000 to fund this office space, the Spinelli building.
As it is very likely that a considerable portion of the appropriations set aside for members' regulations, for example, (which amount to EUR 60 million), will remain unspent, and as more than half the year has now gone by, this ceiling may be reviewed at the end of the year.
The Council' s budget is interesting, as there are appropriations in it for the first time for a common security and defence policy.
Article 28 of the Treaty is unclear, particularly regarding a common security, defence and military policy.
This is firstly because during the trialogue, we all agreed that the budget presented should not be limited to merely returning the balances to the Member States, but should also include expenditure and constitute a genuine supplementary and amending budget.
In the second place, we have made several decisions that can be viewed in a positive light.
We therefore decided to fund it using the margin which totals 21 million in this heading.
We have had a first reading in the Council, this is our first reading, and we should very much like to conclude matters on the basis of this first reading.
In other words, we hope that the Council' s second reading that takes place on 20 July will take up our first reading, if not we shall have to proceed to a second reading.
What is more, I should like to stress another important point in that if we proceed to a second reading, in order to adhere to the strict timetables set, we should have to attend a session in August in order to vote on this SAB at second reading, which is obviously out of the question.
It has always been the rule in Parliament and the other institutions that August is excluded from the timetables set.
Mr President, Commissioner, fellow members, it may only be July, but today, the European Union and the European Parliament come to the Member States bearing gifts in the form of a supplementary budget refunding EUR 3.2 billion to their original owners.
That was why I voted passionately in favour of this transfer of funds, so that these technical problems can be solved once and for all and nothing more can stand in the way of a successful European security and defence policy.
However, we must find this 20 million by squeezing the margin dry.
Mr President, the rapporteur has already explained the SAB is asking to approve two separate sums of money.
I would like to raise three issues about this.
Secondly, I understand there is a gentlemen's agreement according to which the European Parliament and the Council agreed not to interfere with each other's budget.
Thirdly, I am not satisfied with the use of the SAB as an instrument for this because these extra needs were foreseen prior to the conclusion of the budgetary process last year and should have been incorporated in this year's budget.
In accordance with the spirit of the gentlemen's agreement, I will not comment on the need for 45 military personnel in the building.
The point I wish to raise here is that Council must apply the same sort of budgetary rigour to its administrative expenditure as it expects of other institutions.
And I would like some reassurance in the future that this expenditure will be spent in the most efficient and economic way possible.
On Parliament's request for the extra 15 million for the additional advance payment for the new building in Brussels, although it can be identified as a prudent step which will allow considerable savings in the future, I am concerned about the messages that this may convey.
The first proposed amending budget relates to the Commission's budget.
While the extra 15 million granted by Parliament is to be used to pay off the buildings early, thereby saving interest in the future, the extra Council expenditure will give rise to further expenditure in the future because other buildings will be rented in Brussels to house sectors such as the security policy.
The funding for the UNMIK high representative in Kosovo and Bosnia has been amended and EUR 11 million will now be provided.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
First, the Union citizens' right to freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services has so far only been partially implemented.
The Treaty contains rules on transparency and clarity in this respect but it also allows the Member States to make their own decision here.
We note that, in the countries in which regulators have been introduced, not only large consumers, but also medium-sized and small consumers can take better part in the market and the conditions for using the grid are clearer.
Commissioner, Madam Vice-president, I have two comments to make on this.
That is an important point in this process.
We hope to discuss with the Commission in committee exactly how imports of gas and electricity from the Central and Eastern European countries are to be dealt with, because we do not want to damage our own gas and electricity market in Europe by accepting different safety standards or the wrong competition terms.
Finally, in the case of electricity, transmission system operators have formed an association and it was with the help of this association that results were achieved in Florence.
Since the first directive on its liberalisation was adopted in 1996, and the second in 1998, there has been a significant fall in prices, especially in the countries in which those directives have been most strictly applied.
The two directives were very carefully calculated to ensure that there would not be huge and sudden job losses - approximately 250,000 jobs have been lost in this sector, with more to come - and secondly to allow those Member States which had invested heavily in, for example, nuclear energy to do some strategic planning and not leave them with too much in the way of stranded costs.
Those which delayed were wrong, especially those which at the same time took advantage of the opening of markets elsewhere and we have evidence that this also applies to countries outside the European Union.
I have said that the job losses were very considerable.
The question of public service obligations is mentioned several times in the report.
The Socialist Group has put forward an amendment asking for a framework directive ensuring that in sectors like energy services of general interest are protected.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the great care he has taken over this report.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that our proposal on laying down a detailed schedule, in the course of which clearly defined goals would need to be accomplished, is important if we are eventually to achieve gradual, yet full, liberalisation of the energy market.
I would also like to emphasise that the concept of public service and of the public good must go hand-in-hand with liberalization.
I am referring to social and environmental concerns which this Parliament has always supported but which are not yet sufficiently articulated in the energy sector with reference to the single market.
It is particularly regrettable that liberalization has gone hand-in-hand with a negative impact on energy saving.
I have discussed this with Commissioner Monti.
He is a powerful Commissioner and even he is unwilling to tackle some of the Member States head on in this regard.
Mr President, this report again demonstrates that liberalisation, the free market and competition are currently seen as the universal panacea to nearly every economic and other problem.
However, the fact that the prices of some other forms of energy have spiralled is passed over in modest silence.
It is hard to over-estimate the importance of this process to the competitiveness of our European economies in the widest sense.
I know that in the short term it may be difficult to prove that but I am quite sure that in the long term this is a vital part of making our economies competitive in the wider world.
I also believe that it is very important for us to distinguish between the processes of market efficiency that liberalization implies and other policy objectives that we may wish to achieve, such as the question of universal supply, such as the aims to reduce CO2 and it is very important to keep those two distinct and separate.
Personally, when I think in terms of 'energy' I think of security of supply in the long term, the guarantee of public service missions and the contribution to sustainable and environmentally friendly development.
Mr Mombaur, unlike you, I do not have blind and absolute confidence in market mechanisms.
This is because, and this is something I should like to stress, public service in energy is a factor in social cohesion, the fight against exclusion, balanced regional development, respect for the environment, security and lastly a prerequisite for national and European independence.
Experience in other areas such as telecom shows that Member States respond better to this incentive and I hope that the Commission will elaborate a specific timetable for liberalization in the months to come.
Mr President, the report on the Commission' s second report to the Council and the European Parliament on progress in liberalising energy markets only takes account of two aspects, namely competition and the deepening of the internal energy market.
In our view, only genuine public and democratic regulation would make it possible to rationalise both the production and use of energy while ensuring respect for the environment and basic equalisation.
This would constitute the first step towards a European public service that met the needs of today' s users and employees.
When you talk with them about liberalisation, they say, 'We are happy to have liberalisation, but it should be the same for everyone in Europe.' That is just the problem with this issue.
In future work on liberalising the energy market, we shall make sure that energy policy as a whole is involved.
I am thinking here of consumers, the environment, competitiveness, renewable energy sources and the employees.
The Commission must take care that the energy market is opened up in a genuine sense and in a spirit of fair play.
The Commission must reconsider its position.
Hydroelectric power in the Nordic countries is an environmentally friendly and natural energy source that can often be produced at a competitive price, as is the case at present, thanks to a good water supply.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent report.
The liberalisation of energy markets is an essential factor in the development of the economy.
The opening up of the market will lead to reorganisation on a European scale with common rules for all the countries.
I hope that the Commission will submit comprehensive proposals to overcome the existing barriers to intraCommunity trade and ad hoc measures to deal with the Member States which do not apply the directives.
We need to speed up the process of liberalisation in the energy and gas sectors by harmonising the Member States' energy policies.
To support the liberalisation process it will be necessary to introduce a benchmarking process, as we have done in other sectors, with the publishing of a Commission half-yearly report on the final price of European Union gas and electricity.
I would support the rapporteur in stressing that competition does not prevent Member States from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on operators.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mombaur' s report on the state of liberalisation of the energy, electricity and gas markets has the merit of summarising the various Commission communications on the issue.
First, the Treaties provide for the creation of an internal market in the energy sector, which must be accomplished.
Second, the achievement of this aim undoubtedly involves opening up the markets to competition, the process of liberalisation and division into separate activities relating to energy transmission, production and distribution.
The European directive on electricity was therefore adopted rather late by my country and only in its most basic form.
However, the benefits have outweighed the problems encountered.
In any event, the progress made so far - which is very considerable - still seems to me to be insufficient.
We must not create fifteen separate liberalised markets, but one single European liberalised market.
Both of these reflect an original institutional approach, since representatives of Parliament participate in them.
There is a physical aspect, the capacity for interconnection, which must also be developed and which currently lead to limitations in the development of this single market, both in the electrical sector and in the gas sector.
This aspect will be included in the initiatives which I propose to present to the Council and Parliament at the end of this year, so that they may be ready in the Spring, for the European Council, in order to provide more impetus for liberalisation in the areas I have mentioned.
I also wish to say that the aspects relating to safety standards must also be developed soon and I am going to propose to Parliament and the Council that we hold a debate, not on the nuclear sector, nor on the coal or renewable energy sector, but on the guarantees of the European Union' s energy supply as a whole, when we will be able to consider the different sources of energy and the problems relating to each of them, because nothing is free, everything has its price, its pros and cons.
This is an extremely important European technology, with industrial possibilities beyond our European borders, which we must continue to support.
The Directive excludes hydroelectricity from the consideration of subsidies, which means that it is not sustainable.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings [5387/1/2000 - C5-0176/2000 - 1998/0266(COD)]; II.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism proposes that plenary at last gradually but properly liberalise the railway market, with liberalisation to be completed by the year 2010.
But Parliament will defend the view in the codecision procedure that the positions taken do not go far enough in order to safeguard the long-term future of the railways.
The Council wants to move one small step at a time.
We feel that railway undertakings should have access to the entire network of the fifteen Member States in five years' time, for both international and national freight traffic, and by 2010 for international and national passenger traffic.
In order to ensure that railway undertakings in all Member States also have real access to local networks in other Member States, we feel that there must be a strict, compulsory division between the management of individual networks and the provision of transport services by individual national railway undertakings.
Experience over the past 40 years shows that, if infrastructure and operations are not separated, the national railway undertaking always reserves the best lines for itself, thereby denying other railway undertakings effective, non-discriminatory access.
If we adopt the recommendation by the Committee on Transport by a large majority, we will have a real chance of reaching a compromise with the Council during the conciliation procedure which is acceptable to both the Council and Parliament, which goes beyond the common positions and which enables a real move to be made towards liberalising the railway sector, because we all want to strengthen the railways.
Our, or my proposal is that the Commission should present a report in a few years' time and report to Parliament on whether or not the principles of free, transparent competition have been contradicted and then we can take another decision.
As to whether passenger traffic between Stuttgart and Munich should be liberalised: this is a matter which, in my view, should be decided by the German government or the regional government in Bavaria and not necessarily at European level.
We, the two rapporteurs, and all the groups in the House are willing to reach a compromise.
The first conclusion concerns the liberalisation of the railways.
The Council needs to take serious account of Parliament's views.
Mr President, for the railways the status quo is really not an option.
Railways in Europe are in terminal decline, not least in the rail freight sector.
That is why I broadly support the Council position which represents a small but important step towards railway liberalisation.
We have to take into account national differences and indeed, social and employment concerns.
Broadly, the Council position has struck the right balance on the charging, licensing, access and separation issues.
Secondly, we hope that the deletion of Article 12, led by the Liberals in committee, which could deprive citizens and consumers of network benefits and deprive disabled people of access, can be reinserted into the text.
In my opinion, we need to go further than the Council stated in its common position.
We must also take the next steps, namely implement full liberalisation with regard to the transport of goods by 2005 and take the same step for the transport of passengers nationally and internationally in the longer term, this time by 2010, a deadline which is ten years away.
Secondly, who can apply for a licence?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that within my group there are two arguments being disputed in relation to the Community railways.
In my view, the present state of the railways in the various Member States does not make it viable to open them up to competition.
They are all in need of considerable modernisation in order to offer identical conditions of competition.
The disaster in Great Britain is still fresh in our minds and continues to warrant examination of rail safety requirements.
The compromise reached on 10 December by the Transport Council marked a step in the right direction.
Mr President, rail transport is very important in terms of citizens' mobility, the development of trade within Europe and in terms of the environment and regional planning.
The European Parliament has already paved the way for the liberalisation of international freight transport at its first reading, by granting authorised applicants track access rights.
It would also mean the complete opening up of international and national freight transport and, by 2010, of passenger transport.
If the proposals from this second reading are adopted, they would be considered as a real provocation by all involved in the sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Council' s common positions within the framework of the railway package are not so much unexpected as they are disappointing in part.
Finally, this sector would also benefit from transparency and decisiveness.
Mr President, I understand the ideal contained in this report to complete the internal market in the railway sector, thereby allowing freight transport by rail to compete successfully with freight transportation by road.
This is necessary for the long-term survival of the European railway sector and all Member States would be in agreement with this goal.
It is our task to reach agreement on how best to achieve this, bearing in mind the difficulties involved for some Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European transport situation can be summed up using several pertinent figures.
Between 1990 and 1997 the volume of transport of goods increased by 21% whilst over the same period the proportion of freight transported by rail dropped by 7%.
During the same period, passenger transport increased by 15% and rail transport by only 3%.
On the other hand, it is wholly unacceptable and, what is more, contradicts Parliament' s first reading, for us to take advantage of this second reading - as the Jarzembowski report suggests - to announce measures to open up all networks to competition and others designed for the widespread privatisation of such networks at national and local level, as that stems from a dogma, an untested belief in the superiority of a market model that has clearly demonstrated its limitations in the United Kingdom.
Everyone here is aware that rail integration in Europe cannot be reduced to a theological debate on the comparative merits of controlled liberalisation and uncontrolled privatisation.
Railways, which only receive 25% of the investment allocated to transport infrastructure in Europe, as opposed to the 65% allocated to roads, are in need of substantial investment in order to enhance interoperability, reduce bottlenecks, extend networks and integrated transport systems, etc.
The United Kingdom has demonstrated to what extent privatisation can represent a step backwards.
In any liberalisation process it is very important to ensure that certain standards are maintained, for example those relating to the safety of both workers and consumers.
At the same time we need to prevent artificial barriers being put in the way of the opening up of markets.
We are all aware that many European countries were not able to take part in the industrial revolution of the 19th Century at the right time, precisely because they lacked adequate rail connections.
Rail networks must therefore continue to provide a guaranteed public service in all Europe' s regions, particularly the more remote ones.
This attack is mainly aimed at postal services, rail and the energy sector, companies which have the potential to demonstrate that we can organise our economy in a more democratic, environmentally-friendly and less profit-oriented manner.
The rapporteur considers the rail industry as an irritating state monopoly with difficult and demanding trade unions in tow.
Instead of focusing his attention on stepping up cooperation between the existing railway companies and enhancing the democratic say over these companies, so that benefits of the rail industry can be better enjoyed on a European scale and liabilities can be eliminated more effectively, he puts all his hope in competition and liberalisation.
This company was established in 1939 and is an amalgamation of old private railway companies which operated inefficiently.
In percentage terms, the train has lost a considerable share in the transport market and it is difficult to detect any movement within European rail.
Due to a lack of competition as a result of excessive protectionist behaviour on the part of the Member States, the train has been relegated to the second division in this century too.
Safety takes absolute priority and cannot be monitored by the transport companies themselves.
A second key element is the opening up of the railway infrastructure or, in other words, a liberalisation of the market, which is different from privatisation.
Only when railway networks open up once and for all will railway undertakings and their employees have a chance.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without doubt, the European railways need reviving and that is precisely what the legislative package under discussion is attempting to do.
Of course we are on the right track and of course we understand the problems facing certain Member States in directly, or almost directly adopting all the new measures proposed.
Mr President, Commissioner, fellow members, when you receive a lot of letters from people you do not know, it may be for one of two reasons.
Our present railway system is a far cry from what we desperately need in Europe, namely an efficient system which is also an acceptable system.
Telecommunications traffic has demonstrated that, the electricity sector and numerous other sectors besides have demonstrated that.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, the overall objective of the railway package under discussion here today is fast liberalisation of the European railways.
As you know, we in the PPE are calling for this in all areas needed to complete the single market, wherever healthy competition can replace hand-me-down monopolies.
I am not mathematically gifted, but I see a dramatic difference in favour of road transport, whose share is more than 95%.
I am delighted that Parliament is standing firmly by its convictions in this area, especially with regard to the full realisation of a railway transport market.
I would like to say that what is clear to most of us is that things cannot continue as they are: with closed public systems, which are national, confined within national borders, which are leading to a situation where the railway, day after day, is losing its share of the market in goods transport and in the transportation of persons as well, with the exception of a very specific form of transport, that is, high speed trains and suburban trains.
I would like to say that next year I am prepared to present an additional step, a different initiative, which may be accepted or rejected, both by the Council or by Parliament, when the time comes, and modified in its various fields, and which will also deal with certain aspects, at least with regard to the transportation of persons or, possibly, the transport of goods internally within the different countries, but which will be separate from the current package, on which we have reached a fundamental compromise - I insist - with the Council.
Before thanking the two rapporteurs on their work once again, which I know has been very complex - I fully appreciate this - but which I believe has been very important, and before commenting on all the amendments one by one, I would ask the rapporteurs and Parliament as a whole for a degree of flexibility, so that in the end we may achieve a conciliation - since I fear that we will have to go to conciliation, the way things are going - which will allow us to move forward with this package which has a key role to play in the future of the railway.
Turning specifically to each of the reports, after these general comments, and perhaps in order to clarify and not to prolong this debate any further, I would like to refer to amendments relating to the Directive amending Directive 91/440/EEC, whose rapporteur is Mr Jarzembowski.
On the other hand, I must reject - although I insist that I agree fully with many of them, but cannot accept them - Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 26 and 27.
Amendments Nos 6, 8, 9 and 11, which propose the separation of the operators of infrastructures from the providers of services, clarify the text enormously.
I would like to say that, although I would perhaps have preferred other proposals, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 4, 6, 8, 12, 13, 15, 16, 19 and 20; but we cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 17, 21, 22 and 23.
Mr President, I would once again like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work and ask for flexibility, from them and from Parliament, so that in the end we may achieve a result, which must also be supplemented by the other directive, which involves the interoperability of the systems themselves, which would be a great step forward.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
What we are talking about here is, as it were, a ceterum censeo, which needs to be the subject of debate here in the House for all directives.
The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore sets great store by the following conclusion: first, that specialists should also keep up with general practice while training as specialists.
Differential diagnostics continue to change, which is why specialist training must also include general practice.
Secondly: we are calling, by a large majority, for specialist training to be increased from at least two to at least three years in order to take account of a broad trend within the European Union.
Two other amendments have been proposed concerning Irish architects.
The PPE-DE group - my group - intends to withdraw its amendment here.
The mechanics needed to achieve this change are very extensive, as can be seen from even the most cursory examination of Lord Cockfield's 1992 programme, one of the most revolutionary, yet on the face of it unexciting programmes of the post-war world.
Within that framework there is clearly a choice of instruments for putting the single market in place which can be described as the choice between harmonization and mutual recognition.
In my view systems of mutual recognition are more attractive.
The insensitive imposition of harmonization has caused untold political damage to the European political enterprise and had the single market been based more on mutual recognition and less on harmonization Europe's political condition would be much less febrile than it is today.
Finally, and more generally, I would like to reiterate the rapporteur's general conclusion that this is all far too difficult and complicated for anyone other than an expert or a lawyer and every effort must be made to simplify the law and make it more user-friendly so that the single market is understood by all our citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who takes Europe seriously wants to provide a good future for young people in the European Union.
This includes, most importantly, ensuring that young people can develop their skills and talent in any place of their choice in any country in the Union, irrespective of where they are from and where they trained.
Anyone who has learned something at one end of the Union should be able to pursue his or her career in a country in the middle or at the other end of the Union.
Thanks to the excellent work by the rapporteur, Mr Wieland, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has had no trouble highlighting a few important points in the directive before us today.
Thank you for listening.
Mr President, my task is also on behalf of my group, to welcome Amendments Nos 1 to 11 and the spirit in which they were moved by my friend, Mr Wieland.
These are important points although they are not controversial among us.
It is also important as a purely linguistic matter to make sure that gleichwertig is translated as "equivalent" and its equivalent words in other European languages.
I conclude by taking up the point that nothing is more important than that the laws of the European Union should be understandable to its citizens.
However, at the end of the day, the only people to pay the price for this situation are the citizens, especially young people who may well have invested time and energy in the certainty of obtaining results and official recognition and feel betrayed by the institutions.
And the situation is all the more serious if we consider the unemployment levels in Europe.
I belong to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport which, once again, has not been asked to speak on an issue which not only involves legal questions, but should also be subject to consensus in other respects.
The complexity which exists in Europe in relation to the recognition of qualifications gives rise to documents such as this, which, despite the efforts of Parliament and the Commission itself, is a real 'collage' .
We talk of the Europe of research and a Europe of knowledge and then we do not recognise, out of pure fear or pure vested interests, anything that people do outside of their own countries.
Therefore, I wish now to ask that we question this directive, so that the recognition of the medical qualifications may be extended to many other qualifications, because it seems to me to be truly unjust that this is not the case, and that a country is unable to pass on what it knows to another country.
Therefore, as representative of the Culture Committee in this case, I ask that this recognition be extended and that the road be opened to greater recognition of equivalence.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I generally welcome any measure or any directive to improve the mutual recognition of professional or academic qualifications.
The EU Treaty clearly regulates the freedom of movement and the freedom to establish of people in the EU.
Procedures for recognising diplomas acquired in third countries must also be simplified.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening I should simply like to welcome the initiative aimed at simplifying and clarifying the directives relating to the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications.
This is the case for Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6 and 11, amendments which the Commission welcomes.
Moreover, the Commission has taken note of the requests made in Amendments Nos 1 and 2 to codify the directive on "recognition of professional qualifications" and to re-examine the problem of recognition of formal qualifications acquired in third countries.
Regarding medical training, which forms the subject of Amendments Nos 3 and 7 to 10, the Commission shares Parliament' s view that on the one hand, this is a matter of great importance which requires further attention but on the other hand, these amendments only contain a few isolated proposals which require a more general analysis before they can be examined and approved.
The Council and Commission have already explained why this amendment cannot be adopted, namely because this issue is a purely internal affair.
This concludes my response.
I thank you for the opportunity you have given me to expand on this matter.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m.)
