rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, looking back on the position which this House has adopted with regard to Kosovo since 1999, there is only one conclusion possible to my mind.
On 26 March, the United Nations Secretary-General forwarded the Comprehensive Proposal for a Kosovo Status Settlement of his Special Envoy, Martti Ahtisaari, to the UN Security Council in New York.
The Special Envoy is due to explain his proposal in person to the members of the Security Council on 3 April.
The EU Ministers for Foreign Affairs examined the proposed solution in detail at the Council of 12 February.
Belgrade and Priština held further rounds of talks on the proposals in February and March, first at expert level and then, on 10 March, at the highest political level.
Subsequently, on 10 March, Mr Ahtisaari declared the talks at an end and announced his intention to forward his proposed status settlement immediately to the UN Security Council - quite rightly, in the opinion of the Presidency.
I should like to say a few words about the future role of the EU in Kosovo.
The EU is prepared to take on an important role in the implementation of the status settlement.
Firstly, maintaining unity in its search, together with its international partners, for a lasting solution for Kosovo, Serbia and the region as a whole; and, secondly, intensifying its preparations to support international efforts to implement Kosovo's status.
The Kosovo status settlement represents the end point in the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia.
As the conflicts of the 1990s have proved, sustainable stability in the Western Balkans is an issue central, not to say vital, to European security.
Over the past 14 months of negotiations, common ground was found on several practical aspects of the settlement.
As Mr Lagendijk rightly underlined, the essence of a decision on Kosovo is European unity, here and in New York.
EU Member States and our partners in the international community must share responsibility.
The infrastructures are very weak; key industries are in need of complete modernisation and renovation.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, in 1912, Kosovo, a region with a 90% Albanian population, was annexed to Serbia without a referendum.
It had a chequered fate, until, at the end of the 1980s, the war criminal Slobodan Milošević revoked Kosovo's autonomy in the Yugoslav Constitution.
I can only make a plea to Serbian politicians: General de Gaulle once spoke of the paix des braves - the peace of the brave.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although the European Union does not have the foreign policy powers that many of us would like it to have, our debate today on Kosovo has greater political significance than it would in other circumstances, mainly because the discussion and the adoption of the Lagendijk report is taking place at a moment in politics when matters are still fluid, when events are evolving week by week and when individual participants can still influence events.
Firstly: the future of the Balkans and of Kosovo is a future in Europe.
Finally, the European Parliament must endorse - and I say again, unanimously - the Ahtisaari plan, in the hope that the same will occur in the next few weeks within the Council.
At present, there are 213 Irish troops among the KFOR force stationed in Kosovo.
They are playing an invaluable role in creating peace and stability.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, there is no simple solution for the future of the remainder of the former Yugoslavia, including Kosovo.
For this reason, I am glad that, after eight years of international administration, there is a tangible proposal on the table at the UN Security Council.
We are working together for a solution that should enable coexistence for several ethnic communities in Kosovo and create in the shortest possible time circumstances in which Kosovo, which is facing very challenging economic and social difficulties, can begin to move towards reconciliation, progress and prosperity. (DE) Madam President, tomorrow, this House will be voting in favour of the Lagendijk report - I assume by a very substantial majority - but this will primarily reflect support for the work of Mr Ahtisaari and his staff.
Europe's task - and this is also supported and highlighted by the report on which we shall be voting tomorrow - is to help both parties cooperate on supporting this difficult process sensibly and in a way that shows decency and mutual respect.
We declare our support for a clear-cut decision on the status issue, but we also affirm that Europe - and particularly this House - must support both parties, so that both Kosovo and Serbia can look forward to a bright future. (SL) This weekend we marked solemnly in Rome and Berlin the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome and celebrated a long period of peace.
The genocide in Srebrenica has taught us all that we cannot and must not allow or risk a repeat of such a human catastrophe in Kosovo.
For this reason, I believe that politicians in neighbouring Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia, as well as those in Croatia and Bosnia, will find additional motivation to come closer to the European Union. (PL) Thank you, Madam President.
We have been trying really for years to help the people in Serbia and Kosovo to have a peaceful and prosperous future.
Whether that can be just, my dear Mr Tabajdi, I do not know.
The Ahtisaari plan is in my view the only basis for a peaceful coexistence.
Unfortunately, discussions often disregard the years of the apartheid regime from 1989 to 1998, as has happened again today.
I do not think that the NATO attack marked the beginning, but that it all started with the revocation of Kosovo's autonomous status.
It is not up to the European Union, however, to take a stand in this respect at the moment.
In this light, it is not, as we see it, up to the EU to pre-empt the final outcome of the status in the Security Council.
This is something for which the Union will need to be fully prepared, but will, above all, need to avoid being piggy in the middle from the word go; this is also why my group will be voting against the amendment which qualifies the status without there having been a debate on this in New York.
In this respect, we follow the line as expressed by the presidency, but also by the Commission, neither of whom mentioned qualification this afternoon. - (PL) Madam President, the debate on Kosovo has raised an issue which is of the utmost importance in terms of international relations.
This novel approach to international intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state will set a precedent which may, in the future, lead to attempts by the international community to manipulate the internal affairs of other countries experiencing far more minor problems.
Unfortunately, however, the negotiations during 2006 and at the beginning of 2007 have failed to bring the differing positions together.
The mere fact that we do not want our solution for Kosovo to become a precedent this time is the recognition that this solution is unfortunate, or at least imprudent.
And four: to convene an international conference on the Western Balkans in order to integrate the solution for Kosovo into a region package deal.
I do not accept the notion of an independent state with limited sovereignty.
I am aware that the only realistic outcome for Kosovo cannot be a return to Serbian sovereignty, nor partition, nor union with any other country.
At the same time, we are providing Serbia with a tangible EU perspective, which should help Serbia to leave the nationalist past behind and turn towards a European future. (Applause) The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
UN Special Representative Ahtisaari has presented a report that recommends Kosovo be afforded all of the elements of independence, without using the word independence per se.
As a member of the UN Security Council, on 10 June 1999 Russia granted its approval of independence for Kosovo.
This sometimes requires courage. (EL) In accepting the Ahtisaari report on the creation of an 'independent' protectorate of Kosovo under Euro-NATO occupation, the European Union and the European Parliament are creating a clear state of secession in the eyes of the world and a new state.
