Situation in the Middle East/Gaza Strip (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in the Middle East/Gaza Strip.
As you know, the Commissioner is also very knowledgeable about the problems of the Middle East conflict and, like Mr Schwarzenberg, she has travelled to the region.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor in this timely debate on the dramatic situation in the Middle East.
Since the start of Israel's military campaign in the Gaza Strip on 27 December, we have witnessed a steep deterioration of the situation on all levels.
The humanitarian consequences of this operation are dramatic for the population in Gaza.
Since the start of the operation, over 900 Palestinians have died, of whom roughly 30% were women and children.
Over 4 200 Palestinians have been injured, according to the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
According to the United Nations agency, an estimated 28 000 people have been displaced since the beginning of the hostilities.
Since 4 November last year, foreign NGOs' personnel have not been allowed access to Gaza to deliver and monitor humanitarian aid properly.
The current daily average of 55 trucks remains pitifully insufficient compared to a need for at least 300 trucks daily to cover the needs of the 80% of the population which has become aid-dependent.
They agreed on the need for an immediate and permanent ceasefire and immediate humanitarian action in stepping up the peace process.
The summit aimed mainly to assist in ending violence and alleviating the humanitarian crisis.
The presidency led a diplomatic mission in the Middle East.
The six-month ceasefire, which expired on 19 December, was far from perfect.
However, only a full and immediate ceasefire would allow the delivery and distribution of the large quantities of humanitarian aid that Gaza so desperately needs and for the resumption of basic services.
Israel must ensure the unhindered and safe access for humanitarian aid and other essential supplies, including food, medicines and fuel, to the Palestinian civilian population of the Gaza Strip, as well as the safe passage of civilian persons and humanitarian personnel into and from the Gaza Strip.
But even a durable and comprehensive solution in Gaza will not be sufficient to install peace in the region.
We therefore support the mediation effort undertaken by Egypt in accordance with the Arab League's resolutions of 26 November 2008.
As pointed out in the conclusions of the GAERC in December 2008, the European Union is prepared to support any stable Palestinian government that pursues policies and measures reflecting the Quartet's principles.
The European Union stresses the need to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East and calls for the resumption of Palestinian-Israeli negotiations and the resolving of all outstanding issues in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, including all core issues.
A durable and comprehensive solution will ultimately depend on real progress in the Middle East peace process.
Therefore, urgent measures must immediately be taken to reverse the damage done by the military action in order to restore the possibility of an equitable negotiated outcome. (Applause) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think we all would have hoped for a better start to 2009.
Therefore, in response to the outbreak of the crisis, the emergency meeting of the EU foreign ministers in Paris on 30 December 2008 was very important in developing proposals from the outset - the Paris Declaration - for bringing this conflict to an end, which we then used in our delegation and visit to the Middle East.
As you have heard, our mission was carried out in tandem with a visit by President Sarkozy, who had planned to make a trip to Syria and Lebanon and who then decided to visit Egypt and Israel to reinforce these efforts, still on the basis of our declaration of 30 December 2008.
We coordinated closely, including a joint meeting in Ramallah, where President Sarkozy outlined his ceasefire plan, for which we - the troika - had to some extent paved the way through our discussions with key stakeholders, particularly Egypt and Jerusalem.
These efforts reinforced each other, sending a strong, united message from the European Union, and the troika not only conveyed this EU institutional position but also manifested our presence.
Israel accepted some of these points, and, in the negotiations with the Israeli Government, I also secured the co-location of an ECHO official in the Israeli Defence Force premises to coordinate the channelling of humanitarian aid with the Israeli armed forces, as had been done in the war in Lebanon, and that was a powerful tool for better coordination.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to all the courageous colleagues still working in Gaza, to those from UNWRA and ICRC, with whom we are working and who receive a lot of our funding, but also to many others. (Applause) I would also like to offer my sincere condolences to the families of those workers who have already been victims of this tragic episode.
It is important to say and recognise that Egypt has been playing a leading role in direct contacts with Hamas, and also that in this regard President Sarkozy's visit to Syria, as well as the Turkish efforts, have been very important.
I also understand that the summit of the Arab countries could take place in Qatar at the end of this week.
We aim, as this intense diplomatic activity shows, to support all relevant actors who have the leverage with Hamas to help deliver a sustainable solution as set out in UN Security Council Resolution 1860.
However, we have to be clear in saying that whatever we do, it must not contribute to an endless cycle of destruction and reconstruction with no peace.
As a long-term perspective, we have to say that the current offensive clearly contributes to a weakening of trust between Palestinians and Israelis.
Military operations can never bring a lasting peace; only a negotiated political agreement can do this.
Hamas's position that President Abbas's term will end on 9 January is another issue which is closely linked to the reform of the PLO and of Fatah.
The conflict in Gaza also, unfortunately, has potential negative repercussions in terms of regional support for the peace process.
Finally, Mr President, I come to the most important element: the European Union is a union of values with, in prime place, the value of peace.
I believe that the European Union must make every effort and use all its political weight in the interests of this cause, without allowing our thoughts to become muddled or our hearts to become hardened to such a conflict. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, debates of the kind we are holding today are very difficult for us all.
So far, this conflict has claimed 1 000 lives in 17 days.
It is crystal clear that the conflict can be resolved only on the basis of international law, and the fact that international law and international humanitarian law must be respected should be obvious to a democratic country based on the rule of law.
Therefore, all we can do to overcome the humanitarian crisis is to appeal for an immediate ceasefire.
It is quite clear that the State of Israel has a right to defend itself.
In my estimation - and, I believe, that of most of my fellow Members in this House - the means are not proportionate. (Applause from the left) We must tell our friends in Israel, regardless of their political orientation, that we are aware that Hamas is no peace movement.
If Israel cannot engage in this directly - I can understand the point of view of Israeli politicians who say we cannot talk to Hamas, even though many of the country's citizens believe they should - if parliamentarians and members of the government say they do not want to, there are enough opportunities for international mediation.
It is a fundamental error to believe that there can ultimately be a military solution to this Middle East conflict.
The only solution there can be is dialogue between the parties to the conflict, with the help of international mediation.
A couple of years later I saw pictures on television of this terrorist leader receiving the Nobel Peace Prize together with Israeli politicians.
I should like to make two additional points.
It is very useful to have good intentions, but it is more important to be effective.
The problem has very remote roots: the legitimate and sacrosanct right of the Palestinians to have a free state is coupled with the equally sacrosanct right of Israel to be recognised, and we know that Israel has been removed from the map in many countries.
We know that it was not Israel that started this umpteenth war and that terrorism is still one of the main problems.
We are further now from a hope of security than we ever have been.
All those who think that this war is, according to the logic of the Israeli argument, a war justified by the fact that there was a rocket attack on Israel, and that the Palestinians should be taught a lesson, have not understood a thing.
Since the time of Clausewitz we have known that he who starts a war must know how to finish it, must know what the aim is.
We can say today that the aim of this war will never be achieved by this war and the way in which it is being waged.
And that is why we have to be very clear here.
I call on the Council to stop thinking in terms of upgrading, increasing, improving relations with Israel while the situation remains as it is.
This is a poor solution; this is not the right solution! (Applause) I call on all those who rightly advocate a dialogue, a debate with Hamas, not to be naïve, to bear in mind the fact that a debate must be held with Hamas in order to improve the situation in Gaza, since they hold the power, but, at the same time, to realise that Hamas's strategy requires there to be casualties.
If we give the Palestinians in the West Bank a hope of life, they will rise up against Hamas and they will rid us of Hamas.
Free the Palestinians from the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and the Palestinians will free themselves from Hamas. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Rahed is 50 years old; he has lost his home, his three children, his wife and two sisters-in-law.
I believe that we must understand, clearly and unambiguously, that this military war, this militarism on the part of Israel, is leading not to Israel's salvation, but to its end, including its moral end.
We should take a break from that, because what we must do is to bring about a cease-fire.
Border control is control of the main borders, Rafah and Herez, because for a long time, since 1992, since the Oslo agreement, as you very well know, Palestinians have not been able to exit through Herez, and not even sick people get out through there.
We must therefore think not only in terms of the tunnels, and the weapons with which Hamas can arm itself, but in terms of absolutely all the prohibitions that exist for the Palestinians.
Israel, however, should know that it is the West Bank which is militarily occupied and it should truly make peace, and not build settlements. (Applause) Many thanks, Mrs Morgantini.
This ideological point of view leaves absolutely no room for the Jewish state of Israel in the Middle East, and the baneful effects of this Muslim totalitarianism are making themselves cruelly felt in the Gaza Strip.
After all, a cease-fire or temporary armistice is to Hamas and company a mere pause for breath in the Jihad against Israel. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I believe that the vast majority of this House shares the wishes for peace and the concerns that have so far been expressed by many of us here.
I humbly wish to share the same kind of approach: after all these years, we must still seek a solution for two peoples and two states - that is a point which we must not forget - and we must seek, finally, to affirm international law.
In a war situation there is no proportionality - each war and each casualty is one too many, and it is not possible to balance figures for each side against the other.
At the same time, the Israeli attack must be stopped.
If Israel wishes to have moderate Palestinians to deal with in future - which would mean a two-state solution - then, once this is all over, care must be taken at long last that the moderate Palestinians supporting President Abbas have accomplishments to show to their own population, which means an end to the resettlement policy and to several other things.
If not with Hamas, directly or indirectly, then with whom must a way out of the blind violence be sought?
The risk is that this massacre, far from vanquishing Hamas, Mr Brok, will weaken the Palestinian Authority itself even further, as well as those in the Palestinian world who have staked everything on negotiations with Israel.
We, in Europe, and we, in the international community, have allowed the situation to get worse; we did nothing when Israel's security was under threat, and we did nothing when the blockade was making life in Gaza absolutely impossible.
Today is the 19th day of war; 995 people have been killed, including 292 children, and there are thousands of wounded, some of whom are still waiting to be evacuated.
The humanitarian situation is becoming worse and worse: 700 000 inhabitants of Gaza no longer have electricity, one-third of them no longer have water or gas, and it will soon be three weeks since this situation first began, three weeks in which these people have lived or, rather, have done their best to survive.
All of us here know that, in order to obtain this agreement, it will perhaps be necessary for Europe, the United States and the Arab states - which are meeting the day after tomorrow - to all speak with one and the same voice.
I should like to express my firm conviction before I conclude.
Beyond the words, however, the crisis remains, and there are still thousands of people - the civilian population and children - who are in desperate need of humanitarian aid.
While our children were celebrating Christmas, how many children died in Gaza?
It is not enough to broadcast views on Hamas, on Israel, on the initial responsibility, or on who is more to blame.
We must set out strict conditions to accompany the peace and development process in the Middle East.
To finish, I would also like to refer to the words of the Pope, who said that we need to give specific answers to the general aspirations of many in those lands to live in peace, security and dignity, as Mrs Morgantini also pointed out.
Nothing can excuse the fact that not everything has been done to protect this population, and I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you feel, today, that you have done everything you can to ensure that the Israeli authorities call an immediate halt to this indiscriminate and disproportionate military operation?
In this, the rocket attacks against southern Israel - and I stress that I am against any attack from whichever side on civilians - served as the pretext.
There should be respect for international law.
The international community demands an immediate ceasefire, the immediate withdrawal of the military forces, access to humanitarian aid, and freedom of movement for the population.
There can only be a political solution to this conflict.
There should be a full return to international law, which means ending the 42-year-long occupation of Palestine, and establishing a sovereign and viable Palestinian state, thus building a peaceful future for both Palestinian and Israeli children.
Currently the same drama is continuing on this land, the source of one of the three pillars of our civilisation.
Maybe coming from Northern Ireland heightens my awareness, so when I hear Hamas bleat because of necessary retaliatory action against its years of indiscriminate raining of rockets upon innocent citizens in Israel, then I am unimpressed because I know that Hamas, like the IRA in my country, are masters of the twin arts of terrorism and propaganda.
I would like to congratulate the European Commission on having stepped up its efforts, the Presidency on its initiatives and on coordinating national action being taken in this sector, and Egypt on the important and sensitive role which it is playing.
Both the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council have already said that we need to support our objectives for viable peace and the creation of a Palestinian state which will live in peace and respect next to Israel.
We have announced them and we have supported them without result.
The vicious circle of violence continues with negative consequences not only for the people of Israel and the Palestinians, but for all peoples in the area and for the security of the international community.
Now we need to take stock of our actions, our political choices and our practices and take more courageous and different steps.
There is an urgent need for us to engage at bilateral level with Israel in an honest, in-depth dialogue and self-criticism within the framework of our friendly relations and partnership and for us to identify the mistakes made in promoting mutual trust between these two peoples.
We also need to strengthen this sort of dialogue with all Palestinians, to make them understand the importance of peace, cohesion, human life and unity between them. (DE) Mr President, after Prime Minister Topolánek made some joking remarks today, I can say that, as an Austrian MEP, I am pleased that both the Commission and the Czech Council Presidency are represented by Austrians.
However, neither was it very well-advised of us to decide against entering into dialogue with even moderate representatives of Hamas - who may not even have belonged to Hamas, but rather have been nominated by it in the joint government.
By taking this position, we helped to destroy this joint government.
Therefore, we must return to dialogue and talks, as many of our fellow Members have already said today.
I have said so to Hamas representatives in Gaza myself before now, but let us have no more sanctimonious talk from Israeli officials about the need to fight terrorism, because Palestinians being bombed could name terrorists and they would name Olmert, Livni and Barak.
You cannot make peace without talking to your enemies, yet we refuse to talk to the elected representatives of the Palestinian people.
Everyone knows that a military solution will not work in the Middle East.
I support the creation of an independent, sustainable Palestinian state, but a reasonably good economy and a proper political plan must be but in place.
Israel is entitled to protect itself, but it has gone too far with these attacks.
The peace process in the Middle East must be put in place immediately.
Yes, Mr Obama is going to talk to Iran and we must talk to everyone, including Hamas, in the Middle East.
This requires concrete action; it requires action on the ground, to give hope to the moderates.
If we do not act, the blood of those in Gaza will equally stain our hands.
Once again, the main victims are women and children, of whom thousands have been wounded and hundreds killed.
I should also like today to draw your attention to a new situation.
This suggests a radical change in the nature of the conflict.
Firstly, a Palestinian's life is equal to an Israeli's life, but not only his life, his future and his freedom, also.
Europe must enforce the application of the conditions of its partnership agreements, including paragraph 2 of its association agreements on respect for human rights.
On Sunday we left behind us in Gaza a population that was caught in a trap, imprisoned in a ghetto below the bombs, and hundreds of thousands of children whose futures are today in our hands, and we came out of Gaza simply because we are Europeans.
The only Palestinians leaving Rafah are those who go feet first in ambulances, because they are dead or because they are wounded.
Europe will no longer be Europe, and no citizen will recognise himself as European if we forget these basics. (Applause) - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by echoing the words of Mr Cohn-Bendit.
It is despair that grips us today; this war is a tragedy.
The images of suffering and of death that have flashed across our screens non-stop for three weeks now are unbearable, as are, I hasten to add, all the images of war, all the conflicts, including those that are spoken of much less, if at all, such as Congo, Darfur, Zimbabwe and, before that, Chechnya, the horrors of which took place amid a deafening media and, I would stress, political, silence.
So, what should we do now to ensure that our debate today is not what it often is - a somewhat pointless, futile confrontation?
The fundamentals of peace are well-known: they have already been identified at Taba, Camp David and Annapolis.
It is not a question of knowing whether a dialogue will be held with Hamas, but of knowing how it will be held, and under what conditions.
The answer is that given by Yasser Arafat, in May 1989, when he declared his freedom-destroying and deadly charter null and void.
Inter-Palestinian reconciliation, above all, comes at this price, and our role as the European Union is to get the protagonists in Palestine and Israel, but also their Arab neighbours, Egypt and Jordan, to become partners of a lasting peace agreement. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, on Sunday, 11 January, we visited the border city of Rafah in the Gaza Strip, which is completely sealed off.
If you have not seen it with your own eyes you cannot imagine how much the people of Gaza are suffering and how urgent it is to reach a peaceful, definitive solution to the conflict.
Therefore, I wish to reiterate, in the strongest terms, that the Israeli bombings must be brought to an immediate halt, as must Hamas' rocket fire into Israel, and the smuggling of arms into the Gaza Strip from Egypt must also be stopped.
I remember the bombing of Dresden in 1944, when British aircraft razed the city to the ground and killed 92 000 civilians, mostly women and children.
The first is that an overwhelming majority of this Parliament wants to bring about a quick ceasefire.
The second is that there is overwhelming support for the requirement for all parties involved to accept the state of Israel's right to exist within peaceful borders.
Let us not think that this tragedy would be any less if those who deliberately kill civilians succeed in reaching even further in amongst civilians by means of rocket fire.
It is not a conflict between Palestinians and Jews, it is not a conflict between Israel and the Palestinian authority, it is a conflict between extremists and moderate forces in the region.
If Europe sends out this message, we will also strengthen the moderate forces and lay a better foundation for peace. (PL) Mr President, I would like to address those who have detonated their charges of deception and demagogy in this House.
The conflict we are discussing today is an asymmetrical conflict.
It is easy for us to talk, but very hard to take effective action.
Without an international presence, this conflict will never be resolved.
Ladies and gentlemen, would you want a terrorist organisation to fire 7 000 missiles from Israel into Gaza?
I do not know when this force will be able to intervene; intervention will not be possible before an agreement has been reached between the parties to the conflict, but we all hope that this will be as soon as possible.
I believe that the European Union will therefore be in the best position to take action and - why not, Mr Pöttering? - to do so within the framework of the Union for the Mediterranean.
Neither should the constant threat under which Israeli children live be allowed.
The question is whether, in this vicious circle of aggression, the present Israeli authorities are able to take the lesson from the six-year-long history in the area, and apply the scalpel-like strategy for two states.
Let us be more courageous in this strategy. (SL) The Israeli state has ordered the Israeli army to destroy Hamas in Gaza.
However, the Israeli army is eradicating Hamas by killing Palestinians in Gaza.
The extent of the military violence is huge and disproportionate.
Israel has to recognise Hamas and initiate dialogue with them, and vice versa - Hamas has to recognise Israel.
Military violence must immediately give way and priority to a political solution.
Unlike the press, we know that it was your mission which led the Israeli side to debate the opening-up of humanitarian corridors and a daily ceasefire.
I think this is the first time the Israelis have accepted Europe as a major partner and the Czech Presidency as an important representative.
The three leading Israeli representatives, Barak, Livni and Olmert, are currently at odds over the conditions and guarantees under which they are willing to implement a ceasefire.
We have here Security Council Resolution 1860 and we must comply with its provisions.
It is necessary to adopt safeguards ensuring the long-term ceasefire and to allow a humanitarian corridor to be opened.
The road to lasting peace leads only through political negotiations.
Here it is necessary for the European Union, in cooperation with the new United States government and the League of Arab States, to play a much more prominent political role than has been the case thus far.
The long-running conflict must be ended through a political agreement based on a two-state solution, enabling Israelis and Palestinians to live together in peace within secure, internationally recognised borders, and striving to build a peaceful system of regional security throughout the Middle East.
The only purpose of this massacre is to prevent the creation of a Palestinian state.
I believe that Mrs Muscardini is right; I advise those who do not know what things are like in that area and who need to be able to express precise opinions to go and see how things are on the ground, by going either as a tourist or for other purposes.
I believe that throughout these events, which date back decades and are not just recent, the only losers have been ourselves in the western world, because we have never seriously tackled this problem and never sought to resolve it; we continue to see it as a problem between two opposing parties.
In this specific case the problem is between the terrorists and the state of Israel, and the Palestinian people are the victims caught in the middle.
I believe that the real losers are all of us. (EL) Mr President, public opinion throughout Europe is calling for one thing from the Union: to put a stop to the slaughter of the Palestinian people.
We must condemn blind violence whatever its origin, but we need to be consistent in recognising that Israel is responding with state terrorism on a massive scale.
The asymmetrical retaliation, the blatant disregard for any concept of international and humanitarian law on the part of Israel cannot be tolerated.
It is unacceptable for white phosphorus bombs and experimental weapons to be used against civilians and it is inhumane for innocent women and children to be targeted.
If this happened in Africa or some other part of the world, our reaction would be immediate and the UN Security Council resolution would be binding.
We have witnessed colleagues during this debate today lining up to see who could express the strongest outrage against the Jewish State.
However, for one country in the Middle East, this was exactly the outcome it had sought: Iran has supplied missiles, munitions and other sophisticated weaponry to Hamas for years.
The fascist regime in Tehran is the main sponsor of war and terror in the Middle East, and the tragic outcome is exactly what Tehran wanted.
This is an issue of respect for international humanitarian law.
Human Rights Watch and Islamic Relief have told me that the three-hour daily pause is simply woefully inadequate to get in and to distribute aid.
Save the Children say that the killing of 139 children since the conflict began, with 1 271 injured, cannot be justified as self-defence.
I welcome the statement today by the EU envoy in Israel, Ramiro Cibrian-Uzal, who said that the EU and Israel have put negotiations on the upgrading of relations 'on hold' at this time for these reasons.
However, afterwards, we - the EU and the international community - cannot leave the fate of the people in the Gaza Strip in the hands of Hamas and Israel alone.
During the last year, surveys in Gaza have shown a fall in political support for Hamas in favour of Fatah.
Picasso depicted this same horror in his Guernica painting of our Guernica razed to the ground by the Junkers of the Condor Legion seven decades ago.
We should not be surprised that a Hamas MP should take pride in stating that death was an 'industry' for the Palestinian people.
The sad reality is that the Palestinian people have been atrociously served over many years by those who have control over Palestine Authority areas, by the international community, which has tolerated extremism and corruption, and by the Arab world, which has done nothing practical over many decades to improve their lives or prospects.
We need a Marshall Plan for the Middle East.
Mr President, I could agree with what Mr Van Orden says about Hamas, but the fact is that none of what he says justifies the bombing of civilians by Israel.
Since Israel withdrew from Gaza, it has turned it into the largest prison in the world, and for the last three weeks it has turned it into a slaughterhouse, illegally using terror against terror, killing civilian men, women and children, and killing the possibility of a viable two-state solution in the process.
There can be no upgrading of Europe's relations with Israel so long as it fails to engage in constructive and substantive negotiations with its neighbours and all the Palestinian elected members, including Hamas.
It should be made clear by Europe that any escalation of this war on Gaza will be followed by an escalation of our reaction to that war. (HU) Mr President, Commissioners, members of Council, fellow Members, I find the behaviour of the parties in the Gaza conflict to be cynical.
This is the fundamental axiom which each party to the conflict must hold equally important, if there is ever to be true peace in that region.
The Israeli response is totally disproportionate and the deaths of young children are particularly shameful.
I may add that yesterday a note on the humanitarian needs of the region was distributed to those of us who attended the joint meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Development Committee.
I urge the Commission and the Council to ensure that a totally comprehensive humanitarian aid package is ready so that we can move in there and help these suffering people at the first opportunity.
I admit, being an old man, that I have seen many terrorist organisations during my time growing up from their beginnings, becoming more or less acceptable, and being accepted by the international community.
We know what important work they are doing, and I would like to congratulate them.
There was a question on how we can assist in the region.
First of all, those who are on the spot will tell us clearly what they need.
They have to ask us and the European Union.
I heard one important suggestion, which was to prepare a Marshall Plan for the Middle East.
This region really needs a genuine build-up of the ideas which helped Europe so much after the war.
I think we achieved a lot, and I would like once again to commend Ms Ferrero-Waldner, who did the main work in our delegation in the humanitarian sphere, where what we have achieved still works today.
But, let us be clear, even these very difficult negotiations in the Middle East are based on the design already structured during our delegation's visit to the Middle East.
As you know, that was a decision taken by the Council of Ministers of the European Union in June 2008.
I think its politics are also harming Israel.
The Palestinians ask you - how can it be right that your country asks for humanitarian aid on the ground, but remains silent when there are only bombs from the skies?
The force used must be proportional to the wrong endured.
While acknowledging the fact that Hamas began the rocket attacks against Israel, the Israeli reaction has, in my opinion, been disproportionate.
The numbers speak for themselves: over 900 Palestinians have been killed in contrast to a much smaller number of Israelis.
The first issue is that there can be no lasting solution to this conflict without stopping the bombardment of Israel.
The second issue is that there cannot be a lasting solution to this conflict without opening Gaza to humanitarian aid.
Indeed, President Peres has been absolutely right in saying that Gaza should be open for aid and not enclosed for rockets.
There cannot be a return to the status quo ante, and I think we could do a number of things here.
If the answer to these questions is yes, then we should all commend as brave the Israeli Government for their action in Gaza.
Madam Commissioner, I hope you listened very carefully to the Foreign Affairs Committee last night and to this Parliament today.
I hope you may reply in your debate to say, unlike President-in-Office Schwarzenberg, that there is moral power that the European Union may exert on the aggressor on this particular occasion.
The Israeli people are a just and honourable people who have suffered miserably throughout the centuries in this continent.
I want to congratulate the few young European voluntary workers who are suffering together with the people of Gaza, in particular Alberto Arce.
They represent the best of the values of solidarity and freedom held by this Europe of ours, which needs to act accordingly in such a terrible conflict. (DA) Mr President, I just want to say two things.
The rate of settlement building has never been as rapid as it has been since Annapolis, and I believe that as long as no progress is made on the ground we will never get Hamas to act in accordance with the rules we want it to play by and that, for that reason, we must ensure that Israel fulfils its side of the bargain.
The fact is that Israel, after eight years of waiting and absorbing around 8 000 missiles that terrorised one million citizens along the Gaza borders, finally ran out of patience.
Hamas is a terrorist organisation and is the clear culprit and a burden for the Palestinian people in Gaza.
The solution lies in an invigorated Quartet and particularly in redoubling the joint effort between the new US administration and a stronger and more integrated EU.
I welcome the Czech presidency, its priorities and its immediate and active involvement in the region. (RO) This conflict, which has lasted a very long time, is based on problems to do with territory, as well as cultural differences which are sometimes treated in an exaggerated manner.
The long-term solution is a protected, secure Israeli state, along with a sustainable Palestinian state.
This solution cannot be achieved, however, through terrorist attacks or armed actions.
They need to renounce terrorist acts and turn their concerns to creating a normal political climate, facilitating the election of politicians to lead the state, who genuinely wish to resolve this conflict through negotiation. (GA) Mr President, I would like to lend my support to those condemning the attacks and to show my solidarity with the people of Gaza.
Minister Schwarzenburg says that the European Union cannot do very much.
The European Union should abandon the upgrade of relations with Israel and the agreements that are currently in force should be cancelled until Israel fulfils its duties under international law.
The blame that was put on those same people was wrong - we must be clear in saying that the biggest victims here are people, the innocent people of Gaza. (PL) It is with great pain that we observe what is going on in the Gaza strip.
We do not support Hamas' methods of fighting and provocation, but Israel has chosen a disproportionate means of resolving its dispute with the Palestinian people.
International opinion is against the continuation of this war.
The European Union and the UN, supported by many countries, should intervene decisively.
Hamas has to stop firing rockets at Israel.
If we continue to talk in this manner, in a week's time 1 500 people will probably be dead.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I will be brief because it was a very long debate.
Let me say first of all, as a member of the Middle East Quartet for four years now, the European Union has a role to play, but of course we do not have the strongest role to play.
I am not yet sure whether this is really confirmed, but there will also be a Hamas press conference in the evening at 20.00.
I am committed to that as long as I am a member of this Middle East Quartet.
No excessive violence can be excused, yet we have to look deeper into the origins of the conflict.
A terrorist grouping which is cynically using its own people as a shield against attacks is not interested in negotiating a true peace.
Furthermore, we need to take into account that Hamas has assumed an important role in the chain of terrorist movements which lead to Hezbollah and the Tehran terrorist regime.
The EU must exercise its authority to address first and foremost the roots of the conflict.
To avoid further killing of Arabs and Israelis, the Arab partners have to recognise unconditionally Israel's right to existence and contribute to stopping the infiltration of extremist movements and even more deadly weapons to this region.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, it is an incontrovertible fact that the civilian population in Gaza and southern Israel have been deprived of the right to an existence worthy of human beings.
One news agency told a story of two children who were about to cross the road in Gaza.
There are clearly two guilty parties when it comes to Gaza's massive humanitarian crisis.
Israel's disproportionate attack on the already frail and desperate Palestinian enclave is another indication of its indifference to international humanitarian obligations.
As a first step, Israel should allow humanitarian aid into Gaza, where an improvement to living conditions would also constitute one of the paths to peace in the long term.
Egypt has a special responsibility, because of matters to do with borders, and its role as mediator with the Union has given us hope.
According to Nobel Peace Prize Winner Martti Ahtisaari, peace is a matter of will.
Despite all the words, there has been no let-up in the bombardment of Gaza, which has, so far, resulted in the deaths of 139 children and injury to 1 271.
This has to stop.
It is incumbent on the international community to redouble its efforts to find a solution.
in writing. - (FI) We are all now witnessing the wholesale slaughter of civilians by Israeli soldiers in Gaza.
It could not happen without the political right-wing elite in the United States of America and the EU closing their eyes.
In Bosnia-Herzegovina it took at least 10 000 for peace negotiations to begin, for peacekeepers to arrive on site and for disarmament to begin.
Since that time it has not been possible to remember these victims together with the majority population.
Israel is our friend, and is entitled to defend itself as a state, but it must be firmly stated and underlined that in this case the means it has used are highly disproportionate.
