Explanations of vote (in writing). - (CS) It can be reasonably assumed that the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, as recommended for second reading (Council common position), will contribute towards reinforcing legal security of both natural persons and legal entities within the Member States.
in writing. - (NL) I remember in the early '60s there were reciprocal visa requirements for inhabitants of the countries of the then European Community and those of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The inhabitants of all the other territories, including candidate country Macedonia, have been cut off from the EU Member States since 1992.
At the embassies of the EU countries in the Macedonian capital Skopje, for instance, you find large signs listing a large number of strict obligations.
The European Parliament has previously confirmed that 'the EUSF should continue to enable action to be taken in the case of disasters which, although significant, do not achieve the minimum level required and that assistance may also be provided in special circumstances in cases where most of the population in a specific region has been affected by a disaster which will have serious, long-term effects on their living conditions'.
It is also essential to recognise the particular characteristics of Mediterranean natural disasters, such as droughts and fires - particularly in terms of time limits and eligible actions - and the possibility of higher levels of financial assistance for 'cohesion' countries and 'convergence' regions in the event of a disaster.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the protocol amending the agreement on TRIPS and Access to Medicines because I strongly believe the EU should be a key actor in the promotion of public health and access to medicines to all in the third world.
The dramatic and unacceptable situation caused in these countries by the application of 'intellectual property rights' in the area of health, particularly in the fight against diseases such as malaria, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, has been highlighted and warned about for a long time.
Therefore I voted against the report in writing. - Keeping a record of all debates and making them available to the public could help Euro-scepticism.
It is all the more unacceptable because at the same time the same institution is spending EUR 100 million a year on its own propaganda.
To say nothing of the Commission, which spends more than EUR 200 million on vital activities such as the large-scale broadcasting of pornographic internet videos that are supposed to be promoting European cinema.
The European Parliament is trying to make a big thing of the fact that speakers are speaking to the whole of Europe as spokespersons for their European groups, but at the same time we are going to refuse subsequent access to their statements and restrict availability by cutting back on translations into different languages.
in writing. - (FR) The French Members of the Independence and Democracy Group voted against the Corbett report on the amendment of Rule 173 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament which seeks to abolish the full and systematic translation of parliamentary debates.
It would probably be the same as someone trying to understand the so-called 'simplified' treaty and attempting to replace the 400 new clauses contained in the existing treaties, since here too, apparently, no consolidation version has been made available during the ratification process.
in writing. - (NL) The decision of the Secretariat of Parliament to no longer report the debates in plenary in every language went unnoticed in 2006.
I agree that too much time and money is spent on translating debates and documents into the 23 official languages of our Union.
in writing. - (PT) Multilingualism is much more than an expression of the cultural diversity of the European Union.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Corbett report on the amendment of Rule 173 relating to the verbatim report of proceedings, even though I regret the adoption of a whole series of amendments recommending the verbatim translation of the reports into all the official languages.
To those hard-line advocates of multilingualism I would say, somewhat euphemistically, that it is a fiction to claim that, without this extension to the translation process, the European Parliament would be the only parliamentary assembly in the world not to have all its proceedings and debates translated in hardcopy into all the relevant languages.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against the proposal in the Corbett report and I did so for the same reasons that I have previously opposed the scrapping of the budget for translating the verbatim report of our sessions in this House.
If we need to economise, we would do better to choose different areas of the budget.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which advocates the establishment of a European Statistical Governance Advisory Board in response to a Commission proposal to improve the production of EU-wide statistics.
in writing. - I voted for this uncontroversial report, proposing the establishment of a European Advisory Committee on Community Statistical Information Policy.
in writing. - (FR) Mrs Castex voted for the Mantovani report on the establishment of a European Qualifications Framework.
This French Member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament welcomes the future introduction of the European Qualifications Framework, which will facilitate transnational mobility for workers and learners, while at the same time meeting the requirements of the labour market by way of a common reference point for the transposition of qualification levels.
Mrs Castex believes that the EQF, as a tool for comparing, translating and converting the qualifications of one Member State to those of another, will respect the diversity of the certification systems and the richness of the qualifications that exist in the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) This report contains several contradictions and we are critical of the compromise accepted by the majority of the European Parliament on the establishment of a European Qualifications Framework.
However, there are positive aspects to the recognition of qualifications among the various Member States which should be supported.
In my opinion ultra-liberal globalisation is a machine for destroying the economic, social and cultural fabric of nations.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, I voted in favour of adopting the report on the recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning.
I am convinced that setting up the European Qualifications Framework will facilitate access to the European labour market.
The European Qualifications Framework should be used to facilitate comparison of levels of qualification.
It is very important for the Member States to garner support for the implementation of the European Qualifications Framework, notably by the exchange of best practice.
The European Qualifications Framework Advisory Group mentioned in the report is in a position to ensure the cohesion of the cooperation process and monitor the latter.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which seeks the establishment of a European Qualifications Framework to help with the EU-wide recognition of the qualifications that people receive.
in writing. - (EL) The adoption of the European Qualifications Framework reinforces EU intervention in the Member States' education systems, homogenisation, and adaptation to predetermined quality and performance indicators.
It is yet another way of replacing education with flexible 'learning', outside the socially instituted process of education.
The structure of the European Qualifications Framework is based on eight vertical levels, termed 'reference levels', defined in terms of three horizontal criteria - knowledge, skills and competence - thus enabling individuals to better integrate in the labour market on completion of a learning process.
The Member States should therefore make use of the European Qualifications Framework to improve the lifelong learning programmes.
in writing. - (PT) The globalisation of the economy is a question for which Europe has not yet found a clear and convincing answer.
The creation of a common reference framework for the recognition, comparability and transfer of qualifications originating from different systems is fundamental to the development of a decisive component of the European project, in other words the mobility of workers facilitated in this case by the portability of their qualifications.
More and better skills among European workers could help to ensure better organisation, more innovation and improved competitiveness among our undertakings. (LT) It is a shame that the launch of SIS II keeps being postponed.
Today we have adopted a resolution on this important issue.
We are so far behind schedule that it is essential to find a way out of the situation that would enable us to use the SIS 1+ network after 13 November 2008.
The costs will be distributed between the Community budget and Member States.
in writing. - We do not oppose the suggested temporary solution in order to guarantee the existence of a network for SIS 1+ for the period from 13 November to 17 December 2008.
That is why we have chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. - (DE) We already have a major problem with organised criminal gangs and illegal immigrants who tend to congregate in border areas where they are also easier to apprehend than in cities.
The expansion of Schengen is, after all, a major responsibility for all the countries involved.
Indeed, the question is whether Schengen should not be abolished in part, especially since the Austrian Interior Ministry's report on human trafficking indicates that almost 50% of illegals in Austria have entered the country across the Schengen border with Italy.
in writing. - I do not oppose the suggested temporary solution to guarantee the existence of a network for SIS 1+ for the period from 13 November to 17 December 2008.
This is why I voted for the report prepared by my Slovak colleague, Mrs Irena Belohorská, who is a recognised expert in the field of prevention and treatment of cancer diseases.
The report can inspire consumers not to choose, at a market or in a supermarket, only the best-looking produce but to give priority, for the sake of their health, to less visually appealing but healthier bioproducts. (CS) All of us wish to breathe clean air and halt the melting of the glaciers.
At stake is also Europe's dependency on gas and oil imports.
We must therefore invest in the development of renewable sources and tackle issues of nuclear power plants safety, in particular the question of final disposal of radioactive waste.
In this way we could obtain up to 14% of our energy from clean sources.
We cannot ignore, however, the fact that 32% of our energy comes from fossil fuels, employing 300 000 people and substantially polluting the environment.
in writing. - (PT) It is well-known that, in July 2006, the Commission presented a Thematic Strategy on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides, together with a proposal for a directive establishing a framework for Community Action to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides and a proposal for a regulation concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, with the aim of reducing the general risks and negative impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment.
The risks associated with pesticide use have already been reduced, but, in some areas, particularly in countries which have for a long time used intensive agriculture, these can still be found in the soil and water in undesirable quantities.
This also means that countries such as Portugal, with more traditional agriculture, should receive more support in order to maintain less intensive agricultural production.
in writing. - (PL) I welcome the fact that the European Parliament has adopted a new directive on the production and use of pesticides.
In response to these clear expectations expressed by European society, it was appropriate also to support a ban on the use of pesticides in rural and urban public areas.
in writing. - (DE) The Thematic Strategy on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides is an important addition to the proposal for a regulation and a directive which has been voted on at first reading today.
The Thematic Strategy is needed because the use of pesticides in the European Union has not decreased, despite the successful measures adopted voluntarily by some Member States between 1992 and 2003, and remains at a high level.
The fact that Germany, which has 17 nuclear power plants, produces six times more CO2 pollution than France, with its 59 nuclear power stations, is very persuasive.
I voted in favour of the report and would like to stress the importance of EU assistance for the construction of nuclear or other environmentally friendly power plants. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I just feel a need to clarify a few points about the new generation of nuclear technology.
However, the new generation of nuclear technology, which is clean and safe and environmentally friendly, is undoubtedly necessary to confront the problem of energy supply and climate change.
The energy mix must hence be updated and, along with renewables, clean coal and gas, nuclear will enable Europe to limit its dependence in future.
To conclude, I believe that the choice of energy mix - just three more seconds please - to ensure security of energy supply for the Union in coming years must be altered as research progresses and in particular as new technologies develop. (DE) Madam President, my colleagues from my delegation and I myself voted against the Reul report because we do not believe that nuclear energy is either safe or clean, and nor do we believe in the new generation of nuclear power plants and the new generation of nuclear energy.
If it really is the case - and there are reports and statistics about this - that nuclear energy is to have a massive impact in terms of reducing our CO2 emissions, then we will have to have a substantial increase in the number of our nuclear power stations.
For that reason - and I will speak more on this subject when the next report comes round - effective measures to improve energy efficiency and also to cut CO2 emissions from cars would be a better way of making Europe a healthier place and convincing other countries and continents to follow suit.
We question the value to the environment of synthetic fuels produced from fossil sources, or hydrogen gas extracted with energy from the same origin, or nuclear energy, as none of these energy sources is sustainable in the long term from an environmental or supply point of view.
We think that CO2 capture can be an important part of reducing CO2 emissions, but other energy-saving, efficiency-boosting measures and the development of renewable energy are more sustainable in the long term and should be the final goal.
In the EU, however, there still appears to be a fixation with nuclear power, which is not only reflected in its glowing description as an 'environmentally friendly source of energy', which itself is a mockery, but also in the generous funding of the nuclear research budget.
I see in this a failure to rethink our approach in any discernible way, which is another reason why I reject the report which is the subject of the vote.
in writing. - (PT) When it launched the Energy Package at the beginning of this year, the European Commission highlighted the need for a technological action plan for fossil fuels and underlined the fundamental requirement for a pragmatic approach towards nuclear energy.
As a world leader, the European Union must also take the lead in the development of modern energy technologies whilst maintaining all the relevant economic and environmental standards.
in writing. - (SV) I have chosen to support the report because the EU has conducted an unusually balanced discussion of the need to include nuclear energy in Europe's future energy mix.
If we are to meet future energy demand without greater dependence on fossil fuels and rising CO2 emissions, the development of safe, new nuclear energy will become increasingly important.
Unfortunately, nuclear energy is not included among the measures that are considered to be realistic with a view to achieving the target of between 20% and 30% by 2020. (CS) Today we gave the car industry the task of developing engines which will reduce CO2 emissions to less than 120 g/km.
Currently the figure stands at 157 g.
I want to warn, however, those who applauded this proposal that reducing emissions is greatly hindered by the increasing number of drivers in general as well as the high number of drivers driving old vehicles.
This is why I supported other proposals, related to fines for exceeding emission limits and especially fiscal measures and car fleet renewal support. (SK) The report just adopted on the future CO2 strategy for cars contributes without any doubt to one of the most polarised debates taking place in the European Parliament at present.
This is why I voted in favour of the amendments that leave out the controversial paragraphs 36 to 41 of the report.
The outcome of the vote is a clear political signal in favour of preparing European legislation dealing with the issue of cutting CO2 emissions. (DE) Madam President, we do still have the legislation by means of which Parliament can demonstrate that we take climate protection seriously in Europe, and we need to summon all our efforts so that we can genuinely achieve, through that legislation, everything that we have not voted on today.
I think it is regrettable that we have not committed to a 120 g/km ceiling from 2012.
I voted against the proposal because with it we are moving away from an integrated approach, contained in the earlier strategy documents, and placing the whole burden of CO2 emissions reduction on the European car industry instead.
Such an approach overall turns CO2 emissions reduction into a dogma which, when translated into future binding legislation, will result in a reduction in our competitiveness. (DE) Madam President, I voted against the Davies report because, in my view, we have taken what is, in essence, an unacceptable and unrealistic decision by envisaging uniform CO2 efficiency categories for cars.
In essence, the decisions that we have taken are at the expense of employment and the consumer.
In technical terms, we have moved away from the integrated approach which would have been essential to create a situation in which everyone contributes to cutting CO2 emissions, not only the car manufacturers but also the manufacturers of other vehicle components.
On the voting list: firstly, there was no mention of paragraph 3; secondly, I think we should look again at what happened about Amendments 52 and 51.
in writing. - (FR) Mrs Castex voted for the Davies report on the reduction of CO2 emissions from passenger cars and light-commercial vehicles.
While France continues to be monopolised by the Grenelle Environment Forum, the European Union has in turn added another valuable building block to the quality of our environment by adopting a strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from private vehicles.
in writing. - (SV) We have essentially voted in favour of Mr Davies' report on a strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from cars.
It is important to find more environmentally friendly alternatives to using cars.
The European Union must commit itself to an ambitious and realistic target for reducing average emissions from all vehicles placed on the EU market.
If verifiable and measurable actions are to be taken by the automotive industry after 2011, setting 2015 as the date for achieving a threshold of 125 g/km seems perfectly reasonable to me.
When it comes to climate change the priority must be to reduce CO2 emissions in absolute terms.
in writing. - (NL) The Davies report deserves support because of the political signal it sends.
That is why I warmly support the compromise to achieve a maximum of 125g CO2/km by 2015.
For the Netherlands, the Davies report has another extra dimension that is undeniable.
Having initially voted in favour of the report in the direct voting in plenary, I then withdrew my vote in writing, as noted in the parliamentary records of 25 October 2007.
in writing. - I voted for the original version of this report, which proposed tough limits on emissions of 120g carbon dioxide/kilometre by 2012.
The overall strategy is good, but it is a pity it has been weakened unnecessarily.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has approved the Community Strategy for reducing CO2 emissions from passenger cars and I welcome this very much.
Nevertheless, I believe that the message that this vote has sent to the Commission and to the international community at large could have been a more ambitious one.
The 120 g/km threshold for CO2 was first put forward in 1995 as a feasible target for the automotive industry.
As we know, a reduction of around 5% in greenhouse gas emissions from the EU-25 was achieved between 1990 and 2004.
However, this date has been in discussion for years, and the industry has known what to expect for a very long time.
The issue which we must always consider, however, is balancing environmental interests and the interests of the car industry, as this is also in the interests of jobs and competitiveness in the European Union.
It is more likely to result in increased prices and reduced consumption, particularly in view of the global increase in prices.
The proposed coordination of excise duties would constitute an unbearable burden to new Member States.
The proposed consolidation of tax bases at EU level would have been more appropriate for the economies of the 15 old Member States, as they have similar development levels.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats believe first and foremost that taxation policy should be a national matter.
The report also stresses the fiscal sovereignty of the Member States.
We chose to vote in favour of the report as in many ways it stresses the role of taxation policy in the Member States as regards employment, welfare and the environment, as well as a well-functioning internal market.
in writing. - (FR) I supported Amendment 20, as tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which seeks to delete paragraph 17 of the Wagenknecht report concerning the contribution of taxation to the Lisbon strategy.
While taxation is still essentially a matter of national sovereignty, it has very quickly become apparent that we need to ensure a minimum degree of fiscal coordination between the Member States.
Yet in the report that is being voted on today, paragraph 17 now seeks to re-examine this very system and proposes to replace it with a code of conduct.
What is more, I believe even less in the effectiveness of a code of conduct on excise duty matters: this is likely to provide even greater temptation to unpick the EU's rules and practices, which would in turn create the sorry situation of unfair competition in this area.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against the final text because, among other issues, it assumed a position of defence of economic and financial groups, as highlighted by the rapporteur who removed her name from the report before the final vote and called for it to be rejected.
Furthermore, we consider that the fiscal sovereignty of Member States in terms of defining their own fiscal policy must be respected in all discussions on this issue.
in writing. - (SV) The June List is firmly opposed to this report, which seeks to move towards a common taxation and customs policy for the EU.
In the report it is also possible to see how the Lisbon Strategy opens the door for the EU to tackle new policy areas, with supranationalism, new projects and increased costs in their wake.
The common consolidated corporate tax base, which is another controversial theme in the report, would in my view bring an element of coordination to fiscal policy that will render European corporate taxation less bureaucratic and more efficient.
in writing. - (EL) Tax policy is used to redistribute income for the benefit of capital.
This is also reflected in OECD figures, which show that indirect tax in the form of VAT rose to 6.9% of GDP in 2006.
in writing. - While the report contains a number of positive elements concerning greater fairness in the distribution of the tax burden, I cannot support any increased role for the European Union in relation to taxation, which would further undermine the economic sovereignty of Member States.
in writing. - The Fine Gael delegation in the European Parliament decided to oppose the Report on the final vote because of the proliferation of references to the CCCTB and related matters.
in writing. - (DE) In its vote today, the European Parliament has shown that a majority of its Members support a taxation policy which serves the interests of the top ten thousand and is to the detriment of the large majority of people living in the European Union.
Today, the House has passed up the opportunity to heed calls for a more equitable and socially compatible taxation policy and adopt this as the clear position of the European Parliament.
in writing. - (SV) Today I chose to support the report on the contribution of taxation policy to the Lisbon process.
It is also important to lay down the Member States' sovereignty in the field of taxation.
We also know that the treatment of respiratory cancer diseases and other illnesses costs us up to EUR 50 million.
I appeal to the Member States of the European Union, including my own Member State, to introduce without delay effective laws that would result in a smoking ban in workplaces and restaurants, and in effective measures for reducing the overall use of tobacco. (RO) At the same time with voting on this report, I would like to emphasize its importance for the future of the European citizens and of the entire European Union.
Suffice it to remind the House that the deaths of 650 000 people a year are smoking related.
This figure includes 80 000 passive smokers, some of whom are children.
As we heard earlier, 650 000 people die each year from the effects of smoking.
Article 11 incorporates the notion that smoking should be banned in private cars everywhere in the EU if underage children are present.
Nevertheless, I voted against the report on a smoke-free Europe as a matter of principle, for it is true to say that nowhere else has the state asserted itself quite so successfully as in the fight against smoking in public.
That is the reason why so many of our fellow Members simply did not have the courage to vote against the report, even though they do not want this nannying policy either.
Of course I am in favour of protecting non-smokers, children and young people, but a matter of principle is at stake.
Previous speakers have already referred to it and of course I entirely agree that this issue, which is in any case essentially flawed, must come under the competence of national authorities, not that of the European Union.
in writing. - (DE) I welcome all measures in the Member States to inform citizens about the risks of smoking.
In my view, all these measures fall within the purview of the Member States, not the European Union.
I have therefore rejected the Florenz report in the final vote.
I personally have never smoked in my life.
That means no more smoking in any Parliament premises.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for this report which seeks not only to support Member States in the strict measures they have adopted to combat tobacco addiction, but also to promote better public health.
It therefore seems essential to me that we should clearly and unilaterally ban smoking in such places.
Imposing strict legislation designed to provide maximum protection for the health of our citizens cannot effectively be achieved without a real effort at alerting and informing the public as to the risks associated with tobacco use.
in writing. - (DE) Smoking bans are, of course, in the interests of public health and, for public buildings, are therefore to be welcomed.
It is hypocritical, however, for the European Union to attempt to prescribe smoking bans wholesale for all Member States when it has shown itself to be incapable of even reaching an agreement on facilities here in the House.
I believe it will contribute to public health protection and help substantially in reducing the harmful effects of smoking, both in young people and in chronic smokers.
in writing. - I strongly support smoking bans in public places to protect public health and to avert the dangers of passive smoking.
It contains thousands of chemical substances, including over 250 carcinogenic and toxic components.
We must bear this in mind and ensure that these people are able to live in a clean and safe environment. (SK) I voted against the report because it does not clearly reflect the European Union position on Turkey.
Turkey continues to occupy a Member State of the European Union: 40% of Cypriot territory is under Turkish military occupation.
Five hundred Orthodox churches have been destroyed while everywhere in the European Union Muslims are building mosques.
A privileged partnership with Turkey, instead of full membership, will be quite enough. (DE) Madam President, I did not vote for the resolution on Turkey because I am greatly concerned that the Turkish Parliament has agreed a military strike against Iraq.
In my view, we should spare ourselves the associated risks. (NL) Madam President, I voted against the Oomen-Ruijten resolution because I think that Parliament should play a more active and a more ambitious role in monitoring the negotiation process with Turkey.
The way things are going we should not be at all surprised that more and more citizens in the European Union are turning their backs on the Union. (NL) Madam President, this new vote on Turkish accession is a clear illustration of the fact that not only for most of our citizens is Europe far away and of no great concern to them, but that the European institutions themselves are increasingly alienating themselves from the citizens of Europe.
A mindset where national identity protects itself with a penal code in which Article 301 is a continual frame of reference, and in which the mistakes of a nation are denied, is in serious conflict with this custom.
For all these reasons I have decided to support the adoption of this resolution at the final vote in plenary.
The resolution is therefore illuminating in this respect as it underlines 'the importance of Turkey as a transit hub for the diversification of gas supplies to the EU' and 'energy projects involving Turkey in the South Caucasus', and also 'the geo-strategic position of Turkey in the region' whose 'role in transportation and logistics will become more important in the coming years'.
in writing. - (EL) The report on the progress of Turkey's course of accession to the EU includes utterly spurious congratulations to the Turkish Government and the new president.
in writing. - (FR) This resolution loses its impact because important amendments relating to the recognition of the Armenian genocide have been rejected by the majority of Members.
I am and will remain in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union.
In paragraph 5 of the resolution of 28 September 2005 it in fact called on Turkey to recognise the Armenian genocide and regarded this admission as a precondition for accession to the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) Regardless of the end result, the current negotiations with Turkey must bring about the reforms which the country so desperately needs and which, in themselves, are the most important aspect of a country's potential accession to the EU.
For all these reasons, the EU's strategy must be to negotiate seriously and firmly.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the resolution that urges Turkey to accelerate the pace of its reforms.
The report that we have voted on urges the Turkish Government to launch a political initiative aimed at finding a lasting settlement to the Kurdish problem.
The people of Europe are concerned about ill-prepared decisions on any future enlargement and about the EU's capacity to absorb any more countries after the huge wave of new accessions that took place between 2004 and 2007.
Turkey apparently refuses to understand that there are 27 Member States of the European Union and that one of these is the Republic of Cyprus!
Turkey is playing a dangerous role in the region and the EU should not lend any support to these populist and aggressive actions.
in writing. - (SK) I did not vote for the European Parliament resolution on EU-Turkey relations because enlargement of the European Union and Turkey's entry into the Community are rather serious matters requiring more detailed knowledge and more intensive debate.
The safety of Christians living in Turkey and respect for their rights are not guaranteed.
