No member of the Council is here yet, unfortunately: they must be finishing off their preparation of the new British proposal. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to rise on a point of order, to offer the Presidency the opportunity to request that this debate be rescheduled for this afternoon.
To engage in some kind of shadow boxing when we do not know what the proposals are seems to me to be really quite ridiculous and a waste of our time.
The Presidency-in-Office is not here to be able to make this request.
With regard to your request for the Council to refer in its speech to the new proposal which is apparently going to be made public today, I must inform you that yesterday, at the lunch to mark the end of their Presidency, I asked the British Presidency to do that, since it would appear strange to Parliament that a new proposal that is going to be made public today should not be included in the debate, since it would surely be a merely formal debate.
I did not receive a guarantee but I did note a degree of understanding that I imagine will in practice lead, at least, to a foretaste of what the Presidency is going to say later.
If that is not the case, I certainly believe that Parliament would have good reason to feel under-valued.
We agreed to restart our work in several areas, in particular research, universities, demographics, energy, immigration, security and external relations.
The most important factors are as follows: to see to it that all Community policies are underpinned by the principles of sustainable development; to make a firm commitment to accomplish the aims by scheduling regular meetings between our institutions with a view to taking stock of the situation and of reviewing the Member States’ practices; and more systematically to involve the main actors in the area of sustainable development, and not only the institutions, but also the world of business – which must make significant efforts – as well, of course, as the regional and local authorities.
The Commission will work closely with Parliament and the Council to prepare as well as possible for this important stage.
You can count on my personal commitment and on that of the College.
In this context, the success of the Montreal Conference comes as very welcome news.
It shows that the European Commission’s and the European Union’s leadership in the context of climate change has borne fruit.
The national programmes that have been established show that the Lisbon Strategy’s new system of governance is beginning to be integrated by the Member States.
I should now like, for my part, to note the following points: there is clearly a very close link between the economic challenges we identified at the informal summit and those that the Member States are identifying in their national programmes.
The Commission will assume all of its responsibilities in its report in January by explaining in a clear and constructive way the strengths and weaknesses of these national programmes.
The Commission is determined to make progress in the development of a horizontal approach to migration issues.
This approach would consist of looking at immigration from the angle of prosperity, solidarity and security within the European Union and of doing so in close cooperation with the third countries concerned.
The Commission also welcomes the comprehensive strategy to combat terrorism, which should result from the forthcoming European Council.
We desperately need these instruments in order to strengthen the effectiveness of our action.
This is, once again, one of the areas in which there is distinct European added value when viewed in the light of the contribution Europe can make to the action carried out at national level.
Finally, I am very pleased that the three institutions should be in agreement on the initiative taken by the Commission with regard to the European consensus for development.
As you know, this consensus will also – we hope – be the subject of the European Council conclusions.
For the first time in 50 years of cooperation, this European consensus for development defines a common set of values, principles, aims and resources designed to eradicate poverty.
With the adoption of the European Parliament’s resolution on the European Union’s development policy statement, this consensus becomes a genuine European tripartite statement on development.
We must now take the promises of extra money and apply them in specific ways in the real world.
The Commission will actively call on the Member States to honour their commitments.
Once again, we are proud, as Europeans, to champion this dossier at international level, but we must now turn this ambition and these commitments into practical measures.
As you know, whenever I speak about financial matters I switch to English!
I have been doing that for the last month, so I shall now continue in English.
I know that there are other technical options for keeping spending programmes going, but let us be frank: these are temporary measures only.
To unblock negotiations in October, I set out five proposals which have helped to kick-start discussions.
On Monday I set out to Prime Minister Blair and other national leaders and to the President of this Parliament principles and 12 specific proposals to reach what I believe can be an ambitious and fair agreement this week on the financial perspectives.
I welcome the support I have received within this House and amongst the Member States for the Commission’s position.
The Hampton Court Summit showed the scale of the challenges before us and the role which the European Union must play in meeting them.
Europe’s credibility is severely damaged when some do not put their money where their mouth is.
It must avoid reversing recent reforms, such as the shift to rural development in agriculture, and it cannot downgrade the essential task of reconnecting with our citizens.
The European Council must leave room for these issues to be debated within Parliament and the Council, as the two arms of the budgetary authority.
The principle of flexibility should be carried through to the review clause.
Of course, any change must be agreed unanimously, but it is essential that this Commission and this Parliament have the opportunity to launch a genuine debate, without taboos, about the future of the European Union’s spending and resources.
The budget also needs to be fair: fair in spending, but fair in contributions too.
I think that we have come a long way in this respect, with a true recognition that the impact of enlargement on the budget has changed the situation.
That change should be linked to enlargement and, since this enlargement is permanent, so should the change be permanent, just as it was when the United Kingdom agreed changes to its abatement in 1988 and 1999.
A two-speed cohesion policy, with one set of rules focused on competitiveness and another on financial transfers, is not the way to build a competitive Europe or a cohesive Europe.
We need to ensure the coherence of our instruments.
If there is some differentiation – and in some cases we need differentiation – it should be based on objective criteria in terms of the relative development of the Member States or the different regions, and not on those who were already members and new members.
As you know, we take our accountability to this House and to the public at large very seriously.
The Commission made great efforts to develop a package of measures which were simple and comprehensible and will permit high standards of control.
The proposals on managing cohesion policy and voluntary modulation must be revised.
But in the next financial perspectives, we have to accommodate Bulgaria and Romania in all the institutions: in the Commission, in Parliament, in all the rest.
I have to say that we do not have the resources now for that.
So, if you want to have Bulgaria and Romania, we should have this in our budget.
I fervently hope that when I address the Conference of Presidents next week our task will be to chart the path towards an interinstitutional agreement that will take Europe into the next decade with real confidence.
Let me also assure this House that I have listened with great care to the statement that we have just heard from the President of the Commission and I look forward to the contributions of honourable Members to this important and timely debate that we are having here today ahead of the European Council.
This week’s European Council in Brussels takes place at the end of a tumultuous year for the European Union.
It has been a year in which the voters of France and the Netherlands rejected the draft Constitutional Treaty; a year in which the need for Europe to face the realities of a globalised economy has become ever clearer; and most tragically, a year in which terrorism has once again struck in the streets and trains of a European capital.
We have shown a sheer determination, which Mr Schulz has been generous enough to acknowledge in previous debates in this Chamber, in the face of terrorism which has reaffirmed the strength of our solidarity, our democratic values and our common resolve to see those values triumph.
We have asserted Europe’s truly global role and responsibility, whether it is in New York, in Montreal last week, the Gaza Strip, or in Aceh, Indonesia.
Let me put on record, on this occasion, our gratitude to the Members of this Parliament for the cooperation they have shown in facing this challenging but shared agenda.
The primary task facing the European Council this week is both necessarily and appropriately to agree the financial perspectives of the European Union for 2007-2013, to which the President of the Commission directed the majority of his remarks this morning.
It has always been one of the key challenges of our Presidency.
Following the failure to reach political agreement last June, we listened to the calls of those, not least in the new Member States, who underlined the importance of agreement being reached by the European Council this year, and we have worked long and hard towards that end.
The proposals we put on the table a week last Monday, which were discussed by foreign ministers first in the informal conclave last week and then again briefly at the General Affairs Council this week, are challenging for Member States – I acknowledge that – and so, too, will be the revised proposals which we will table later today.
Those revised proposals will be realistic, too, given the budgetary context in which most Member States are now operating nationally.
We remain convinced, on the basis of our extensive consultations with other Member States, including at the level of Heads of Government over the last week when a number of Heads of Government came to London and there was a range of bilateral contact beyond London, that these proposals remain the best and only basis for agreement within the Council and subsequent discussion with Parliament.
They are an important and necessary step in the direction of a modern, reformed budget, fit for the purposes of the 21st century, about which our Prime Minister spoke so eloquently on the eve of the British Presidency at the European Parliament.
The review we propose to hold of all Community expenditure in 2008 and 2009 offers us a chance to assess the global and domestic challenges which the Union faces, where and how Community action and spending can best add value to national and regional efforts, and how the resources to sustain that spending can be most fairly found.
Amidst all the debate in the press and the media, let us keep our eyes on the very considerable prize before us: a budget that enshrines a fundamental shift of spending towards the new Member States, EUR&#160;260&#160;billion in receipts for the new Member States over the next seven years, EUR&#160;2&#160;500 for every man, woman and child.
The economic dynamism of those new Member States is already truly an inspiration for us all.
This will deliver greater improvements in the infrastructure and skills which this Union collectively will need if it is to rise to the global economic challenge and if it is to deliver the social justice which all of our people rightly demand.
First, there is the follow-up to the October informal Heads of Government meeting at Hampton Court.
At the summit we agreed to make more concrete progress in a series of key areas: boosting research and development with the creation of a European research council; improving our universities and their links with business; creating a more competitive energy market; examining how migration can boost our economy; how we can use more extensive and better quality child care to give people a fairer balance between work and family life; how we can re-skill workers to meet the global challenge, and how we can strengthen Europe’s place in the world and our collective security.
This has borne fruit these last few months with the launch of the Lisbon national reform programmes, setting a forward-looking agenda of reforms for every Member State.
That includes simplifying European Union legislation, both for citizens and for European businesses, and underlining our common responsibility as Council, Commission and Parliament to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens.
Thirdly, we will adopt a Europe-wide counter-terrorism strategy, creating a clear and coherent framework for the European Union’s work on counter-terrorism and setting out concrete objectives for action.
The strategy enhances the European Union’s work to prevent people turning to terrorism.
Fifthly, let me highlight the regular report on European security and defence policy to the Council.
The report will register the difference our European missions are already making on the ground, including the two latest missions: in Aceh – our first in Asia – and on the Rafah border crossing in Gaza, a practical manifestation of the Union’s longstanding commitment to the lives and freedoms of the Palestinian people.
This will renew our commitment to a secure, prosperous and peaceful Middle East, as well as our efforts to support political, social and economic reform within that region.
The declaration will reflect what the European Union has achieved over the course of our Presidency: the first ever EuroMed Summit in November, which has set the agenda for our future relations with our southern Mediterranean neighbours, support for disengagement from Gaza, building Palestinian institutional and security capacity, launching the European Union border assistance mission to Rafah and increased European Union engagement with Iraq.
But it will also set out the continued challenges that we face in that region: the search for peace between Israel and its neighbours, the political processes within Iraq and Lebanon, Iran’s nuclear programme – a subject that we have debated here in this Chamber – and ending support for groups that use violence.
Let me just pause here to note that the Presidency has been unequivocal in its condemnation of the comments attributed to President Ahmadinejad of Iran which relate to Israel, firstly saying that Israel should ‘be wiped off the map’ and then denying the Holocaust and calling for Israel to be removed to Europe.
Finally, Heads of State or Government will also adopt a comprehensive global strategy for Africa, tackling peace and security, governance, regional integration, trade and development assistance.
The European consensus on development is the second theme of today’s debate.
It is right that we should return to the subject of development as we approach the end of this year and the end of this Presidency.
The European Union set the tone for the Millennium Review Summit with its commitment from the International Development Ministers to increase aid back in June, a decision that was then ratified by Ecofin.
As the consensus on development shows, however, this is not the time for us to rest on our laurels: we must not only spend the money but also spend that money well.
This tripartite declaration sets out the aims and principles guiding European Union development cooperation efforts.
The first part is a political declaration that sets out common objectives, principles and methods for delivering development cooperation at both Member State and Community level.
The second part guides the implementation of development aid at Community level.
The Council and the Commission agreed the consensus on 22&#160;November, following extensive discussions between all relevant European Union institutions and after consultation with other key stakeholders, including European civil society.
The consensus focuses squarely on poverty eradication to help meet the Millennium Development Goals, on partner country ownership, on ensuring we provide more effective aid and on joined-up policies to promote development.
I will listen with great interest to the points that you make and ensure that they are narrated back ahead of what will be important discussions in Brussels towards the end of this week. &#160;&#160; Minister, as I imagine you know, this plenary sitting is intended to prepare for the European Council that will take place this weekend.
The Presidency regrets that you have missed an opportunity to inform Parliament of the proposal that you are going to make shortly.
I asked this yesterday of your Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, and I believe that it is a shame that this request has not been granted, undoubtedly reducing the significance of this debate.
I presume, Mr President-in-Office, that the fact that you waited until midday to present your proposals for the Financial Perspective indicates that you have chosen a time after this debate in order to allow what emerges from it to influence your proposals.
Style is, of course, important, and I would certainly concede that the British Presidency – whether in the person of the Home Secretary or any other minister, not to mention the Prime Minister and President of the European Council – has been good at getting its message across.
Indeed so, but it appears to me from the British Presidency’s proposals that what is now provided for research is less than what Mr Juncker offered us.
For us, solidarity and the community of Europeans come first and there can be no first- and second-class Europeans.
We therefore urge you to take this House, and its reforming goals seriously; we want to be able to make use of our right in both internal and external policy areas, and we will not allow the Council to disregard them.
We must unequivocally express our opposition to Ahmadinejad and our support for Israel and its right to exist.
An overwhelming majority in this House support your position and oppose the line we have just heard taken by the Council, which will not move Europe forward or foster cohesion, but will make for less solidarity in it.
He said something important that Mr Alexander has not quoted, and so I will.
Five and a half months later, Mr President-in-Office, I get the impression that that is still the case, and let me tell you what impression my group gets: whatever country holds the Presidency – not just the British – we always get told the same thing by the Presidents of the Council.
It is clear that if the Heads of State or Government constantly talk Europe down, they cannot be surprised when Europe’s peoples get the idea that their Heads of State or Government are right.
The state of affairs in the Council that you lament is one that you yourselves have brought about.
The only people in Europe who are in a permanent state of disagreement are the members of the Council of Heads of State or Government, and things have now got to such a pass that they cannot even agree on their own order of business without fearing a veto.
Fifty or sixty years ago, the European project did not call forth enthusiasm from all the peoples of Europe.
I was born where the borders of Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium meet, and when, 60 years ago, Paul-Henri Spaak or the Dutch Prime Minister or the Head of the Luxembourg Government turned up there and said that the Germans were getting more funding from the Marshall Plan, that we had to rebuild the country and establish the European Coal and Steel Community, I do not suppose that all the Luxembourgers, Belgians, Dutch and French people burst into applause.
While I am on the subject of financial frameworks, let me say that my colleague Mr Walter always does a brilliant job of analysing the things that are put before us.
In this Parliament’s proposals, set out in the Böge report, agricultural policy is given a share of 40% of the Financial Perspective over the next seven years.
The British proposal gives it 44%.
Today, we are on the .
To avoid this iceberg, Mr Alexander, you have to sail in the direction of the Böge report.
I strongly hope that, by the end of the week, Captain Blair will have avoided the iceberg and steered the British Presidency to a safe harbour and a secure financial future for the European Union.
What we expect from the Presidency is a budget that puts long-term strengths and common concerns above individual satisfaction and personal gain.
Five years ago, we said we would raise research spending to 3% of GDP by 2010.
This is not just a budget for tomorrow.
It is a budget that must provide for competitiveness and jobs for our young people.
It is a budget that must pay for the social solidarity Europe wants.
Parliament should reject any Council agreement that does our Union down.
Complicity of EU Member States in warfare using depleted uranium and white phosphorous, detention without trial, torture and turning a blind eye to a clampdown on the freedom of millions in countries with whom we cultivate strategic partnerships debases our Union.
Two days ago, the General Affairs Council called for a comprehensive approach to combating terrorism while respecting human rights.
Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Alexander, you spoke of Mr&#160;Blair’s eloquence.
It is extraordinary, and if the policy you are proposing to us is truly on a par with the manner in which you exploit this Parliament and the European institutions when you need them – I am talking about data retention, which you cannot arrange for your own Parliament to approve, because you have the obligation and the duty to go via ours – if this is how you conceive of Europe, then I have one thing to say to you: not only will you fail – I do not care whether the UK Presidency fails – but Europe will also fail, and that is dangerous.
The fact of the matter is that these miserly governments, to which Mr Watson has already referred, and who do exactly what the Council wants of them, are part of the problem.
It is not one whit better than any of them, but the governments that they represent are part of the problem, too.
Not when they are in here, but when they are out there, they form part of a total artwork called the Council – and what a total work of art that is!
I would now like to say something about two things that strike me as important in this connection.
Mr Poettering is right to say that what is said by that country’s President touches and affects us all.
It cannot mean fighting against democracy.
This turnaround in the situation ought to make the outgoing Presidency reflect.
On the one hand, the new Member States would be granted EUR&#160;14 billion less in appropriations than what was proposed in the June compromise, the amount of which was itself meagre.
The great European principles of the current Presidency obviously stop at the point where major domestic interests come into play.
The letter from the six biggest net contributors announcing, two years ago, that they intended to limit future budgets to 1% of gross national product sadly re-opened this dead end.
We must arrest this wayward trend while there is still time.
We have never been more isolated, more alienated, more disliked by our European neighbours in our entire history than we are today, sitting here in this Chamber this morning – and I guess that is why Mr Blair has sent you here today to do his dirty work.
I know that many of the new Member States think that Mr Blair is behaving like Ebenezer Scrooge.
And my goodness me, Mr Barroso, you could do with a few successes, could you not?
Six more months of the Foreign Office, Mr Blair and Mr Alexander, six more months of this, and it will be obvious to all that the United Kingdom is a square peg in a round European hole.
Europe is in difficulties today because of an international situation that has led the globalisation process to be managed rather than experienced naturally, and in which there occur serious breaches of the rules that constitute the only guarantee for honest trade and fair competition.
This proposal lacks ambition and diminishes Europe’s role in the world.
The fact that President Barroso himself and the various Heads of State or Government have clearly stated their disagreement with the UK proposal, even though they are still negotiating, suggests that the proposal was probably put forward at the end of the mandate precisely because the United Kingdom is unwilling to realistically face up to the old problem of the UK rebate.
In the absence of a new Treaty, the Union is in great need of a financial equilibrium that penalises no one and can usher in a new economic policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I almost feel sorry for Mr Alexander, but I am going to resist the temptation.
However, he knows back home that the majority loathes this House and all it stands for and wants us to leave.
His deceit has left successive British governments to cope with the consequences and we have gradually come to see the EU for what it really is.
Unlike the Minister, I now want to concentrate on Mr Blair’s increasingly frantic attempts to get an agreement on the financial perspectives and the future EU budget.
In the past few weeks, he has left us breathless with his efforts at diplomacy.
Flexibility and vision is all very well, Mr Alexander, but the Prime Minister’s actions have been successful only in securing the hostility of the countries of central and eastern Europe – which thought he was their friend – while gaining not a hint of compromise on CAP reform in discussions with governments.
They will be paying more because the Prime Minister has let them and the country down.
Under this Presidency, the omens have not been good. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too regret the fact that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has come here to say nothing, but I would like to make the following comments and ask the following questions, to see if the Council can clarify things.
All of the Foreign Affairs Ministers are constantly delivering promises relating to the needs of developing third countries, or to provide relief following natural disasters, or not so natural disasters, such as famine.
This is the great gulf between the Council and Parliament.
Finally, in the face of an attack on the Union’s system of own resources, Parliament only has the right to protest, according to the Treaties; nevertheless, please be in no doubt that the existence of the financial perspective does depend on Parliament.
Do not forget that, and do not be so sure that we are going to do whatever the Council asks of us. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the reason why the current debate on the Financial Perspective is so fraught with drama is because it is not just money that is at stake.
What is at stake is firstly a climate of trust, and secondly the future of Europe.
I refer to a climate of trust because the outcome of this debate should reveal whether the promises that were made, and the British Prime Minister’s acknowledgement of the need to help weaker countries, have any kind of meaning.
Alternatively, it may reveal that the real aim is to ensure that the EU’s only priority is something else entirely, which would violate the principle of European politics, and that brings us to the second problem.
The question is whether we want a Europe that is not only enlarged, but also united, which requires a certain amount of political solidarity.
We are all aware that Europe paid a high price for such egotism over many long centuries.
There can be no compromise between egotism and the sense of national spirit.
It is for that reason that we must wait and hope that an entirely new British proposal will be put forward.
Such a proposal is the only way of resolving this crisis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for the first time in 11 years, we see a President-in-Office of the Council declining to avail himself of his right to speak in response to the first round of debate.
Six months ago, wanting to regain people’s trust, you promised them leadership.
You wanted to regain people’s trust, but, at the end of these six months, all surveys indicate that, because of your policies, people in every country have markedly less of it in you.
Turning to the Financial Perspective, you affirmed your belief in a Europe of solidarity, yet are dividing the EU financially and creating a first- and second-class Europe.
You wanted to prepare the way for the social Europe, yet what came out of Hampton Court was that the social model in Europe does not actually exist.
I would plead in favour of one aspect, however: the funding for the EU programme to support peace in the north of Ireland.
It is imperative that the opportunity for peace in Ireland is not squandered, which means that there is also an onus on the British Government to ensure political progress in Ireland in 2006. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the United Kingdom’s assumption of the EU Presidency meant that there was a chance that this bureaucratised and inefficient organisation would take the first step on the path towards major reforms, and that the voices of the smaller or less-developed Member States would be no less audible that those of the large Member States.
Six months ago in this very Chamber, the British Prime Minister said that we should forget about national egotism if we want to transform Europe into a politically credible and economically competitive continent on the basis of solidarity.
It is highly unlikely that the EU will gain a modern and development-focused multi-annual budget in the near future.
We cannot consent to an EU of this kind. &#160;&#160; Six months ago many people in this Chamber and also in the new Member States looked with hope and sympathy to the new, dynamic British Presidency and its leader.
Unfortunately, this was the basis for the British proposal for the Financial Perspective, simultaneously reducing the amount of the budget and slightly reducing the ‘British rebate’.
Here the debate is not about the roads that have not been built or the jobs that have not been created in the new Europe.
Here the debate is about the fact that you have demonstrated to our people that the principle of solidarity is nothing but fine words.
We wanted to see that by 2013 our people would be living a little more like ‘first class’ Europe.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Brussels European Council, devoted to budgetary and fiscal issues, is of the utmost importance.
Albion, embodied by the socialist Mr&#160;Blair, put forward its proposal on the 2007-2013 financial perspective just ten days before the European Council so that its partners could not present it with counter-proposals.
The big loser will, in all likelihood, be France, which will probably continue to finance the British cheque and to see its contribution to the Community budget soar on account of enlargement, while receiving less as a result of the decrease in the CAP budget.
Be that as it may, the decisions made in Brussels will bind France for many years to come and contribute, a little more, to our country’s tragic debt. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Minister, almost twenty years ago, with the Single European Act, when we opened up our borders in order to create a European Economic Area, we also decided to establish a series of financial mechanisms to help the least-developed countries to adapt their economic structures to free competition.
From that moment, cohesion became a fundamental pillar of Europe, consolidating in the financial perspectives negotiated in 1992 and 1999.
The results of that policy have been extraordinary.
As Minister Straw acknowledged a few days ago, on presenting the British Presidency’s proposal, there has been a similar increase in the commercial flows benefiting the most developed Member States and it is therefore perfectly clear that the net contributors’ budgetary deficit with the European Union is in line with the trade surplus of those countries compared to the cohesion countries.
It is therefore clear that the cohesion policy ― certainly the most effective of all Community policies ― benefits all the countries of the European Union, allowing for the true convergence of the least advantaged regions within a relatively short space of time.
Minister, the British Presidency is therefore violating that cohesion policy, which means that the financial costs of enlargement will have to be met by the least-developed territories of the European Union, despite the fact that it is the richest that benefit most from enlargement.
In line with the views approved by the European Parliament, therefore, the Council must be very aware that it cannot assume that it will have parliamentary support for a proposal such as the one that the British Presidency is putting forward at the moment.
I hope that, at noon today, Mr&#160;Blair will emerge from Sherwood Forest like a proper – and not a false - Robin Hood, who gives to the poor and takes from the rich.
We must show the necessary solidarity with the new Member States.
Mr&#160;Blair must and should show leadership so that the EU’s by now tarnished image can be polished up.
Mr&#160;Blair must show that he dares invest in the future.
I therefore call on the British Presidency to find a reasonable and balanced solution so that we might restore confidence in Europe.
The ball lies in your court. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat embarrassed because both I and the members of the Committee on Development from other political groups would have liked to see a more important subject for discussion in this debate and not merely the announcement of a document, which we have drawn up and which is certainly a positive one.
We were hoping for some kind of assessment as well, because there are in fact a great many positive points contained in the European Consensus on Development, although the budget cuts seriously undermine our ability to put this vision of development policy into practice.
The European Parliament was jointly involved, first with the Commission and then with the Council, in the analysis and debates that took place.
Now, however, we have reached a crossroads: we cannot pay for the costs of enlargement all by ourselves.
This time we cannot be the only ones to step back. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, punctuality is a virtue of kings.
The EU is waiting for sensible proposals from London, but London is behind schedule, in the same way that Mr&#160;Alexander was late getting here today.
Relations between the Commission and the Council, and also between the individual Member States, are positively icy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over 100&#160;years ago, Mr&#160;Blair’s fellow countryman, Charles Dickens, gave us a portrait of the current British Prime Minister in ‘A Christmas Carol’.
I hope that the same happens to that other miser, namely Prime Minister Blair. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Minister, President Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming European Council is a vital stage in the difficult process of building the Union.
Agreement on the financial perspective would restore certainty in our political action and confidence in the integration process, whereas failure would trigger a serious political crisis.
The need for agreement must not, however, be mistaken for a willingness to accept just any compromise.
In his inaugural speech to this House, Tony Blair promised the revitalisation of Europe and major budgetary innovations.
The Juncker proposal to reduce spending to EUR&#160;871 billion was a difficult compromise to accept, but the proposed further reduction to EUR&#160;846 billion, with substantial cuts in cohesion policies for the new Member States and in rural development, is unacceptable.
This kind of solution contradicts everything the UK Prime Minister put forward and cannot be accepted by this Parliament.
The only way to escape the squeeze affecting our countries and to give fresh impetus to our Europe is to reach an ambitious agreement that combines competitiveness and cohesion, solidarity and innovation.
To reunite Europe we have to throw out a world of privileges, a world of pusillanimity and resentments.
Prime Minister Blair told us that the EU needed a different kind of budget, in which less money was earmarked for traditional goals in the field of agricultural policy.
Instead, more money should go towards furthering modern goals, such as the development of poor regions and of the new Member States.
His words gave us hope that the EU would move beyond the era of national egotism, and that it might make some real progress in terms of modernisation.
Five months then passed in which nothing happened, and I regret to say that the proposal that was put before us after this five-month period was disappointing in the extreme.
The United Kingdom has proved itself incapable of persuading its partners to reform the common agricultural policy, and it has also been unable to forego further increases in its rebate.
The British Presidency’s proposal shows a lack of imagination, and it is based on a vision of Europe that this House finds unacceptable.
The European Parliament cannot consent to such a vision.
Mr&#160;Alexander, never before in the history of Europe have the principles of solidarity and cohesion been at such risk, and never before have European countries been so caught up in defending their own selfish and short-term interests.
With a budget that cuts spending and sets a ceiling of around 1%, with a budget that only guarantees existing privileges, there will be no investment in either growth or competitiveness or cohesion, Mr&#160;President, and Europe will be betraying itself.
The proposals put forward over the last few days by the UK Presidency on the 2007-2013 financial perspective are unacceptable for two reasons.
They sacrifice the new Member States, they erect a new wall between old and new Member States and they seem designed to preserve the British rebate, which now has no reason to exist.
With regard to agricultural spending, there is, furthermore, a hidden meaning to the proposals, which verges on a threat and which we cannot tolerate within our Union.
If the common agricultural policy is not reformed in 2008, then the United Kingdom will hold on to its rebate as it stands.
There should be no taboo subjects whatsoever in our democracy, and this is the case whether it is a question of Europe’s overall budget, the apportionment of European expenditure, regional aid, the CAP, aid for research and innovation or any other Community policy.
Nor can we accept the extensive efforts already made by the European Union in the area of agriculture being repudiated, particularly in the context of the WTO negotiations.
Europe has already done its duty on this matter and is looking forward to other agricultural powers, such as the United States, making similar efforts before Europe pursues, if necessary, its reforms.
The British Prime Minister, Mr&#160;Blair, formally declared to us in this very Chamber his desire to work for the common good of Europe, to go beyond national self-interests and to take European integration forward during his Presidency.
We are waiting for him finally to turn his words into deeds if he is to deserve the applause that a number of my fellow Members might have been slightly too quick to offer him back in June. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by apologising to the Presidency.
I also understand the Presidency is making great strides, or trying to make great strides, in introducing transparency to the Council and I would hope Mr Alexander could tell us what progress he has made on that.
Our Parliament wants to free the dynamism of new Member States and use it to the advantage of the economy of the whole Union.
The Luxembourg proposal was already scarce and at the limits of acceptability.
The British proposal has crossed the red line in terms of the overall level of commitments and unacceptable reduction of funds for the poorest Member States.
Non-agreement is better than an agreement that contradicts the very principle of European integration.
The budget is not only about figures; it is about principles and policy choices.
Our Parliament, showing self-respect, should prevent the erosion of the EU in the name of the impossible and destructive doctrine of ‘more Europe for less money’.
It is surely because of this misunderstanding that Mr Durão Barroso has not said a word about the latter, although Mr Alexander has referred to it.
Satisfaction at the process employed in drawing up the declaration; satisfaction at the initiative of the Commission and of Commissioner Louis Michel that a document should be produced to replace that of 2000; and also satisfaction at the decisive involvement of the British Presidency and of Minister Hilary Benn in this operation.
One significant change was the Commission and the Council’s will to involve Parliament in the signature and, before that, in the process that has led to the wording of the statement defining the Union’s development policy for the coming years.
Congratulations to everybody today, but I would point out that there will be great resistance if there is any intention to take with one hand tomorrow what is given today with the other. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell the President-in-Office that the United Kingdom is the main cause underlying the failure of the summit in Luxembourg.
The abandonment by the Heads of State or Government of their responsibility for Europe as a whole, along with their almost daily attempts at renationalisation and at the splitting of the European Union’s policies into internal and European policy are, of course, not your problem alone, but you are constantly provocative, and you also play the blackmail card.
It takes more to make a successful presidency of the Council than two performances or rhetorical pyrotechnics by Tony Blair.
The more arrogant your attitude to the citizens of Europe and to their Parliament becomes, the greater our confidence and determination, and all the greater the rage of the public.
Far from us being the agents of the governments’ national and individualistic interests, our cause is that of Europe as a community, of an effective and decisive European Union united in solidarity.
It is Parliaments such as our own that must assume leadership and responsibility in view of the vacuum that you are leaving behind you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that anyone wanting to put a title to the opinions being expressed by certain Member States in the Council would choose the title: 'How to have more Europe with less money'.
I believe that there are numerous contradictions in the discussions being held in the Council and in the proposals by the British Presidency.
In this debate there is a huge contradiction between words and ambitions, on the one hand, and the fact that we only give the Community budget 2.5% of public spending in the 25 Member States, on the other.
Similarly, numerous Member States are putting the emphasis in this debate on how much money they personally give the Community budget.
However, these same Member States are forgetting what they receive, the net contributions, via the single market and via the Structural Funds, given that a significant portion of the budget of the Structural Funds finds its way back to these Member States in various ways, which everyone knows and I need not analyse.
If the common agricultural policy is ever revised, I propose to the British Presidency that we start with the large-scale farmers, who receive the lion's share of subsidies, rather than the poor farmers in the south, if we want the common agricultural policy to have a social content.
Parliament will not keep quiet; it is not prepared to accept every Council agreement, every decision taken next week; we are here to fight to the end for the cohesion policy and we shall exercise all our rights. &#160;&#160; Six months ago I called attention to the fact that the changes needed in the European Union should start with the elimination of the long-standing unfair discrimination still evident against new Member States.
Now, at the end of the year, not only did we fail to make any progress on the road taking Europe out of the crisis, but we actually started off in the wrong direction, in the opposite direction.
Mr Schulz, the iceberg is not ahead of us, but behind us.
The problem is that we are moving in reverse.
It does not reduce the crisis of Europe, but increases it; it does not unite European Union Member States, but divides them.
It does not help new Member States, but humiliates them.
It does not make Europe more competitive, but pulls it back.
This budget proposal is a budget that slows us down and divides us.
A few years ago the new Member States of the European Union accepted the transitional disadvantages and differentiations in Copenhagen in the hope that they would be able to participate in the seven-year financial plan with full rights, without differentiation.
However, what we can now see is that the old Member States intend to solve their long-standing unsolved problems to the detriment of the new Member States.
In spite of our differing interests, we already agreed on the budget in spring, and this House has more than 700 Members, while there are only 25 governments. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have little time in which to speak, and I shall therefore focus on the agreement reached on EU aid policy on the theme, ‘European consensus’.
I feel entirely positive about this agreement and the process that has led up to it, as I did not about the debate on the budget and the lack of leadership in that sphere.
I would thank Mr&#160;Barroso and Mr&#160;Alexander for their positive comments in this Chamber today, and I should like to convey my thanks both to Commissioner Michel and to Secretary of State Hilary&#160;Benn for what I consider to be their very constructive cooperation.
We have also obtained an agreement to define the Commission’s specific role in development cooperation, something I believe will become very important.
We also give increased attention to issues such as democracy and human rights, the importance of utilising natural resources in a sustainable way and the role of women in development work etc.
As to the issue that you raised, Mr President, I can assure you that there was no discourtesy intended, nor is any intended now, in relation to the timing of the revised proposals being tabled by the European Presidency later today – not least given the timing of this important debate.
Our Prime Minister will be coming to Strasbourg tomorrow to hold further discussions with the Conference of Presidents.
Thirdly, notwithstanding the criticism that has been directed toward the British Presidency in the course of this debate, I would respectfully reply that, as Mr Titley generously acknowledged, criticism of the Presidency’s engagement with this Parliament is surely not something that deserves to be articulated by honourable Members.
As to the , I accept that trying to secure agreement amongst 25 Member States of this Union does involve a ‘titanic’ challenge, but I believe that it can end in agreement rather than tragedy.
To Mr Watson, who said that no deal is better than a bad deal, I certainly find myself on common ground on that particular issue.
Although I admire his erudition, his critique of how budgeting should work did rather call to my mind that it perhaps accounts for why the Liberals have now been out of power in the United Kingdom since 1929.
There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that had the British Presidency sought to succumb to national egotism, it would have been far easier domestically for the United Kingdom and for the British Government to assume an approach which continued to advocate immediate and fundamental change, for example to the common agricultural policy and the wider European Union budget.
It has been a far more challenging route to walk to suggest that, notwithstanding our continuing desire to see more fundamental change in the Union, that there should be a clear recognition of the urgent need to find the resources to fund the costs of enlargement, and that explains the basis of the proposals that we tabled initially last week and the revised proposals that we will table later today.
Mrs de Brún spoke of the need for further work to secure the peace process in Northern Ireland, and on that specific point I listened very carefully to her in relation to the proposals that, in turn, we shall make.
I can assure this House, not least on the basis of the strength of opinions articulated within this Chamber on the matter, that we are making continuing efforts to increase the transparency of the Council.
Speaking for just a second as a United Kingdom Minister rather than solely on behalf of the Presidency, let me underline that we are willing to pay our fair share of the budget but not than our fair share.
Back in June, we were asked to make a net contribution of an extra EUR 20 billion or more above and beyond the EUR 50 billion we were already going to pay, or, to put it another way, to make a net contribution about a third more than France as a share of gross national income.
A fairer global trade system can also act as a spur to the reforms that Europe needs if it is to enhance its competitiveness and deliver on its promises of social justice.
A number of honourable Members have referred to the speech that our Prime Minister made at that time.
People in France and in the Netherlands did not have deep-seated objections to a particular subparagraph or clause of the draft Constitution.
I can assure you that I will, in turn, pass back the comments that I have received in the course of this morning’s debate to our Prime Minister and to other members of our government ahead of his visit here to Strasbourg tomorrow.
I shall first deal with the very important matter of development, and in particular with the agreement that has come to light in the Council on the EU’s policy on development and development aid.
I said in my first speech, in the clearest terms, that I was very proud of the Commission’s contribution towards achieving the consensus on development aid policy that clearly exists between the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
Indeed, I went further, and said that the Commission will fulfil its role of checking whether the Member States are honouring their commitments on development aid, and of keeping the public informed on this matter.
Yes, Mr&#160;Schulz, you are right, not just listened to in silence, but listened to carefully, just as carefully as I have listened to all of you, ladies and gentlemen.
I should like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, throughout this morning’s debate, I have sensed grave concern in this House, and I am sure that Mr&#160;Alexander will inform his government and the Presidency of this concern, felt by virtually all the political forces in Parliament.
We must have only one aim tomorrow: to reach an agreement.
Not just any agreement, of course, but an agreement that opens up real perspectives - and not just financial perspectives, but political perspectives with a view to European integration.
In short, an agreement that will testify to our sense of responsibility where our citizens and Europe are concerned and that will give men and women reasons to believe in this Europe, for which the majority of people continue to hope and pray.
First of all, I would like to congratulate you, because of what you have achieved during this debate: getting Mr Schulz to speak such good English was a real achievement by the British Presidency.
Does the opinion of this House and the Members of Parliament who were directly elected by our citizens mean nothing, or mean so little, to the Presidency of the Council?
If we want an open Europe in terms of global trade, we need investment.
President-in-Office, you mentioned the world trade talks.
There are those who are more in favour, who take a more affirmative position on trade, and those who are more ‘prudent’ or resistant to it.
Some of the less-developed regions of Europe and the countries that have some structural problems will not support open, ambitious world trade talks if there is not good investment in these countries’ social and economic development.
I want the British Presidency, the Member States and the Council to think strategically, not only from the point of view of an accountant but also from a political point of view, and consider whether no deal or a bad deal on the budget will not put some fundamental strategic objectives – such as the world trade talks, an open Europe and an enlarged Europe – at risk.
Therefore, the issue we shall be discussing tomorrow is very important.
It is about the budget, but it is more than that.
That is why I believe it is important to have a real discussion about the future of our budget, without taboos, looking at everything, the expenditure and the resources.
It is my duty and the duty of the Commission to represent the general interest of Europe, particularly those Member States who have just joined our Union.
If the European institutions do not send signals of solidarity to the new Members, they might be tempted to think that the European Union that they have joined is not the European Union of solidarity that we daily endeavour to build.
I would just like to mention again what I believe are the minimum conditions for a deal that will also be accepted by the Commission and Parliament, because Parliament will also have a say on this.
The second point is a fairer deal for the new Member States in terms of solidarity, giving them an opportunity to show whether or not they are able to spend the money, not starting from the position that they are not able to invest in their own development.
A fourth condition is a real review clause that will enable the Commission, Parliament and the Council to look at the budget in good time.
However, we should not be paralysed by it; we should approve the budget for the next seven years but at the same time give ourselves time to look at it in terms of expenditure and resources.
We should have a real debate about what we want from the European institutions, what we want in terms of competitiveness, what we want in terms of solidarity.
This should be a real review clause, not just a cosmetic review clause, so we have a true debate in Europe about the instruments to fulfil our objectives.
Finally, I believe it is important for the Council to take on board at least some, if not all, of Parliament’s very good suggestions concerning flexibility, for instance the globalisation adjustment fund – a typical flexibility instrument – and other good suggestions by Parliament for the new interinstitutional agreement.
You are aware that, if there are no changes to the programme, Mr Blair, President-in-Office of the Council, will come to Strasbourg tomorrow to meet with the Conference of Presidents and to explain his proposal to the Council which the Minister representing the British Presidency has not been able, or has not wished, to explain.
The political groups and you as well, Mr Barroso, have spoken very clearly.
The unacceptable must not be accepted, because otherwise something that is declared unacceptable today and accepted tomorrow may turn the applause into boos.
That concludes this debate, and I would like to thank everybody who has taken part in it. &#160;&#160; The Presidency has a thankless task in trying to reach an agreement in Council on the financial perspectives.
I wish the Presidency well in finding an agreement which will serve as Council’s negotiating position for the definitive negotiation with Parliament. &#160;&#160; – The run-up to this Council shows just how serious our problems are in the EU, and is indicative of the crisis arising from the increasingly neoliberal policies, which pander to the interests of the large economic and financial groups in the most powerful countries.
The wealthiest countries are showing less and less solidarity; the principles of economic and social cohesion in the Treaty are being totally trampled underfoot; the most recent rounds of enlargement have taken place without any fresh financial resources; and the situation is set to get worse, with the British Presidency proposing more cuts for the new Member States and for cohesion countries such as Portugal.
Furthermore, the problem will only deepen with the cuts imposed on the Community budget.
The upshot of this will be financial resources being channelled into meeting the needs of the economically most developed countries and the economic and financial groups in those countries, at the expense of social needs, the environment, cohesion and development aid. &#160;&#160; – The financial framework for 2007-2013 is the centrepiece of the European Council.
After the British Presidency had given precedence to the interests of the economically most developed EU countries, by putting forward a proposal to lower the bar still further and to overlook the contradictions inherent therein, pressure increased to reach agreement as quickly as possible.
I have no doubt that they will be comprehensively rejected by other member states and with 11 of those states smaller than Scotland I am more convinced than ever that there is no substitute for independence in Europe. &#160;&#160; I would now like to welcome a delegation from the Central American Parliament who are in the official gallery.
I would also like to congratulate its President, Mr Julio Palacios, on his election as President of that institution, which emerged from the Esquipulas agreements that put an end to years of civil wars in several Central American countries.
The Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has taken these objections seriously and, by means of its amendments, balanced freedom and security against one another.
This happened in the case of Nelson Mandela and more recently Leyla Zana.
In their different ways, all three symbolise the fight to consolidate human rights in the world.
The fight against inhuman laws.
The fight against those who deny the right to information and against the terrorists who want to banish the right to information.
The European Parliament has supported this year’s winners by means of its resolutions and its initiatives.
Their presence here is just the end of a process that we have shared by means of our resolutions.
Please allow me to point out, here in this esteemed Chamber, that many Europeans believe that the right to have one’s human rights respected is something natural, something inevitable, which is practically free, and that it has always been the case.
And for this reason, we Europeans have a special duty to defend and promote human rights in the world.
These women demonstrate peacefully every week in Havana to express their solidarity with relatives and friends in prison since March 2003.
The only crime of many of these prisoners is to express publicly their opposition to the government as ordinary citizens, as independent journalists or as peaceful dissidents.
We called for the release of these prisoners in April 2004 and unfortunately this is still far from being achieved, despite certain individual cases that have arisen.
In this enormous country of Nigeria, you defend people who live with the threat of cruel and inhuman punishments.
You made sure that the law prevailed, demanding respect for the Constitution and for the international Treaties signed by Nigeria.
The personal commitment that you express with great conviction: that of the right to education for the poor, in particular women, because poverty harms women especially.
There can be no democracy without pluralist information.
I would like to pay tribute to all of them, and to all of their imprisoned or disappeared colleagues.
This Parliament has acted and will always act in support of them.
Through their brutal actions, the terrorists will not deny us freedom of information either, the essential basis of our democratic life.
Both said that freedom of expression is the only right that separates freedom from tyranny.
Congratulations to our prize winners on the courage they have shown.
Mr José Borrell, President of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed participants, Mr Robert Ménard, Doctor Ibrahim, European friends and Cuban brothers and sisters resident in all parts of the world, the honour of being awarded the 2005 Sakharov Prize, shared with Doctor Ibrahim and the hard-working and selfless Reporters Without Borders, has touched the hearts of the Women in White and of the seventy-five prisoners of conscience imprisoned in Cuba during the black spring of 2003 very deeply.
For us, this prize means an even greater commitment to our cause and to you; an inspiration to carry on defending the innocence of our loved ones with greater courage and to demand their immediate and unconditional release.
This does not prevent the Women in White from being here in Strasbourg today, nor the seventy-five prisoners sentenced since March 2003 and hundreds of Cuban prisoners of conscience and politicians.
On the contrary, the entire world will hear your voices today and the response of all of us.
We will not collect that prize today, but, like Andrei Sakharov, the eminent scientist and selfless fighter for freedom of thought, the exemplary Aung San Suu Kyi, the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo and all the other winners from previous years, we shall continue our tireless efforts to ensure that social justice, democracy and reconciliation prevail.
Every voice, united in diversity, for the right to freedom of thought.
We started with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which afforded us the opportunity of being heard by all the political groups.
We were able to explain our work and answer questions about what the European Union and European Parliament can do for us.
We want to assure you that, following this ceremony, we will be willing to discuss any specific issues you wish to bring up with us, at any time, regarding the projects or programmes in our regions or constituencies with the appropriate committees and think-tanks.
In some of the committees and groups, I mentioned the strategies we used in the defence of the woman sentenced to death under the Islamic religious law of Sharia in Nigeria, and I will continue on that subject now.
I shall then try to read my three-minute speech, as I have been advised.
Let me turn now to our strategy.
Our strategy was to understand the dynamics of the Islamic law of Sharia.
Hausa is the second largest language in Africa, after Swahili.
They listened to what I was saying, but they did more than that.
I am humbled to receive this prestigious 2005 Sakharov Prize alongside this distinguished group of people.
It acknowledges not just the women and children of northern Nigeria, for whom I have worked, but everyone who remains unrepresented in society.
In spite of scientific progress, a woman in 2005 can be stoned to death for having a child out of wedlock.
This law has resulted in the loss of hundreds of lives.
We have a long-term plan, a medium-term plan and a short-term plan.
Our methodology will be flexible.
It will be responsive to a cultural system of values.
We will give people the tools to ask questions and encourage greater measures of political freedom and activism.
To encourage this idea and vision we will build, without letting up, on the struggle and labours of our women heroes, such as the one this building is named after: Louise Weiss.
My ultimate hope is that, through the effective application of the rule of law, those who argue for truth and justice and those who work effectively to achieve a better community will change people’s hearts and the attitude that governs society and bring about the type of world envisaged by all of us.
I have chosen a path, a path of equal protection under the law, a path to pursue justice, encourage and engage, a path to do good.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin, of course, by thanking you for having awarded us, the entire team – some of whom are present - this Sakharov Prize, and by letting you know just how important this is to us.
Allow me just to mention one name, that of Mr Jean-Marie Cavada, who is a friend of mine; I know how much he campaigned for Reporters without Borders to be awarded this prize.
Thank you, Jean-Marie.
I should like to begin by congratulating you, the men and women of Parliament, on having recognised the qualities of - and, above all, on having awarded a prize such as this to - journalists who are, all the same, a constant thorn in your side and towards whom you often do not hold back your criticism – for good reason.
Allow me to mention another name in this House, one that I believe is in the news: that of the most recent journalist to have been killed.
You will know to whom I am referring: Gebran Tueni.
He was the fourteenth victim of targeted attacks that have been taking place in the country for some months.
I shall now present at random some perhaps rather more critical points, and the prize awarded to the Ladies in White enables me to address them.
How can one fail to understand that, on the one hand, the detention of 24 journalists in Cuba and, on the other hand, the situation I described to you a moment ago, whereby the US army is holding journalists in Iraq without ever having justified its actions, might be deemed equally scandalous?
Another person I should like to mention, Mr&#160;President, is Mrs&#160;Florence Aubenas, because you have been exemplary in the way you have rallied people.
You, in Parliament, have been extraordinary – and I am not one to mince my words, as you will see – you have been extraordinary where Florence&#160;Aubenas is concerned.
There are others like Florence Aubenas, but they do not belong to great Western media organisations and they do not come from the West.
In their cases, it is a job and a half mobilising you, the press and even, at times, ourselves, as though double standards were being applied, as though some lives were worth more than others and as though there were some freedoms that affect us and others that do not.
I should like, if I may, to address another point in relation to our own intolerance.
It is so easy to defend the ideas of people who think like us.
At the same time, I say to myself that my place is here.
The difference between those who merely talk about democracy and those who live it – and you live it in this House – is being able to say what I have just said and to defend people on the grounds that they do not benefit from a certain number of legal rules, even though those people will pose a threat to us in the future.
This paradox is our weakness at the same time as our strength.
I should like to make two or three further small points.
We have to fight in these two different cases.
To equate the problem of media concentration in our own countries with that of the arrest of journalists in China or Burma is terrible for the people who are imprisoned in China.
Yes, there are things that do not work in our countries.
Yes, there are things that do not work in the field of information.
Yes, like you, I am scandalised from time to time by the attitudes of my colleagues and by what I do as a journalist.
I do not believe that you are in a position to do so.
We, for our part, are irresponsible to a certain extent because the only thing we defend is freedom of expression.
As for you, you are required to take into account other things, such as the economic interests of your countries and of Europe and diplomatic and military interests.
That is why I am not calling on you to say that the policy of Europe and of this Parliament is guided only by human rights.
At the same time, we cannot be content with the world as it is, Mr&#160;President.
The advocates of the directive maintain that the relevant monitoring is necessary for combating the most serious crimes, but they are wrong.
The Greens voted against this directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against the data retention directive, primarily because it is intrusive and technically unworkable.
The only threat to security is the threat to people’s right to privacy.
For these reasons I have voted ‘No’. &#160;&#160; I could not vote in favour of this report because I believe that the European Union simply cannot condone the collection of personal data on every citizen.
Every totalitarian regime in history has begun by amassing personal data on all of its citizens.
I myself grew up under a forty-year-long totalitarian regime where the Communists in power collected my personal data and information about my phone calls.
Existing data transfer technology is still not secure enough and, therefore, potentially beneficial uses, such as the fight against terrorism, crime and money laundering, can easily be subverted.
I could never explain to the public why I might vote for such a proposal. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware of the importance of the directive on data retention that has just been adopted.
As one of the signatories to Amendment&#160;41, however, I cannot consent to individual Member States offering different reimbursement to operators for any costs they have incurred as a result of retaining data, since this would violate the rules of the free market. &#160;&#160; I voted today in favour of the amendment by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to reject the proposed directive on data retention.
It will not help combat terrorism, and it has also been driven through with frightening speed and in a way that does not bode well for the future.
It achieves the right balance between allowing police and judicial authorities access to the data on electronic communications, and the protection of privacy.
The Member States should make it easier to exchange information among themselves in order more efficiently to combat terrorism and organised crime.
If a Member State wishes to introduce the compulsory retention of data, it should only do so following a proper national debate with a decision taken in its national parliament.
It should be noted that a similar proposal was previously rejected by Parliament and did not receive the unanimous decision in the Council that it would have needed in order to be adopted.
The proposal for a directive before us, presented by the Commission on the initiative of the United Kingdom, took just three months to be adopted by the majority of MEPs and by a qualified majority in the Council.
The British Presidency has stated that it wants to see this directive enter into force at the earliest opportunity.
The directive seeks to broaden its current scope of gathering and storing data (telephone communication, email, Internet, and so forth) for up to two years, subject to extension, to include other aspects such as ‘preventing’ infringement.
The European Parliament has been used to by-pass national parliaments which have rejected similar proposals.
Our Parliament has forfeited certain rights by the process we have adopted on this Directive.
Mass surveillance threatens that confidence.
Moreover, it has proved impossible to come to any agreement about, or determine what should be done about, the costs incurred in consequence of retention, so that it is far from certain what effects will result in future for industry and the consumer.
I am very critical of the way in which the process relating to the proposal for a decision on the retention of electronic communication services data has been handled.
It must be possible to use electronic communication data, but only in connection with very serious and well-defined crimes and following court decisions.
A harmonisation of EU provisions is desirable, but it should be much more restrictive than is indicated by the current decision.
The proposal for amending the directive, adopted in Parliament’s Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, was a step in the right direction.
In the vote, this proposal was, however, rejected in favour of proposals that are too far-reaching.
I should have liked to have seen a decision involving shorter retention periods and better protection of privacy.
Bearing in mind the measures and plans aimed at better regulation at European level, it is to be hoped that the procedure used for debating data retention will not become the rule', to quote directly from the report to Parliament. -There is&#160;a framework decision on this issue still with the Council of Ministers. -There is doubt that the correct legal basis was used for this proposal. &#160;&#160; .
It is tragic that two large MEP groups have passed this in a single reading rather than have a thorough scrutiny.
The question of costs is unclear.
Hotmail and Yahoo emails are excluded.
In the 2004 Madrid bombings, no emails were sent by terrorists ; instead one wrote a draft on Yahoo, and his accomplices logged on and read it.
The text gives too much latitude to the 25 governments to do what they wish.
Before we enter into any discussion on the report, I wish to say that we should welcome the fact that this issue has given rise to such a wide-ranging discussion.
In the report that we adopted, I did not detect any drift towards securitarianism, or any abandonment of the fundamental principles of ensuring and protecting the citizens’ rights, freedoms and guarantees.
The report shows that we recognise the need to increase the resources available for combating crime, especially given the serious nature of certain types of crime, with terrorism of course at the top of that list, and given the use of new technology in these criminal activities.
The increased powers provided for in this report will only work if their use is monitored more closely, and Parliament must not take its eye off the ball with regard to this directive.
Worse than that, I fear it will infringe liberty, and add unnecessary costs to business and consumers without actually making any of our citizens safer.
After carefully examining my conscience, I have voted in favour of the report, - in the hope that the authorities will use the data only in accordance with our stipulations, - in the knowledge that the concept of a ‘court order’ is not to be found in all Member States, - in the knowledge that this House has largely removed the teeth from what was put before it by the Council and the Commission, and - out of the conviction that civil rights will be adequately protected by Parliament.
After two years, I shall be demanding to see statistics on the authorities’ access to data. &#160;&#160; . – I voted against the proposal for a directive on the retention of data because, despite the improvements to the initial proposal by the British Presidency following the efforts made by Members of Parliament, I still believe that these measures alone will prove to be ineffective in practice and will, furthermore, crack individual freedoms wide open, with painful consequences.
I am very critical of the way in which the process relating to the proposal for a decision on the retention of electronic communication services data has been handled.
That does not, however, mean that we should give the green light to the extensive and systematic retention of both telephone conversations and e-mails.
A harmonisation of EU provisions is desirable, but it should be much more restrictive than is indicated by the current decision.
The proposal for amending the directive, adopted in Parliament’s Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, was a step in the right direction.
In the vote, this proposal was, however, rejected in favour of a proposal identical to that negotiated by the governments.
It allows this Parliament to discuss one of the fundamental issues facing European governments and institutions in the 21st century: the balance to be struck between security and liberty in a world characterised in part by mass-casualty terrorism.
I hope the debate will help illuminate the key issues involved, including how to tackle the unprecedented threat we all face from international terrorism, how to ensure respect for the international rule of law at the same time, and how every day Member States have to take hard decisions to maintain the balance between security and liberty and take responsibility for those decisions.
As honourable Members of this Parliament will know, allegations have been made in the European and international media and elsewhere concerning US detention facilities in Europe and the use of aircraft to transfer terrorist suspects between countries in order to interrogate them using torture and ill-treatment.
On 5 December the United States Secretary of State made a detailed public statement on the matter in advance of her visit to Europe.
The Presidency has forwarded that reply to European Union colleagues and I have today provided a copy of the reply to President Borrell Fontelles.
The United Kingdom has expressed its satisfaction with the US statement.
I understand some other European Union colleagues have also made public comments upon the statement by Secretary of State Rice.
The Council welcomes the detailed statement by the US Secretary of State, for all European countries share the determination of the United States to protect innocent citizens from the threat of terrorism, while operating within international law.
We have seen them in New York, Washington, Istanbul, Madrid, and recently in London and in numerous other cities around the world.
The European security strategy adopted in 2003 emphasised that transnational terrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction pose a threat we cannot ignore.
However, at the same time, in seeking responses to these new challenges, it is essential that the rule of law and the human rights of individuals are respected.
Secretary of State Rice’s statement of 5&#160;December makes clear that the policy of the United States Government is to comply with the UN Convention against Torture, that the United States Government complies with its Constitution, its laws and its Treaty obligations.
She goes on to say that acts of physical or mental torture are expressly prohibited, that the United States Government does not authorise or condone torture of detainees and that torture and conspiracy to commit torture are crimes under US law wherever they may occur in the world.
The Council welcomes this statement.
As Secretary of State Rice herself said on 5&#160;September, that debate in and among democracies is natural and healthy.
That must be right and this Parliament can and has made a contribution to that debate.
I am sure that Member States will want to cooperate with the Council of Europe.
Secondly, I should like to reassert the crucial, strategic importance of the joint action and close cooperation between the European Union and the United States in the fight against terrorism.
All European democratic nations, the United States and our other international partners must together defend their common values against this century’s greatest threat: international terrorism.
As Minister Alexander has just said, I welcome the formal statement by the US Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, that the United States does not tolerate torture, whether on US territory or anywhere else in the world, but considers it a crime.
That does not rule out our common desire for the truth but, as I said to the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs the evening before last, I clearly cannot cast doubt on the credibility of the legitimate and democratic governments of European Union countries and candidate countries without good evidence to the contrary.
In addition, I cannot consider that there are any individual European countries ‘on trial’, and I say that in inverted commas, particularly to our friends in Poland and Romania.
Some European countries, as you know, have started investigations at a national level.
Yesterday I met the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
In conclusion, then, if there is any suspicion or evidence that abuse and torture have been committed in Europe, we shall certainly be in a weaker position in the face of terrorists and antidemocratic terrorist propaganda.
The first is that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats regards itself as a partner and friend of the United States of America.
Far from this debate, or any other on this subject, being a fit and proper occasion for anti-American sentiments, what we have to do is consider the facts in the light of our principles.
Secondly, the fight against terrorism is one of the greatest challenges of present times.
The principles that underpin our democratic system of values must never be abandoned, for it is they that distinguish us from terrorists.
The fight against terrorism must be fought by legal means and in accordance with the principles of human dignity and human rights.
Let me quote what was said in a major German newspaper yesterday by the rapporteur for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Swiss parliamentarian Dick Marty; he said that the information available to him thus far reinforces the impression that members of the public are unlawfully transported to European countries and held there for periods of time.
We have always taken a critical view of Guantanamo, and did so even before the US Supreme Court handed down its ruling.
I can speak for this House when I say that we can take pride in our defence of human rights, in Guantanamo as elsewhere, and in the fact that the Supreme Court can be said to have come to the same conclusion.
In a situation like the present one, in which a German woman has been abducted in Iraq, we need the secret services’ back-up, but let me say, most definitely and most firmly, that secret services, too, must be founded upon the law.
Both prisons operating outside the law and the use of torture for the purposes of interrogation would constitute breaches of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, of the Council of Europe’s Human Rights Convention and of the Convention against Torture ratified by all Member States of the European Union and by all candidates for accession to it.
Mr Poettering is right to say that we need secret services, but, more than ever, they need to use modern methods of investigation.
My view is that the decision to wage war in Iraq was taken without reference to international law.
The decision to wage this war was a disaster, and the war itself is one.
It follows, of course, that one cannot have a great deal of confidence in the secret services of a country whose government’s actions are not quite open and legal, or which at any rate gives that impression.
If these answers show that everything was legal and above board, then fine, but if – and we hope that this will not prove to be the case – it appears from them that we have no option but to conclude that institutions of the European Union or of its Member States played a part, whether actively or passively, in the unlawful arrest of persons or the operation of prisons outside the law, and in torture, then sanctions must be the inevitable consequence.
I can tell Mr Poettering that it is not a matter of ‘if need be’, but this very day, in the Conference of Presidents, we will be asking for a temporary committee to examine this matter.
They are all rattling off the denials, but this has not satisfied those who have expressed concern or deterred calls for parliamentary or judicial inquiries in a string of European countries.
Secretary of State Rice pointedly said last week that the US has respected the sovereignty of other countries.
Only by cleaning house and starting afresh on the basis of real respect for the rule of law can we convince our citizens that we are not sacrificing our principles.
The problem is that we are living in an Alice in Wonderland world.
The President-in-Office said that Secretary of State Rice’s statements last week should be taken at face value.
This Parliament must avoid duplicating Dick Marty’s investigation.
I also welcome Mr Frattini’s statement that finding out the truth will strengthen our fight against terrorism by upholding our values.
The United States claims that it does not tolerate torture, but, as somebody has just asked, can bringing people almost to the point of drowning really not be termed torture?
If that is the case, if people are locked up, or transported illegally, on European soil without any judicial trial, then the EU’s very core values are at stake and the question arises of what we intend to do about it.
It is our duty to mount an inquiry into those cases.
Although Commissioner Frattini explained to us the detail of the legal procedures, we will find this out in due course.
If Europe’s core values are on the line, we must respond.
We can at any rate set up a temporary committee, along the lines of the one that worked so well in the case of Echelon.
Some Members are already collecting signatures for this, but we have seen in the Echelon committee that even a temporary committee of this kind triggers a dynamic quest for the truth, with a public debate that gives people the boldness to speak out, so that public opinion gets noticed and politicians are forced to go further than simply affirm that they have every confidence, just to please some US Minister. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform Minister Alexander that today we are not talking about the fight against terrorism, but about hundreds of flights throughout Europe, about kidnappings and torture carried out by the CIA against European citizens or refugees, and about torture practised in prisons on European soil.
It is the case of Abu Omar, who was kidnapped by CIA agents right in the centre of Milan, transferred to an American base in Italy and tortured for 12 hours; he was then transferred to Egypt, where he was detained and tortured for more than a year.
He disobeyed the order and 22 days later he disappeared and has not been heard of since.
In my view, all these points need to be looked into; there are 22 arrest warrants out for CIA agents, and we are still waiting for the Italian Government to issue the extradition requests.
Indeed, the agreement signed between the United States and the European Union in Athens in January 2003 states that the use of transit sites for the transfer of foreign criminals needs to be stepped up.
A committee of inquiry needs to be set up to shed light on all these points.
Senator McCain was right to table an amendment in order to define the rules of interrogation more precisely.
The fight against terror is tough, but the law, as we in the European Union and the United States know it, must be upheld.
I do not want to go too far back in time, but I should like somebody to stand up and tell me whether in those days the United States trampled on the sovereignty of European Member States when it sacrificed thousands and thousands of its men to save Europe.
Nobody, of course, wants to deny Parliament’s crucial role in guaranteeing and monitoring respect for human rights and protection of the freedoms of individuals and peoples.
To conclude, I sense that a veiled but widespread feeling of ideological anti-Americanism reigns in this Parliament, and especially in certain of its constituent committees.
Certain groups seem to be permeated by a visceral, deep-seated anti-American, anti-Western feeling, which clearly reveals old Soviet friendships that have never dimmed. &#160;&#160; I see we have some Americans in the Chamber! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Frattini’s reaction to the reports that the CIA is secretly transporting and interrogating terror suspects in Europe was prompt, dynamic and forceful.
It is, of course, true that the fight against terrorism must be waged within the bounds set by the law, but the European Union has a credibility problem.
We are always prepared to observe a minute’s silence for the victims of terrorist attacks such as those in Madrid and London, and even those of 11 September in New York and Washington, but, when it comes to taking measures and taking action which must help prevent such terrorist attacks in future, we fail to deliver, being primarily interested in safeguarding the rights of the terror suspects.
They are supremely important values, which allow all the citizens of the EU’s democratic Member States to live and work in safety and harmony.
We must also ensure that the right to dignity of all human beings is respected, even in the case of terrorists.
On 11&#160;September&#160;2001, terrorists declared war on our civilisation and its underpinning Judaeo-Christian values.
In view of the above, torture should not have been used and must not be used in any EU Member State.
We will therefore vote in favour of the appointment of a temporary committee to investigate issues surrounding the alleged transport, detention and even torture of prisoners in EU Member States.
At the same time, however, it is crucial that the work of this committee should not heighten anti-American sentiments in Europe, and that its conclusions and findings should not be taken as read.
I hope that the work carried out by the committee will allow us to strike a much-needed balance between two values that are of enormous significance for every European citizen.
I refer to the protection of the right to life and of life itself, by means of effective measures that ensure our safety, and the protection of fundamental human rights.
These latter include both the right to legal representation for those suspected of crimes such as terrorism and the right to a fair trial. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today, in this House, we have adopted a piece of legislation that is of vital importance to the war on terrorism.
Thanks to good cooperation with the British presidency of the Council and with our colleagues on the Committee, particularly with our coordinator Mrs Roure, the overwhelming majority of Social Democrats have endorsed this act as an important weapon in the fight against terrorism, while being no less determined in our opposition to torture of any kind.
All of you, after all, have heard of Guantanamo, and of Senator McCain, who is no kind of lunatic, but is behind a specific and well-founded campaign against torture, particularly that engaged in by the United States of America.
That is why it is important that we in this House should get to the bottom of what has been going on and, without prejudice or prior judgment, but also without averting or shutting our eyes to the facts, should examine whether such things – ranging from abduction to torture – have been engaged in on European soil.
The last thing I have to say has to do with our relationship with the USA, and this is where I agree with Mrs Kudrycka, who spoke before me.
This is our common cause – Europe and the USA against not only terrorism, but also torture! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is up to the political groups to decide to get to the bottom of these allegations at a time when everyone is feeling very uneasy.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs will take the information provided by the political groups into consideration as far as possible.
In these circumstances, we need to bear in mind Article&#160;6 of the Treaty on European Union, Articles&#160;2, 3, 6 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, particularly with regard to legal guarantees, and also the provisions of the agreements between the United States and the European Union on legal cooperation in criminal matters and on extradition, and the bilateral agreements in that respect.
Nevertheless, I would ask you not to wait. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was in response to the terrible images from Abu Ghraib, if not before, that a debate was unleashed in the USA too as to what was or was not permissible in legitimate war on terrorism.
I would like, on behalf of my group, to reiterate what has been said by the others.
We serve as a role model for other countries around the world in which there is no democracy and in which human rights are under threat.
This reinforces my conviction that our Parliament must, without delay, appoint a committee to investigate all such accusations.
The very gravest of charges, relating to the abduction and torture of human beings, have been laid against the United States and Member States of the European Union; that much is in the public domain.
As the Commissioner has called for evidence, I will ask him whether the case of Khaled El Masri, a German citizen, does not itself speak volumes.
As representatives of the citizens of the European Union, we are under an obligation to shed light where there is darkness.
The fact is that what is at stake here is nothing more or less than the defence of the most fundamental values upon which the European Union rests.
The prohibition of torture is among those minimum human rights standards that every state must observe most stringently; it is part of binding international law, and it is one of the core values of the European Union.
Condoleezza Rice maintains that European governments should also accept responsibility and that the United States acted with the more or less explicit consent of the governments in question.
Terrorism is a huge threat to all of us and to all of our citizens and it is something that has to be fought in the years ahead.
I am pro-American, but that does not mean that I am not going to question the US Government for the presumed use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation, illegal detention and/or torture of prisoners.
We should all recall that this story emanated in the United States, where there is deep unease about what may be happening.
The European Union is at the forefront in protecting and upholding the human rights of all its citizens.
We have a right to ask questions and demand answers from the US authorities.
I quote one of the most famous Americans, Thomas Jefferson, when he said, ‘I have never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy, as a cause for withdrawing from a friendship’.
We have a right to answers and the US Government should cooperate with all of us to ensure that clarification on the issues raised is secured and that human rights and human dignity are not swept under the carpet in this fight.
We cannot sweep under the carpet things that we believe and hold true to us, because in this fight, it is absolutely essential that Parliament stands up to this. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, we say yes to a committee, but no to anti-American hysteria.
That, in a nutshell, is our position on the appointment of a parliamentary body to investigate media reports of CIA prisons in Europe.
We should keep things in proportion, and make a distinction between regimes that base their very existence on brutal violations of human rights and countries in which human rights are only occasionally infringed.
Commissioner&#160;Frattini is a very nice man, if perhaps a little overzealous, and I would very much like to believe him when he tells us that there have not been any prisons of this kind in Europe.
We are in favour of a committee being appointed, but we would not want such a committee to become a platform for anti-American rhetoric.
At the same time, however, universal values such as human rights must not be used as weapons in our political battles.
Torture is still torture whether it takes place in Iraq, Afghanistan, China or Pinochet’s Chile.
If there have been cases of torture in a democratic country, with the tacit acceptance of an elected government, it does not stop being torture; it is an embarrassment to that country and its government.
We must first condemn outright any act that may constitute a violation of human rights, whether that be humiliation, illegal imprisonment or the detention of prisoners without legal protection.
The EU, which created, and is in the process of strengthening, the area of freedom, security and justice, cannot allow such violations to be practised or facilitated on its territory.
There has been mention in this debate of statements made by Condoleezza Rice, which left no room for doubt.
The problem is that we are left with the uncomfortable impression that there are two strands of rhetoric on this issue; it is as though within the Bush Administration there were the Rice strand and the Cheney strand.
The United States is not helped by the continuing Guantanamo situation, by Donald&#160;Rumsfeld’s refusal to authorise a UN humanitarian mission, by the doubts expressed in a recent interview by Head of CIA, Peter Goss, as to whether degrading treatment can be considered torture, or by President Bush’s threat to block the McCain amendment, which would ban the cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees.
I must congratulate the United Kingdom on the law lords’ recent decision that information obtained under torture cannot be used as evidence in court.
In the Europe of values and freedoms, we want to know the facts, and, if something inappropriate has taken place, we want to make sure that it does not happen again.
In democratic Europe we do not convict people on the basis of assumptions, without any evidence.
The EU must therefore make every effort to cooperate with the Council of Europe and with the ongoing investigation.
This is the best way of ensuring that the truth will emerge and that our values will prevail. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Council of Europe’s investigation into the existence of secret American detention centres in Europe has made no progress in five weeks.
According to the Swiss Parliamentary rapporteur Dick Marty, all the information they have gathered tends to reinforce the credibility of the allegations, but he has been unable to get precise answers to his questions.
It is therefore our duty, as the representatives of the European citizens, to demand that an investigation be conducted to find out the precise details, on a case-by-case basis, of circumstances that may give rise to offences and to violations of human rights.
The EU, by way of its Charter of Fundamental Rights, can –&#160;as we all say so often&#160;– be a model.
Therefore, we cannot tolerate any attacks on human rights on EU territory. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to start by saying that it is very important for a temporary committee to be set up, not only to confirm that the European Union is greatly concerned by respect for human rights, but also to find out the whole truth of this matter.
I am pleased to have heard Mr&#160;Alexander and Mr&#160;Frattini give the European Union’s point of view, but I must also say that I was surprised to hear Commissioner&#160;Frattini, and the representatives of the European Commission, faithfully repeat the rumours that two Eastern European countries, Poland and Romania, housed detention centres run by the US secret services.
On the other hand, if they do not exist, I would like the opprobrium piled on my country without any evidence, by rumours, to be lifted at some point in the future.
I want the temporary committee to set to work in order to find out the whole truth in this matter, and I confidently await the day when it will tell that truth for my fellow Members to hear. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this issue is a very important and fundamental one.
It must, of course, be said at the outset that, whatever criticisms we may have to make, the fight against terrorism is of immense importance and that Europe and America must cooperate closely in waging it.
I do not believe, however, that it can be won unless it is fought on the basis of the rule of law and of human rights.
If the West as a whole is not to risk losing its credibility, it is vital that any misdemeanours that have occurred are brought to light without delay and that salami tactics are dispensed with, or else we will be lumbered for months on end with the same sort of credibility problem that we had after Secretary of State Powell’s presentation to the United Nations on the Iraq war, and in other instances too.
I think it is a good thing that – as Commissioner Frattini has made perfectly clear to the two committees that have dealt with this – the Council and the Commission are working with the Council of Europe, and at its specific request, to arrive at clarifications on which the temporary committee will be able to draw when, as I expect it will be, it is brought into being.
Whatever problems we may have, we have to see that these are not lines dividing Europe from America, but that debates are going on in both of them and that we have an ally in the shape of the US Senate, which voted, by 98 votes, to endorse Senator McCain’s motion that torture cannot be an instrument in the fight against terrorism.
That shows what the other great democracy on the other side of the Atlantic is capable of, and this gives us our starting point: what the democrats and the supporters of the rule of law, both in Europe and America, have in common, is not only the capacity to combat terrorism, but also the capacity to do so under credible conditions and while maintaining the rule of law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we do of course take extremely seriously the case that we are discussing today, which has to do with possible abuses that touch the very heart of our democracy and our opinions on human rights.
Something to which reference has already been made in this Chamber, and which, to my mind, plays a significant role, is the fact that we are also concerned about the USA’s attitude to the fight against international terrorism.
In Guantanamo Bay, the United States has, since early 2002, been detaining hundreds of people without any form of trial or independent control.
In the fight against terrorism, American politicians regularly talk about the need to use unconventional methods.
The US has been known to apply its own rules in this respect.
Although the US administration assures us that it does not use torture and that all human rights are respected, it still adopts a hesitant attitude towards Senator McCain’s proposals to improve anti-torture legislation and to declare it fully applicable also outside of the US.
There is currently insufficient information available to assume that nothing is wrong, but the European Parliament also has its own responsibility.
We have to consider the possible involvement of Member States and future EU Member States in the matters in hand, and, perhaps, the European Union’s relations with the United States.
The first impressions gleaned by the Council of Europe’s rapporteur, Dick Marty, strengthen us in the belief that an inquiry of our own is certainly not a luxury.
We should therefore, as a matter of urgency, launch our own inquiry, possibly in cooperation with the Council of Europe, so as to try to find real answers to the questions we are still left with, whereby a temporary committee should be set up as soon as possible, to be followed by a real inquiry committee if that turns out to be necessary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the allegations with which we are dealing are extremely serious ones.
If confirmed, they constitute a plain breach of the principles listed in Article 6 of the Treaty, namely freedom, democracy, protection of human rights and the fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
Since the latest change to the Treaty, Article 7 offers the possibility of acting against a Member State on account of serious violations of these principles.
Needless to say, I too am highly indignant about the CIA’s suspected actions and I am extremely concerned that Member States may have feigned ignorance of them, but a sanction mechanism cannot be activated simply on the basis of indignation.
For the first time in history, Article 7 offers us the opportunity of penalising the misconduct of Member States.
This mechanism can be activated only when sufficient and conclusive elements have been collected.
I trust that this Parliament and its Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs will do this with great meticulousness. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, it is self-evident that terrorism must be fought effectively, and that this fight must therefore be ruthless in certain respects.
Intelligence activities, special units and, in many cases, operations on the fringes of the law play a key role in the fight against terrorism.
At the same time, however, the war on terror is being waged in defence of fundamental liberal and democratic values.
The foundations upon which these values are based include the , or in other words the right to personal inviolability, the ban on holding anyone in prison without a warrant and the ban on the use of force to extract testimonies during interrogations, which equates to an absolute ban on torture.
The same authorities carry out investigations, make arrests, detain people for months on end, stop at nothing when interrogating them and, in some cases, decide to release them.
The level of control exercised over the activities of the intelligence services is one of the chief indicators of the quality of democracy in this new global era.
A dangerous trend can be observed in Europe.
The European Union is not merely a club of this kind, however, but also a political community.
Membership of this community requires the signature of the Treaty on European Union, which guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
I say these words exactly 24&#160;years after martial law was imposed in my home country, Poland.
One of the characteristic features of this period was the fact that those suspected of carrying out trade union activities would be held in detention centres for months on end without having been sentenced.
I am speaking today on behalf of all the citizens of the European Union for whom human rights, political freedoms and civil liberties constitute the very reason for the existence of the Community.
We do not know with certainty: a) if the USA or European countries run or used to run secret detention centres and where; b) if the USA have removed European citizens or other people from European soil in order to transfer them, interrogate them and, possibly, torture them; c) if European governments or authorities have tolerated or participated in such illegal activities.
If we do not take direct action, then the elected representatives of our peoples will end up monitoring revelations in the international press and will react simply as commentators to the facts.
I therefore support the immediate setting up of a parliamentary committee but, apart from the question of detention centres, I believe that you should turn your attention, Mr President, to a broader question which is at the root of all today's evils: the relationship between the fight against terrorism and the protection of citizens' fundamental rights.
Unfortunately, this relationship – including after Mr Alexander's statement – tends thoughtlessly, ungracefully and even illegally to incline very dangerously towards the former and away from the latter. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Minister Alexander, who is very young and very enthusiastic, this Parliament is not at all happy with the statements made by Condoleezza Rice – neither with what she said nor, above all, with what she chose not to say.
I think it would be difficult to expect that kind of proof.
We have many good reasons to call for a committee of inquiry to be set up, not in order to make accusations but to seek the truth.
We appreciate the firmness shown by Commissioner Frattini and endorse his support for the work done by the Council of Europe, but we cannot delegate our responsibility for political vigilance and our duty to ascertain the truth to any other institutional body: it is our job and our responsibility. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, during the Resistance and the Cold War, people died under torture in every one of our countries in order to protect the most precious thing we have: freedom.
The choice is not between the life or death of one or more people, but between the civilisation of democracy and the barbarity of arbitrary power.
It is an insult to our freedom and intelligence, as well as vile blackmail, to claim that torture has helped to thwart even a single terrorist attack in Europe or elsewhere in the world.
As I made clear in my introductory remarks to this debate, the security and liberty of all our people are important issues, perhaps the most important issues that our governments presently face.
I also said that it was right for democracies and their institutions to debate the questions that arise when defending both principles in our modern world, vital that we recognise the unprecedented threat from contemporary terrorism and the longevity of that threat, and crucial that we all respect the rule of law in the process.
I said it was important to recognise the need for governments to take tangible steps to fulfil their principal responsibility – the security of their people, right to respect the word of other sovereign governments including our allies, and incumbent on European governments and institutions to lead by example and conduct informed debate.
The images of the terrorist attacks – on commuter and underground trains in Madrid and London, places of worship, diplomatic premises, banks in Istanbul, hotels in Jordan, residential compounds in Saudi Arabia, and restaurants and bars in Bali – the list goes on – are not computer-generated.
They are the new and frightening reality of our modern world.
On respect for the rule of law, I mentioned the question of torture – a central issue that featured in our debate – in my opening remarks.
Let me reiterate the position of the United Kingdom Government.
We have worked hard with our international partners to eradicate an abhorrent practice.
On government action to counter the threat within the rule of law, I am pleased that under the UK Presidency the European Union has agreed a new counter-terrorism strategy and thereby provided a clearer framework in which Member States can take forward their national and European work, striking a balance between citizens’ rights to life and to liberty.
The recent extradition of a man from Italy to the United Kingdom to face charges connected with the terrorist attacks in London in July would not have taken place so quickly but for European arrest warrants.
The United States does not use the airspace or the airports of any country for the purpose of transporting a detainee to a country where he or she will be tortured.
The United States has not transported anyone, and will not transport anyone, to a country when we believe he will be tortured.
Let me just for a moment digress from my responsibilities as the President-in-Office of the European Union and share with this Chamber the approach of the United Kingdom Government to dealing with these very serious allegations.
We have researched the question of US rendition via the United Kingdom carefully and we have not identified any occasions since 11 September 2001 or earlier during the period in office of the Bush administration when we received a request from the United States for a rendition through United Kingdom territory or airspace, nor are we otherwise aware of such a case.
On providing a lead to our constituents with informed discussion, it is right that the Council of Europe be allowed to conduct a factually based examination of how its members ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, which has featured prominently in this afternoon’s debate.
I said in my introduction, regarding your country, Poland, exactly what you are calling for, which is that I have respectfully noted the solemn denial by the Polish Government authorities and that I do not believe that individual European countries can be regarded as being on trial or under suspicion, but that the truth needs to be sought in respect of the whole territory of Europe: all the countries of Europe and all the candidate countries.
Part of the debate on Europe’s essential values concerns both the citizens’ right to security – and on this point I believe the European Parliament has already said on several occasions that international cooperation with the United States is indispensable if we want to win the fight against terrorism – and the duty of the European Union and of all democratic countries to respect the dignity of every individual.
Today you have voted by a large majority for an important measure, a useful measure in the fight against terrorism, and one that achieves a balance between security and freedom.
It is an exemplary balance between the fight against terrorism and the protection of people’s fundamental rights.
As Europeans we have worked alongside the United States against terrorism and we shall continue to do so.
For instance, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that the extradition treaty specifically aimed at suspected terrorists, which was signed in 2003, has been ratified by the United States but not by the European Union Member States.
In any case, the truth would strengthen us because, in the US Constitution, the Treaty on European Union, the Nice Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights, in all of these documents – and I mentioned the US Constitution in first place – the principle of human rights is fundamental and absolute.
That will be my personal commitment. &#160;&#160; I have received six motions for resolutions(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
Firstly, many of us are disappointed that following the defeat of the Constitution, the opportunity has not been seized to have a wide ranging and open discussion about the nature and direction of the EU in order to take full account of the real wishes of our citizens and make it more relevant to the needs of the 21st century.
The timing of accession should not be vulnerable to unrelated concerns about future enlargement.
Indeed, their budgetary arrangements for the first two years after accession are also secure.
I am sure the Commissioner will confirm this.
Bulgaria’s financial provisions are fixed from 2007 to 2009 in the Accession Treaty, Title III, which was signed on 25&#160;April this year.
Firstly, the Accession Treaty must be ratified by all Member States.
Parliament supports the common objective of Bulgaria’s accession to the EU on 1&#160;January 2007, provided that certain matters of serious concern are dealt with.
It is this area, more than any other, that has been the focus of my report on behalf of Parliament.
I commend my report to Parliament.
The changes are, of course, beneficial in themselves, not just as a prerequisite for EU membership.
Even though I do not entirely agree with his way of thinking&#160;–&#160;which will not surprise him&#160;–&#160;I share his concern regarding the financial perspective, which will neither enable the enlargement of ten new Member States so far to succeed, nor allow us to prepare for the next enlargement under the proper conditions.
Having said that, I would like to refer you to the spirit of my report, which is to prepare as well as possible for Romania’s accession in 2007, because I too think that both Romania and Bulgaria will be able to accede on 1&#160;January&#160;2007.
The report I am presenting aims to be a useful and effective instrument for the coming months.
The Commission’s report, which Mr&#160;Rehn presented on 25&#160;October, was also exemplary in this regard.
I would like to reaffirm the European Parliament’s friendship towards Romania and our desire to work towards a common objective&#160;–&#160;to enable enlargement to 27 countries following the fall of Communism and the great liberation movement in Eastern Europe&#160;– but, in parallel with that, we must stress that we are serious in our requirements and that our criteria are firmly set.
In addition, my report is conscious of the problems faced by Romania, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs regarding the transparency of the legal system, the fight against corruption, organised crime, border control, administrative capacity, recognition or protection of the Hungarian minority –&#160;to which I shall return&#160;– and also in the environmental sphere and in terms of the implementation of legislation.
It is a specific and concrete provision and a guarantee of the seriousness of the accession process; even so, it must not be seen as a threat or a punishment, but as a mechanism intended to give Bulgaria and Romania the time they need to prepare for integration in the internal market and to ensure that accession takes place under the best possible conditions both for the existing Member States and for the new ones.
That is the spirit of my report, a spirit, moreover, that closely mirrors that of Mr&#160;Van&#160;Orden’s report, and I think that, tomorrow, Parliament will be able to demonstrate its desire to take one more step towards accession on 1&#160;January&#160;2007.
I would now like to say a few words on the amendments discussed and prepared in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
However, I believe that three or four delicate issues remain that will have to be discussed tomorrow, and I would like to express my feelings in that regard; that is the role of the rapporteur.
A second very delicate and very important issue relates to adoption.
To my mind, we perhaps need to put more emphasis on the interests of the child and on the legal framework of the UN, in addition to Romanian law, in resolving contentious issues arising from the moratorium&#160;– and, as rapporteur, I am aware of a number of such issues.
Several amendments have been proposed by Mr&#160;Wiersma and Mr&#160;Lagendijk.
In my report, I proposed the idea of self-governance.
It was apparent from the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that many took the view that, while respect for minorities was vital, we should not be giving the Romanian Government orders regarding the method, the procedure or the practical form that this increased autonomy should take.
Finally, we reached a consensus last week that this report should avoid mentioning the rumours regarding the secret activities of the CIA.
Neither country should spare any effort or time in completing the challenging work still to be done on the domestic front.
I welcome the active part played by the European Parliament and its Committee on Foreign Affairs and the reports prepared by Mr Moscovici and Mr Van Orden, which highlight the strong and weak points relating to the progress of both countries to date.
At the same time, they need to make further efforts, in particular to strengthen the rule of law, to improve public administration and the justice system, to fight corruption and to protect vulnerable groups effectively.
Structural economic reforms need to be continued in both countries for them to meet the economic criteria for membership fully.
Bulgaria and Romania still have a lot more to do and it is important that we, together – Parliament, the Member States and the Commission – keep reminding both countries to stay focused on the significant internal work still to be done.
On 7&#160;November, I sent a letter to both Foreign Ministers Kalfin and Ungureanu, in which I urged Bulgaria and Romania to take immediate and decisive action to address the gaps and shortcomings in their preparations.
Our next rendezvous on this topic will be to discuss a report focusing on the actions taken by Bulgaria and Romania to address the main remaining shortcomings that were identified in October’s comprehensive monitoring report.
The Commission intends to present this report to Parliament and to the Council in May 2006.
At that moment, the Commission may recommend that the Council postpone accession until 1&#160;January 2008, if there is a serious risk of either country being manifestly unprepared to meet the requirements of membership by January 2007 in a number of important areas.
As President Barroso promised earlier this year, and in the spirit of our discussions in April to create an extended assent procedure, the Commission will use its regular dialogue with the European Parliament and will listen to Parliament’s views on the possible use of the postponement clause.
The Commission would seriously consider these views before issuing any recommendation to associate fully the European Parliament in any possible decision to postpone accession.
I am ready to meet the Foreign Affairs Committee in the course of the spring, for instance in April, to exchange views on the situation then in Bulgaria and Romania.
Let me conclude by thanking the European Parliament for its constructive and balanced approach towards Bulgaria and Romania’s accession to the European Union.
The Commission always welcomes the strong commitment of Parliament in the accession process and its close follow-up of developments in Bulgaria and Romania.
The June 2005 European Council reiterated these conclusions and welcomed the signing of Bulgaria and Romania’s accession Treaty in Luxembourg on 25&#160;April.
It is not difficult to see why the European Parliament and the Council have supported Romania and Bulgaria’s European Union aspirations.
Since they started on the path to EU membership, both Bulgaria and Romania have implemented far-reaching political and economic changes.
Indeed, as Commissioner Rehn has emphasised and emphasised previously in July, it is crucial to the success of enlargement that any new country joining the Union is well prepared to cope with the obligations of membership.
It is in all of our interests that Bulgaria and Romania are ready to join the European Union on 1 January 2007, as has already been suggested in the course of our debate.
The report on Bulgaria shows that it meets the political criteria for membership, but further work is still needed to address remaining shortcomings.
These include taking decisive action to reform the justice system and substantially stepping up the fight against organised crime and corruption, including at a high level.
Generally, Bulgaria needs to step up its efforts to complete preparations and to develop a sufficient administrative and judicial capacity to implement and enforce our Union’s legal order in full.
Other concerns relate to the implementation of the European Union’s external border requirements and procedures, police cooperation and the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights in order to fight piracy and the broader issue of counterfeiting.
Romania needs to take decisive action to reform the justice system and substantially step up the fight against corruption, including at a high level.
It should also pursue reforms of the public administration system and further efforts are needed to improve the situation of the disabled and mentally ill, a topic which I know is close to this Parliament’s heart.
I would agree with the Commission’s assessment that Romania should be in a position to comply with economic criteria by accession, provided it continues and intensifies its efforts, in particular by paying attention to its external balance, public sector wage policy and the government’s revenue base.
As with Bulgaria, Romania must address concerns over the implementation of the European Union’s external border requirements and procedures, and concerns over the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights.
I clearly acknowledge that before this Parliament today.
The Commission’s report provides an effective roadmap, identifying clearly the key weaknesses, and should help guide Bulgaria’s approach.
As my Prime Minister, Tony Blair, said to this Parliament in June, enlargement is an historic opportunity to build a greater and more powerful Union.
Then it was to discuss the report presented by the Commissioner, Mr Rehn.
As the Commissioner has said, in the spring the Commission will produce a report on Romania’s degree of preparedness and give its opinion on the possible creation of a mechanism that could delay effective accession by one year.
This Parliament will then also issue its opinion on this issue, as laid down in the text that we will vote on tomorrow.
The Romanian Government must therefore carry on making the greatest possible effort in this and other areas.
In summary, Romania has an historic date with the European Union on 1 January 2007.
As the report states, Parliament is reiterating its desire for this to take place, but it also stresses that achieving that objective depends, firstly, on the Romanian authorities fulfilling their commitments.
With a few amendments, I am happy to say that both reports are balanced and accurately reflect the current situation of the two countries.
I do not wish to repeat the statements of those who spoke before me nor the criticism given by the Council and the Commission, because, as I already mentioned in October, during the debate following the country report of the Commission, the observers from the two countries are here in order to be able to provide a first-hand report to their decision makers both on deficiencies and on the desirable decisions proposed by Parliament.
In the course of the debate this morning, during the preparation of the summit that will take place this weekend, it became unequivocally clear that all Groups of Parliament emphasised the importance of solidarity throughout the European Union, because this is the only way we can maintain our competitiveness.
I expect the Romanian Government to adopt the Minority Act specified in the Coalition Agreement as soon as possible, as promised.
The Commission will be producing its next progress report on the two countries early next year, and, as Mr Millán Mon has remarked, it will be doing so in a changed climate, one brought about by the constitutional crisis in which the EU finds itself.
Let me just say a few things with specific reference to Bulgaria.
The Liberal Group would like to see Romania and Bulgaria become Member States of the EU in 2007.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while acknowledging the efforts made by both these countries, we are concerned by some of the points of criticism made in the Commission’s report.
We tabled amendments to the Van Orden report relating to the environment and human rights, but they were, unfortunately, rejected.
My group has tabled a number of amendments on this score, including Amendment 7, about the continued extortion engaged in by the police and customs to the detriment of EU citizens of Turkish origin travelling through Bulgaria.
The people in the Netherlands and France who voted against the proposed Constitution are opposed to the neoliberal policy that destroys their welfare provisions and takes away their social security.
This is not only because of our geographical proximity, but also because we have shared a difficult history over recent decades.
The British Presidency’s proposal for the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective makes no provision for the costs of the new enlargement.
What this also means is that there will be nowhere near enough EU funding available to create a level playing field for Bulgaria and Romania in development terms, both before and after they join the EU.
This can be taken as yet more proof that the EU principle of solidarity has been a dead letter for many years. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
On 14&#160;January 2005, to be specific, the Romanian Prime Minister assured the Italian press that all pending cases of international adoption would be analysed one by one by a committee of international experts.
The Treaty has been concluded, but the treaties with these countries are equipped with safeguard clauses.
Hence the need for implementation in the areas mentioned by the Commissioner in his last report and in his letter – dated 9 November, I believe – to the governments of the two countries, and to which the President-in-Office made reference here today, namely corruption, organised crime, border security, food safety within the European single market, consequences for the internal market itself, the rule of law and the development of administration and the justice system.
The areas of concern and criticism are, above all, a guidebook for those countries’ governments and parliaments to take the necessary measures in the time that is left.
They need to give more attention to the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as to the reinforcement of the judiciary.
In addition, the European Parliament, in its reports, highlights the importance of the position of the Roma in both countries.
The inclusion of a safeguard clause which makes it possible to move the date of accession back one year was important in this respect, as well as the pledge by the Commission and Council to involve Parliament fully in the decision as to whether this safeguard clause should apply or not.
We will state our opinion on this in the spring of 2006.
Mr&#160;President, this is a question of human rights.
Denying a child a family, after the child has already hugged and come to know and love his or her potential adoptive parents, can in no way be justified; the child’s interests must remain paramount in all circumstances.
Further amendments have been tabled today by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
As the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe we shall support them, because we want the situation to be duly acknowledged by the Romanian authorities and a solution to be found to it.
I therefore believe that the observers, who have been here in Parliament since 26&#160;September, can very usefully help their government to fulfil the commitments it has made, including by exchanging experiences with colleagues from other countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Verts/ALE Group has tabled an amendment to paragraph&#160;19 of the Bulgaria report.
Although the rapporteur welcomes practical measures taken to improve integration, key reforms to combat discrimination are still at the early stages.
The good news is that 86&#160;Bulgarian institutions recently started legal proceedings against Mr Siderov, leader of the neo-Nazi party Ataka.
This initiative deserves our support.
I think this is a sad day for Parliament. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;As of 1&#160;January&#160;2007, Bulgaria and Romania will be EU Member States.
Some of the conditions laid down in the Treaty of Accession work to the advantage of these countries, whereas others are nothing short of discriminatory from the point of view of the first pillar.
The end result of negotiations on this matter should in fact be that the common interests of the EU Member States, including the new Member States, are given clear priority.
The reports pass over this issue.
It is particularly important that such security be guaranteed in terms of electricity supply to the region that may be affected by the decommissioning of several blocks of the Kozloduj power plant, as mentioned by Mr&#160;Horáček.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would call on you once again to help ensure that the new Member States’ accession to the European Union proceeds smoothly.
We should not allow these countries to endure continued hardship after 1&#160;January 2007, confronted as they are by massive problems, caused by the pressure to privatise that has been exerted unscrupulously by external influences.
In fact, travellers have now started to anticipate the officers’ behaviour, and so it is that, according to an official report by the Dutch Government published just one and a half weeks ago, many people crossing the Bulgarian border have a small amount of money tucked away in their passports that is intended for the Bulgarian customs officers.
The fact is that the Romanian authorities set just as much store by the fight against corruption.
In a word, Bucharest has been asked to take action. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe Romania remains on track for accession by 1&#160;January 2007.
However, the new government must continue reforming the judiciary, upholding media freedom, enabling property restitution, protecting minorities and children and fighting organised crime.
Romania continues to comply with the criterion of being a functioning market economy, but there are still concerns on state aid and bankruptcy laws.
I speak now as one who has been a Member of the EU-Romania Joint Parliamentary Committee since 1994 and who has visited many times, seeing the significant advances, particularly in the fields of freedom of expression, justice, minorities and children.
I look forward to the day when Romanian colleagues are in this Chamber as elected Members of this European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the preparations of both Bulgaria and Romania for EU membership seem to be proceeding as expected.
Both countries have encountered problems, which can nevertheless be overcome.
Hopefully both countries can join the Union at the start of 2007.
The Union is both politically and institutionally prepared to accept Bulgaria and Romania as its members.
This strategy is associated with debates on the Union’s ability to accept more members and alternatives to full membership.
The future has to be built on two fundamental facts.
It would therefore be wise to start drafting a new Treaty more suited to an expanding Union and one that will have the approval of the citizens of the Member States.
This remark is addressed particularly to Members who already know that Romania will not make it next year.
It is also addressed to those Members who already know that Romania will succeed anyway, irrespective of the fact whether it will meet the conditions prescribed.
There is every reason for Parliament to remain critical to the last moment, particularly in the areas that are so sensitive and difficult as the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
These reports highlight their levels of corruption, the proliferation of organised crime, and the need for the reform of their legal and economic systems among many other things.
It is unlikely that these countries will be able to transform themselves into the paragons of virtue they are supposed to be before they can join in one year’s time.
Their membership is part of the grand plan for the creation of a United States of Europe, and all other factors are subordinate to that ambition. &#160;&#160; In spite of all the accusations voiced in the Romanian press and in many press briefings, I am not against the accession of Romania, I am not speaking out against the interests of Romania.
But – with deep respect for the population of Romania – I know that accession must be successful for each Romanian citizen.
However, I believe that this chance must also be provided to the Hungarian community in Romania, who have already had their fair share of political window-dressing, but what they actually see is that only a few of the essential issues have been solved.
When the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament votes that the situation of this community should be settled on the basis of European principles such as self-governance and subsidiarity, the Romanian Prime Minister asks the Liberal Group in Brussels to remove the principle of self-governance from the text and replace it with ‘cultural autonomy’.
Please support me in ensuring that we adhere to our basic European principles, to our April resolution – and let us not amend paragraph 26 of the Moscovici report.
If we do not demand that these basic principles be implemented, no one else will do it in our place. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is a fact that Romania and Bulgaria have made significant progress in incorporating and applying the , thanks to consistent support in the enlargement strategy on the part of the European Union.
Today both countries, Bulgaria and Romania, are at a critical stage and there are some real serious deficits.
For its part, the European Commission must help within the framework of the pre-accession strategy and within the framework of the programmes which exist for the transfer of Community know-how.
I believe and trust that the Romanian authorities, with respect for international law and with respect for Romanian law, will resolve this humanitarian problem, which is worrying adoptive parents in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is good that the ground rules for the accession process should be clear and, in my view, they are indeed so.
Romania’s and Bulgaria’s accession to the EU will be a strong catalyst and a factor that will increase security throughout the region.
I am convinced that, with our help, these countries can successfully accede to EU membership no later than in January 2007.
I am also convinced that this is not possible without our help and support and without a positive perspective. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I too should like to take this opportunity to call on the Bulgarian and Romanian authorities to step up the pace of their work and to speed up their preparations for joining the European Union.
A very accurate account of these weak points is given in the Van Orden and Moscovici reports.
Both Bulgaria and Romania played a very positive role during the 1990s when war was raging in the Balkans, and acted as a stabilising force.
It is my firm belief that the two countries will continue to play such a role, and that they will set an example not only to their Balkan neighbours, but also to certain small-time politicians, most of whom hail from the old Member States, who are starting to lose heart and to cast doubt upon the very purpose of European enlargement. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too agree with everyone in this Chamber who has stressed that, only with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania on 1 January 2007 will the fifth enlargement be complete.
I believe that Bulgaria should honour the commitment it made when it signed the Accession Treaty and close units 3 and 4.
Finally, as far as Romania is concerned, I too believe that the very important question of adoptions must be addressed in its correct dimension. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the enlargement has been of great benefit to the European Union, including its old countries, and we must turn away from the populists who claim otherwise.
This House was forced to decide really early on, 20 months prior to accession, but we will not take the actual decision on the question when those countries can join until we have received the last piece of information, namely in April, although it is more likely to be May, of next year.
Our verdict will depend on this: fair but objective and also faithful to our values.
Knowing the Commissioner, I trust that he will also operate along those lines, that, if the outcome is good enough, the countries in question can join in 2007, but that, if there is a shortcoming, the Commission will suggest postponing their accession by one year.
The tabled motion for resolution addresses deficiencies critically but fairly.
I would like to call attention to the importance of the following amendment proposals, accepted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The situation of the draft Minority Act included in the programme of the Romanian Government is uncertain.
Like all candidate states so far, Romania can only obtain the licence needed for accession on the basis of actual results. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am very glad to participate in this debate, mainly to give a voice to the many children, young adults with handicaps and those living in inappropriate state institutions in Romania, which I visited recently.
However, before I do that, let me just say a few words about the EU budget talks that are ongoing for 2007 onwards.
This is detailed in the monitoring report of the Enlargement Commission.
I would like to mention, as some of my colleagues have, the issue of the ‘pipeline children’, the inter-country adoptions.
We need to get clarification from the Romanian authorities about these children.
However, what is most important is that the needs of the children are placed above all else.
Too many people still live in unacceptable conditions in Romania’s institutions.
The considerable progress made by Romania is also clear from the progress report put forward by Commissioner Rehn in the last part-session.
The meeting was also attended by Vice-President Frattini, Commissioner Rehn, the Romanian observers to the European Parliament and the Romanian Government representative.
Following all these reports, which bear witness to the efforts made by Romania, we reaffirm the need for that country to sustain its commitment in order to be able to join us on 1&#160;January 2007.
A serious problem that remains unresolved, however, is that of the children who have already made contact with their potential new families, because of the new legislation that prohibits international adoptions.
In that respect, we shall maintain Amendment 38 to paragraph 14 of the Moscovici report, in the hope that the Romanian Government will adopt immediate decisions to resolve this issue.
The interventions we have heard have reinforced the importance of enlargement in my mind and underlined the benefits it brings to candidate countries and indeed the wider Member States.
As in our previous debate, honourable Members’ points and questions went to the heart of the issue and raised some interesting issues for us to consider about Romania and Bulgaria’s accession processes and the wider policy of enlargement.
Mr Tannock and Mr Belder mentioned the issue of corruption and, in particular, concern in relation to border guards and the security thereof.
The new governments have demonstrated a real commitment to tackle these problems and we have seen some progress, but there is still a long way to go.
Mr Beglitis and Mr Tannock also mentioned the issue international adoption, a point that was then touched upon by Ms McGuinness in a later contribution to the debate.
The Romanian authorities set up a group of experts in June 2005, who are working through the files of the children concerned, to analyse each specific case and to look for solutions within the context of the legislation currently in force.
Ms McGuinness, Ms Sbarbati and Ms de Groen-Kouwenhoven also mentioned children in the wider sense and asked what is being done in relation to the treatment of children in both of these countries.
We are certainly concerned about the plight of institutionalised children whose living conditions are generally inadequate in both of these countries.
For example, in the case of Bulgaria, the government has established six regional offices of the State Agency for Child Protection since early 2005 to take forward improvements.
Since 2000, it has reduced the number of children in care homes from 37 000 down to the present figure of 32 000.
Mr Piotrowski suggested – on a different matter entirely, but one that it is apposite to respond to, not least given the timing of this debate – that the Presidency’s proposals on the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013 could not accommodate Romania and Bulgaria and failed to meet the criteria for solidarity.
That historic shift in funding, which includes significant cuts in receipts for the United Kingdom, shows why our proposals are all about solidarity, which featured prominently in his remarks.
The Commission, under the capable leadership of Commissioner Rehn, will continue to monitor progress closely and will produce a follow-up report in April or May next year.
It is also good that there was emphasis in the speeches on the fact that this is now about bringing to conclusion the latest, which is to say the fifth, round of enlargement.
My opinion is that the Commission and the European Parliament, as well as the Presidency, with reference to Mr&#160;Alexander’s important speech, should consider Bulgaria’s and Romania’s preparations for membership very much in the same way and putting emphasis on the same things.
Reform of the judicial system in particular is absolutely essential.
It is essential for the legal protection of the citizens of Bulgaria and Romania, it is essential from the point of view of economic dynamics and foreign investment, and it is also essential for the implementation of EU legislation in these countries.
We have a responsibility for ensuring that we assess fairly and objectively whether these countries are ready in this respect to accede to the Union in 2007.
The coming months will be decisive for both countries.
This chance should be taken seriously in Bulgaria and Romania, and every endeavour should be made to achieve eligibility for membership, so that both countries can join in January 2007.
We will be completely objective in our assessment of how prepared these countries are in the light of hard facts.
The Commission will support the reforms in Bulgaria and Romania, follow developments and in due course present Parliament and the Council with an assessment of this progress.
I would suggest that we return to the matter during the spring, when we will have a more accurate idea of how Bulgaria and Romania have progressed in their efforts to achieve eligibility for membership at the beginning of 2007. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; I would like to draw your attention within the framework of the Moscovici Report on the importance of safeguarding the rights of the Hungarian minority, the largest minority in Romania.
I strongly believe that it is the political responsibility of the European Parliament to ensure that all aspects including minorities' protection are appropriately dealt with while addressing Romania's readiness to access the European Union.
In my opinion, minority issues are indeed at least as important as economic issues. &#160;&#160; In spring 2006, the European Commission will submit to the Council its Final Opinion on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania in January&#160;2007.
The accession of these countries depends on their ability to meet the commitments made in the accession treaty.
Although the reports relating to the readiness of Romania and Bulgaria stress how much progress has been made, particularly in terms of the market economy, it is clear that the pace of reform needs to be increased, particularly in Romania, in order to strengthen the administrative and legal system, fight corruption, integrate the Roma and improve border controls.
This enlargement faces the European Union with a twofold challenge: we must not disappoint the Bulgarian and Romanian citizens who have great hopes for this accession; but at the same time we need to explain to our citizens, at a time when the European Union is going through a major political and budgetary crisis, the good reasons for this enlargement, which is opposed by the large majority of public opinion. &#160;&#160; A delegation from Austria, headed by Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, has arrived in the Chamber.
We will take the following questions to the Council.
It is obviously vital that any solution strikes the right balance between the objectives of health and safety protection for workers, and the protection and promotion of Europe’s competitiveness in the context of globalisation. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, thank you for that reply.
My responsibility instead is to answer on behalf of the Presidency.
This confusion has arisen out of the discovery that, as she suggested, some Member States were applying the limits in the Working Time Directive per contract, thereby allowing people to work much longer than 48&#160;hours per week by having more than one contract.
I believe that this is a tactical manoeuvre; a manoeuvre that has divided the Council, which is wasting time and which is not going to bring us any closer to a final solution.
Let me assure the honourable Member that we remain committed to securing a European solution that respects national labour practices whilst providing appropriate levels of worker protection and promoting European competitiveness in line with Europe’s jobs and growth objectives. &#160;&#160; I should like to congratulate the Presidency and indeed those other countries within the Council that recognise the importance of retaining the opt-out.
The European Council next week is likely to assess the opinion with a view to establishing the European Union’s position.
The Commission’s opinion notes the important progress achieved by FYROM.
Fortunately, the country is today engaged in a constructive drive for European Union membership.
That meeting afforded me the opportunity to discuss with her the very ambitious plans she had for continued economic reform.
Between 1992 and 2004 the European Union committed some EUR&#160;736&#160;million to the country. &#160;&#160; Question No 12 has been withdrawn by its author and will therefore not be taken.
So, as you say, it is in the Treaty but it is up to Member State governments to change that.
However, again, if this is a matter which is of concern to the honourable Member, I would suggest that, given the very heavy programme that we face in the next couple of days in relation to future financing, it might be an issue better directed towards our successors. &#160;&#160; It is not just a matter of energy efficiency, but of financial efficiency.
I perhaps have a clearer understanding of the potency of this issue for MEPs after taking up my responsibilities as Minister for Europe in the course of the Presidency and having seen for myself the challenges that all Members face in negotiating the journey between Brussels and Strasbourg on a monthly basis.
I have to say, respectfully, however, that, given the sentiment within Parliament this morning about the urgent and pressing need to find agreement on future financing, I am not entirely convinced that raising this issue with our colleagues from Paris, at this particular stage, would be considered the most constructive contribution the British Presidency could make to finding agreement on future financing. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, can you confirm that, according to the Treaties, the European Parliament has one single seat?
The Joint Council-Commission report on social protection and social inclusion provides useful information on policies for combating poverty within Member States.
This agreement will build on the outcome of the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy agreed at the European Council in March, which set out a new strategic focus on jobs and on growth.
The spring European Council specifically reaffirmed that strengthening social cohesion would remain a core objective of the Union and that modernising social protection and fostering social inclusion were key priorities. &#160;&#160; I suppose, very much like motherhood and apple pie, everybody in the European Union, the Member States, all the political groupings, rhetorically at least, share a commitment to social solidarity, social justice, social cohesion.
However, I would put it to the Council that, particularly in the course of this Presidency, much of the credibility around that rhetoric has been undermined.
Can I ask you to comment on a number of things, please: Firstly, on the issue of the budget and the financial perspectives, I am sure you have a view in terms of how this will be financed, and secondly to comment on measures such as the Services Directive ... &#160;&#160; .
That is why it is a matter of immense pride to me that, in recent months, we have seen a commitment from European Development Ministers, and then a decision endorsed by European Finance Ministers, to effectively double the level of European overseas development assistance, from USD&#160;40&#160;billion to USD&#160;80&#160;billion.
I make no apology, therefore, and in no way resile from the fact that every Member in this House should feel huge pride in this matter as we seek to meet our obligations towards the world’s poorest people.
However, we must recognise that the market has to be balanced by the kind of social funding which has been provided historically within this Union.
That is why, on the second point raised in relation to the coming financial prospective, I want to see the position articulated by the British Presidency this afternoon, the second negotiating box, form the basis on which agreement can be reached.
The sums of money in question are considerable and will provide the basis on which not just the new accession countries but all countries can strengthen their economies and thereby strengthen their capability to secure the very solidarity and social justice so often discussed in this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Which social model is chosen has an incredible effect on equality.
The Hague Programme for strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, approved by the European Council in November 2004, has invited Member States, the Council and the Commission to promote the structural exchange of experience and information on integration, supported by the development of a widely accessible website on the internet.
In December, ministers agreed on the need to reinforce cooperation on integration, in particular via the network of national contact points on integration.
This integration network, established in 2003 and supported by the Commission, has played an important role in the framework of the exchange of information and best practice and has provided very valuable contributions in the drafting of the ‘Handbook on integration for policy-makers and practitioners’, published by the Commission in 2004.
It is valuable work, which we must keep up in the coming months.
The Council has expressed support for future comprehensive multilateral negotiations, which reflects its wish for substantial progress in world trade liberalisation, securing continuing global economic growth, increased job creation, prosperity and sustainable development, and addressing the concerns of civil society.
The Council has noted that a further multilateral change of trade was the best way to meet the challenges posed by economic and technological change and increasing globalisation.
The Council sees this multilateral change as the most appropriate approach for achieving substantial and balanced results for the benefit of all WTO members.
On the contrary, a good trade deal is an important part of our efforts to tackle poverty and promote global security in the long term, which have been such a focus of our work in the course of our Presidency. &#160;&#160; As it is Christmas, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his handling of Question Time and his wit.
With regard to the WTO, could you comment on the difference between free trade and fair trade?
I now see a whole new employment possibility opening up before me.
I am not sure if my observations were always intentionally humorous, but I shall take the compliment in the spirit in which it was intended in this holiday season.
On the serious and substantive point that the honourable lady raises with me, I can assure you this has been a matter that we have given much thought to in the course of our Presidency, both as a result of the extraordinary meeting of the General Affairs Council that took place to discuss the terms of the mandate for Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson, in light of the fact that, from the government that presently holds the Presidency, not only Margaret Beckett but also Hilary Benn and Alan Johnson are presently in Hong Kong doing what they can to sustain our case that the best outcome in Hong Kong would be a balanced and ambitious outcome which would allow a successful conclusion of the round.
However, that raises exactly the point that the honourable Member addressed: what is a balanced and ambitious outcome for the Hong Kong talks and, indeed, for the Doha development round in general?
The 2005 Comprehensive Monitoring Report for Romania welcomes the new legislation on children's rights and adoption, which came into force in January 2005.
Parliament has consistently stressed the great importance that it attaches to the issue of care of children, the disabled and the mentally ill in Romania.
The Union’s views were reiterated during the latest meeting with the European Union-Romania Association Council on 14 June 2005.
The Commission’s 2005 comprehensive monitoring report on Romania, to which the honourable Member refers, is still being examined by the Council.
The Council’s general opinion, however, remains clear on these issues.
This applies to all areas of care, but is particularly important with regard to the situation for the disabled and the mentally ill.
The Council will closely follow and evaluate future developments and continue to raise these concerns directly with Romania. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
The EU monitoring and advocacy programme of the Open Society Institute has stated that there is a total absence of reliable, comprehensive data on mentally disabled persons in Romania, which has contributed to a general lack of public attention to people with intellectual disabilities.
From the Minister’s reply, I take it that assistance in this area would be an immediate priority as part of the EU’s monitoring of issues in relation to persons with mental disabilities in Romania.
In relation to the substantive point that he raises, however, this matter was addressed directly in the Commission monitoring report to which I referred.
Psychiatric care requires more immediate attention: living conditions for patients are poor and budgetary resources, as was implied, are limited.
The 2002 Law on Mental Health and Protection of People with Psychological Disorders is still not being implemented.
The government has begun to tackle this issue and we want to see this work stepped up. &#160;&#160; This is a very serious issue.
This should be adopted at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 20 and 21&#160;December 2005. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Alexander for his answer.
I do not believe that the advice to which Mr&#160;Alexander referred meets these criteria.
The Council does not have information on, nor does it deem it appropriate to comment on the state of the domestic legislation of Member States in this regard. &#160;&#160; – Thank you for that very succinct answer.
The Council has done very little to encourage the EU Member States to ratify the Hague Convention on parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, which regulates such issues.
Member States are signatories to conventions individually, rather than collectively.
Over the past few years, the European Union institutions, working with Member States, have made significant progress on children’s rights.
The European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights (2000) explicitly recognises the rights of children as fundamental to European values.
Perhaps with your indulgence, Madam President, I could also take this opportunity – given that you have intimated that this is the final question to be answered – to thank all the members of the Council secretariat for their very considerable hard work in producing the draft replies in the course of our Presidency to the questions that have been raised by Members of this Parliament.
Provisions for reform within the Constitutional Treaty – and I have certainly experienced this in the course of our Presidency – may be sensible to one Member State but controversial to another.
Therefore, the focus of the United Kingdom Presidency has been to engage consciously in a wider debate about the future of Europe.
It was agreed to come back to the matter in the first half of 2006, in the Spring Council of the Austrian Presidency, to make an overall assessment of the national debates and agree on how to proceed at that stage. &#160;&#160; If you indulge me, may I take the opportunity to thank the representatives of the Presidency for all the help and assistance they have given my colleagues over the recent months.
May I thank the President-in-Office in particular; I have much enjoyed these exchanges over the recent weeks, taking place in a rather empty public library though, sometimes it may seem.
If the fine words and good intentions of the President-in-Office could deliver firm results, the Council would have ensured that changes in its Rules of Procedure were now on the way to being put into practice.
Firstly, we will both recall the terms of the statement made by our Prime Minister before this Assembly at the outset of the British Presidency and that has informed the approach that I have taken to this issue of transparency in the Council.
The Presidency tabled an options paper on improving Council transparency in November 2005.
The honourable Member will have to wait a little longer before, I hope, we secure the kind of agreement that will give him the satisfaction he seeks this evening. &#160;&#160; On the wider package of the Constitutional Treaty as a whole, does the President-in-Office of the Council accept that the European Council was right, in the light of the fact that a majority of Member States have actually ratified this Constitutional Treaty?
The British Government, even before assuming the office of the Presidency of the European Union, argued for the need for a period of reflection.
In the course of that Presidency our Prime Minister has made clear his personal judgement that he believes it is necessary to get the politics in a better place before returning to the institutional question.
He has said that the modern Conservative Party is more extreme than the Conservative Party under William Hague or indeed Iain Duncan Smith.
I have already paid generous tribute to the work of one of the British Conservatives in this Chamber today, who through his role as a rapporteur in relation to the accession of one of the potential candidate countries of the European Union, has undertaken important work on behalf of this Parliament.
The marginalisation of what was once a great political party, as envisaged by its new leader, would be a diminution not simply of the Conservative Party but of Britain’s national interest.
I fear it will be the first of many by the new Conservative leader. &#160;&#160; Question 23 lapses on the grounds that it relates to a problem that we have discussed this afternoon.
Question Time is closed. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A6-0338/2005), on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on machinery, and amending Directive 95/16/EC [5786/2/2005 – C6-0267/2005 – 2001/0004(COD)] (rapporteur: Andreas Schwab). &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before turning to the Machinery Directive itself, I should like to start by extending very warm thanks to all those involved in this process, and especially to the shadow rapporteurs of the various other groups.
It is for this reason that I am extremely grateful to him for working together with us towards our goal, even though the work is perhaps not progressing quite as quickly as we might all have liked.
In the end, however, I withdrew my amendment to this effect in response to the serious concerns, most of which were voiced by the Commission, over the safety loopholes that could arise as a result.
At the same time, however, Parliament has made a considerable step forward from the original Common Position as far as the confidentiality of trade secrets is concerned, and in my opinion the same also applies to the scrapping of machinery.
We are of course all aware that sustainable production is crucially important for Europe, with a view to meeting the Lisbon goals, but there can be no question that we were right to avoid making manufacturers responsible across the board, as it were, for the scrapping of machinery, since it is genuinely impossible for them to know all the details of the scrapping process in advance.
Furthermore, these manufacturers are often small and medium-sized enterprises.
It is also my belief that we still have more work to do together on the matter of certification, and especially third-party certification, since the position outlined in the Common Position with regard to the CE marking was in no way acceptable for the Members of this House.
Not only would this be advantageous in itself, but in my opinion it would also fall under the heading of better regulation.
Nevertheless, when drafting this legislation we must once again give serious thought to the role of the CE marking in the European Union, to the quality and safety standards that we associate with it and to the bodies that are responsible for monitoring these standards.
The situation in which we find ourselves today could be aptly summed up by the famous proverb, ‘good things come to those who wait’.
The history of the revision of the Machinery Directive is a very long one.
When the Commission presented its proposal for a directive in early 2001, following lengthy discussions with all those involved, no&#160;one expected that it would take five&#160;years and a record-breaking 43&#160;Council working group meetings to complete this revision, to say nothing of Parliament’s work.
In 2004, the mechanical engineering sector in the European Union produced goods worth EUR&#160;402&#160;billion and employed over 2.6&#160;million engineers, technicians and other workers, most of whom were highly qualified.
Mechanical engineering production in the EU exceeds that in Japan and the USA by a long way.
I am delighted to be able to tell you that the Commission can accept in full the compromise reached by Parliament and the Council.
In actual fact, the outcome of this compromise represents a significant improvement over the Machinery Directive 98/37/EC that is currently in force, and, as Mr&#160;Schwab has already mentioned, it is an excellent example of better regulation.
The scope has now been defined in more detail and ambiguities ironed out, which means that legal certainty has been improved.
A much clearer distinction has been made between this and other directives, such as the Lift Directive or the Low Voltage Directive.
The first declaration reads: ‘Parliament, the Council and the Commission declare that, in order to cover all aspects related to the health and safety of agricultural and forestry tractors in one harmonising directive, Directive 2003/37/EC on type-approval of agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units needs to be modified so as to address all the relevant risks of the Machinery Directive.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Schwab, on the excellent job he has done on a very complex and difficult text, made more difficult because he took it over from our previous rapporteur and colleague, Mr Wieland.
I am very pleased with what the Commissioner said and with the agreement that we have reached to secure a second reading confirmation with the Council.
I would like to pick up one or two of the policy issues.
As the Commissioner indicated, it has been a long and sometimes bumpy road towards the final agreement on this very complex text.
I think we may have problems with this machinery directive, but the Commissioner must address that.
I want to bring a delegation from the construction equipment manufacturers to see him as soon as possible to address their issues as well. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no question that 18&#160;months is a long time for a debate to go on within the Council.
As the Commissioner said, one of the reasons why this revision was necessary was because earlier directives did not go far enough.
For example, we want the Commission to develop guidelines to help the Member States to increase their capacities.
This would enable effective market surveillance with a view to the uniform application of the directive.
We have achieved all these goals.
We would have preferred him to set a date, and to set a date of 2008, but since we will all still be Members of this Parliament at that point we will be able to ensure that the necessary steps are taken.
It is a highly technical subject, but it will have a major impact on the European engineering industry and on the European economy as a whole.
The first reading reflected a reasonable compromise reached after years of debates.
During the second reading, for my part, I paid particular attention to the provisions of that directive relating to CE marking, as I felt that the wording was insufficiently clear in legal terms.
I am grateful to the Council for having accepted my amendment, but I am delighted that the Commission is working on this subject, which still needs to be looked into more deeply.
We were able to make considerable progress towards a common position thanks to the informal three-way talks he arranged, bringing together the chairman of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, the shadow rapporteurs, the representatives of the European Commission and those of the Council.
We have reached a consensus awaited by all those in the industry.
There are still some points that need to be clarified, particularly with regard to tractors, but I remain optimistic and I hope that the problems will be resolved by the effective implementation of this directive.
As a consequence of this, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe will vote for the compromise. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard that mechanical engineering is a crucially important sector of the European economy.
An interesting point that should therefore be stressed in this connection is that this Directive was drafted, , in response to calls from industry, which went to a great deal of effort to get this Directive on the table, with the slogan of ‘one product, one regulation for the internal market’.
It goes without saying that this is a positive development, given that one of the advantages of this legislation is that the same type of machinery, with the same design, can be put into circulation anywhere in the internal market.
As we are all aware, the EU is now operating with 25&#160;Member States.
The principle of ‘less is sometimes more’ also applies in this instance.
I should also like to thank Mrs&#160;Weiler and Mrs&#160;De&#160;Vits, who have shown a high level of commitment and involvement on behalf of my group, thus ensuring that a certain amount of progress has been made in the course of their work with Mr&#160;Schwab.
These considerations are the basis for the quality characteristics that ensure that products such as machinery are market leaders, and that mean that our manufacturers are able to capture a large global market for their products.
What legal certainty means is that mechanical engineers know exactly what rules they have to follow and what regulations are actually in force, and that they are not left in the dark.
At the same time, however, legal certainty also means that we must avoid a situation in which several different directives apply to one product.
It means that we should push forward measures to put in place a uniform regime, especially in the case of the tractor directives.
I have not forgotten that we were told, when we discussed this issue once before with the Commission and the Council at first reading, that the goal was to have everything settled within the next six months.
We should not leave people in the dark, and this includes mechanical engineers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I regard the Machinery Directive, on which we have to deliver a verdict, as much more than simply a technical internal market directive.
The upshot of the negotiations illustrates that Parliament very much has what it takes to make the difference, and I am indebted to the rapporteur, Mr Schwab, and to Mrs Weiler for the way in which they have dealt with this issue.
That is why all Member States must get down to effective market control, for without this market control, this directive remains a paper tiger, as was already the case with the previous directive.
I would like to say to the Commissioner that the Commission should, in my view, closely monitor the Member States’ commitment, check whether they carry out this market inspection and if necessary in future, take an initiative if it were to transpire that they fail to deliver on their promises, in the interest of workers, consumers and manufacturers alike.
Our work is done for now, and I think that we will therefore be able to approve this directive tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
My concern is two-fold: first, the extent of redundancy in the text – there may be circumstances in which repetition is used to good effect, but I do not consider that this is one of them; secondly, the range of issues covered – I believe that the European Parliament should be taking seriously all aspects of the lives of women in the fisheries sector and doing its best to address the problems that affect them.
But the original intention of this report was to concentrate on the role of women’s networks and their potential to contribute to the socio-economic fabric of fisheries-dependent communities.
We have mentioned two of the parallels between their situation and that of women similarly engaged in the agricultural sector and of the possibility of joint action on their parts.
Please also give your encouragement and support to their activities in diversifying local economies, in contributing to the development of the common fisheries policy and in providing a coordinated approach to tackling issues of common concern.
Encouragement and support, however, call for more than just a few kind words; they entail active assistance in accessing the necessary financial means and specific measures to remove all existing social and administrative barriers to women’s full participation and progress in all areas of the fisheries sector.
I welcome the initiative of the European Parliament and share the rapporteur’s commitment to equal opportunities in the fisheries sector.
I also share her opinion that the participation of women’s networks is particularly important in this context.
In the next programming period, 2007-2013, the Commission will attach great importance to promoting the role of women in the fisheries sector.
The proposed European Fisheries Fund reflects the Commission’s commitment to equal opportunities.
The future fund is even more specific about the role of women in fisheries than the current Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance.
I am very pleased to inform you that the European Fisheries Fund proposal will support specific actions like networking and the exchange of experience and best practice among organisations promoting equal opportunities between men and women.
We believe that this option will have more added value than funding small-scale projects, which was the case under the innovative actions formula.
In your report you called on the Commission to promote more vocational training and education specifically geared to the activities of women working in the sector.
The Commission also shares with you the concern about the difficulty in recruiting young people in the fisheries sector.
In addition, there will be increased possibilities for the participation of women in the decision-making process.
The new priority ‘sustainable development of fisheries areas’ will be implemented through a bottom-up approach.
This new approach is a further opportunity for women at local level to get involved in decision-making and to ensure that their specific concerns are taken into account in the local development strategies.
Finally, following the conference on the role of women in fisheries organised in January 2003, I am pleased to inform you that the Commission is planning to organise another conference on equal opportunities in 2006.
This conference will take stock of the situation of women in the fisheries sector and reflect on ways further to improve the situation and make further progress.
I hope that the views of this Parliament will also find reflection in the proceedings of the conference.
In conclusion, I would like to underline the Commission’s determination to attribute great importance to equal opportunities in our policy.
Although just 3% of people employed in extractive fishing are women, women do participate actively in all the other activities relating to fishing.
We would therefore call upon the Commission, together with the Member States, to take the necessary measures to guarantee fully the rights of these women.
Ladies and gentlemen, I must not end without mentioning in particular shellfish gatherers, the majority of whom are women of over 50 years old whose health suffers directly as a result of their work and who in many cases do not have the right to unemployment benefits, to health services or to job security.
I am proud to be able to say that, over recent years, the fisheries authorities in my region have paid particular attention to the role of women, promoting ― and indeed calling urgently for ― the creation of associations and unreservedly supporting the integration of those associations into the existing networks, and arranging international forums and conferences to strengthen them and create new ones, with a view to the exchange of knowledge and experience amongst women from all parts of Europe.
The report by Mrs Attwooll accurately illustrates the role that they have played and the role that women’s networks may yet play in this field and calls upon national administrations and the Commission to continue providing and intensifying their support.
The report also acknowledges the effort that the Commission has already made, holding the Conference on the role of women in the fisheries sector in 2003.
I believe that the measures that the Commission must take in order to support these networks must be aimed in four directions, which are indicated in the report: information, funding, representativeness and training.
A more exhaustive report must be produced.
I would like to announce that my Group is also going to support Mrs Attwooll’s report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to add my warm thanks to Mrs Attwooll for her work, her report and the way in which she has put the women’s networks in Europe on the map.
I would once again like to thank the rapporteur for this report and I hope that the Commissioner will also follow up the recommendations.
We all know that women engaged in coastal fisheries are at a disadvantage, because their work in this sector is classified as supplementary work rather than as a profession.
We need to support and to safeguard the social and economic rights of women in all sectors of the fishing industry: equal pay, pension rights, social security and access to public health services.
The development of these networks should not be based merely on voluntary or one-off actions.
As far as the full application of the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities in the fisheries sector is concerned, I consider that we have fallen a long way behind.
We cannot but welcome the initiative by the Committee on Fisheries and, more importantly, by the excessively modest Mrs Attwooll, in drafting the report.
I, in all events, as shadow rapporteur for my party in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, thank her for including most of my committee's comments.
Not only the European Fisheries Fund but also the Structural Funds and other programmes, such as FEMMES and LEADER, can become tools for special actions, in parallel to educational development and the development of professional skills, the development of adaptability, research programmes into the impact of restructuring in the fishing and farming industries, innovation in production and the promotion of consumption with environmental awareness and respect for biodiversity.
The application of the principle of equal treatment of men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity, including agriculture, and protection during pregnancy are important sectors and the Gender Institute being set up will have a role to play with special research into the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I should like to extend warm thanks to Mrs Attwooll for managing to pinpoint exactly what the role and significance of women in the fisheries industry can be.
The work of women is often invisible, and Mrs&#160;Attwooll’s report helps at any rate to bring it into the light.
A concern for sustainability is something else we can expect from women and women’s networks.
The viability of sustainable fishing is dependent on the full involvement of consumers, as also on the introduction of quality marks that guarantee quality and sustainability.
I would also like to thank all the speakers for their remarks, for the determination they have shown on the subject of equal opportunities for women in fisheries, and for the proposals that they have made to the Commission.
On women’s networks, let me state again that the European Fisheries Fund aims to support networking and the exchange of experience and best practice among organisations promoting equal opportunities.
The focus in the fund on young fishers will also help in the field of equal opportunities.
An important milestone in the reform of the common fisheries policy was in the field of governance through the creation of the regional advisory councils.
I can only express the hope that women’s organisations will take up their place in the regional advisory councils in the same way as they have already done in two out of the three existing regional advisory councils.
In conjunction with the Commissioner responsible for equal opportunities, I will do my utmost constantly to underline to Member States the importance of promoting equal opportunities in the fisheries sector.
The purpose behind that conference is to take stock of the situation concerning equal opportunities in the fisheries sector and then to consider what further initiatives can be taken in conjunction therewith.
I look forward to Parliament’s constructive contribution to that conference. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The funding proposed by this regulation will be an essential part of the fisheries financial perspectives package for 2007-2013.
Next to the European Fisheries Fund, this regulation represents the legal basis for most other expenditure allowing the continuation of the common fisheries policy and, based on the Commission’s original proposal for a financial perspective, it will cover more than EUR&#160;2.5 billion worth of spending in the seven year period from 2007-2013.
The proposal aims to provide a more transparent and simplified framework for the execution of Community financial interventions.
It is geared towards improving the effectiveness of financial interventions in the field of control and enforcement, in the area of data collection and scientific advice, in the strengthening of the governance of the common fisheries policy, and in the area of international relations and the Law of the Sea.
The Commission can accept Amendment&#160;1 and will continue to do what is possible within its competence to work towards ensuring the sustainability of the resources in third countries.
Whereas the Commission is in agreement in principle on the substance of Amendment&#160;2, it has difficulty accepting the form of such an amendment.
The Commission therefore considers that a reference to these conclusions in the recitals of the proposed regulation, as proposed by Amendment&#160;17, is the most appropriate way to include these aspects and can therefore accept Amendment&#160;17.
Since the Natura 2000 network falls under the Community’s environmental policy, the Commission cannot accept Amendment&#160;9 in a regulation which exclusively concerns the common fisheries policy.
The Commission will, however, ensure coherence of the common fisheries policy with environmental objectives.
Whereas the Commission is willing to explore options for funding beyond the currently prescribed five-year period, a commitment cannot be made at this stage since this would not be in line with the current regulation that has established the regional advisory councils, but this request can be reconsidered in the first evaluation of the functioning of the regional advisory councils three years after their establishment.
However, the Commission reserves its right to decide on the justification of such a request on a case-by-case basis and will lead the process of obtaining this advice.
Although the Commission is in agreement in principle on the substance of Amendment&#160;12, it has difficulty accepting the form of such an amendment.
The Commission has difficulty in accepting Amendment&#160;13.
Most of the aspects mentioned in the amendment are covered either by the Council conclusions on fisheries partnership agreements, or by the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
The Commission agrees on the substance of Amendment&#160;14, but not on the form.
In principle, the Commission agrees to provide summaries and aggregations of the collected data on request or for specific needs, but it is not planned at this point automatically to issue this data in the form of a periodic publication or report.
The parties will jointly review the results obtained by this policy.
However, in this context, the Commission cannot impose financial audits or on-the-spot checks on third countries without their agreement.
Each fisheries partnership agreement contains provisions on the payment of funds, as well as on the use of the share of these funds foreseen for the fisheries policy of the third country.
As regards its national budget and financial administration, however, the third country is sovereign.
Concerning Amendment&#160;18, the Commission welcomes the support from Parliament to reinforce the budget for the common fisheries policy in the course of the negotiations on the 2007–2013 financial perspective.
The Commission agrees on the substance of Amendment&#160;19, but not on the form.
This report replaces a number of existing legal measures which provide the basis for current funding beyond monies provided by the European Fisheries Fund.
The total budget foreseen for 2007-2013 is EUR&#160;2&#160;625 million, although the actual amounts, as the Commissioner has said, will depend on the EU budget negotiations.
On control and enforcement, the aim is to improve the control of fishing activities in order to combat those fishing activities that are damaging the conservation of resources within and outside Community waters.
In the area of international relations and the law of the sea, Community financial support is given for the conclusion of fisheries agreements with third countries, including partnership agreements, and participation in international organisations relating to fisheries or the law of the sea.
These have been increased by enlargement and the need to collect data on the new seas – for example, current data on the Black Sea scarcely exists.
They are unlikely to generate sufficient resources of their own after the start-up phase and, indeed, the operating costs are certain to increase after the start-up phase, as the RACs and their working groups – the North Sea RAC already has four of them – progressively generate and implement new projects in support of management guidance to the Commission.
In this regard, I would refer to what this Parliament said in the Böge report on the financial perspective.
I am referring specifically to Amendments 6, 9, 11, 12 and 13, on which I shall comment briefly.
Within the context of this Regulation, and aware of the beneficial consequences of international agreements in the Community’s regions in terms of employment, I understand the Commission’s position on this issue.
To set this objective without specifically mentioning the Community, as Mrs Stihler does, could be a mistake.
Those of us who deal with the CFP know that through this policy we are paying for other obligations laid down within other Community policies, as demonstrated by the increasing economic weight of development cooperation within the fisheries agreements.
I genuinely do not know whether or not you, as rapporteur, have given this criterion of value for money, which I find so difficult to understand, sufficient thought.
We do not deny the importance of these agreements, but we believe that if we are expending European taxpayers’ money, whether for targeted assistance or in relation to fishing rights, we should know exactly how this money is being expended.
If we do not have this information, if we cannot evaluate what is going on, how can we decide whether we should renew them when the time comes?
Only last week, the Environmental Justice Foundation published a report on illegal fishing in Guinea and its links to the European Union.
A telling statistic cited in the report is that Guinea is losing over 34&#160;000 tonnes of fish every year to illegal fishing, worth an estimated USD&#160;110&#160;million.
Several of the amendments in this report would help the Union move towards more responsible fishing agreements.
On a slightly different topic, the ALDE Group welcomes Amendment&#160;11 proposing that funding for the operating costs of regional advisory councils should not be restricted to the first five years.
As the Commissioner has said, they are the cornerstone of the governance of the revised common fisheries policy. &#160;&#160; . – I should like to highlight an issue that was raised in the debate in committee.
The funding provided for in the Commission’s proposal will not enable us to achieve the objectives set out in this regulation, such as the financing of control and enforcement measures, conservation measures, data collection and improvement of scientific advice, governance, international relations and the Law of the Sea.
The financial resources for this important common fisheries policy instrument must be increased, in light of the enlargement of the EU and the more ambitious objectives that have been set out.
The British Presidency’s proposal is just another in the series of cuts being made to the 2007-2013 Community budget.
Accordingly, we have tabled a proposal for an amendment stating that the global financial envelope for fisheries, and specifically for this proposal for a regulation, is woefully inadequate if we are to address the economic and social crisis facing the sector and to meet the needs arising from the 2002 review of the common fisheries policy, and proposing adequate financial resources for the fisheries sector.
Lastly, I wish to say that the regulation continues to be guided by the idea that the sole factor in conserving fisheries resources is to reduce fishing activities at EU level, disregarding other determining factors.
As far as we are concerned, the primary objective should be to promote sustainable modernisation and development in the sector.
Among the most depleted are the plentiful stocks once found in the North Sea and Irish Box, up until 1973 the exclusive province of British fishermen who looked after the fishing grounds and reaped a rich harvest.
Meanwhile, the British fishing fleet has sunk to less than a quarter of its previous size.
It means that the social and economic fabric around the ports declines, while the EU claims to be combating this particular misery.
The fishing industry is a factor in the UK’s GDP to which contributions to the EU budget are geared, and that comes on top of the destruction of a priceless natural resource.
And so, another Christmas goose reduces its output of golden eggs! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, these are difficult times for Europe and the economic crisis has not gone away.
This proposal for a regulation establishes a framework of measures for the purposes of implementing the common fisheries policy, complementing the proposal for a Council regulation on the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), which we debated in the Chamber some months ago.
I wish to highlight the fact that 60% of the budget of EUR&#160;2&#160;625&#160;million, spread across four main operational objectives, has been set aside for international fisheries agreements.
In many cases, small-scale fishing even helps to bolster tourism.
What is worse, this policy has often given the impression of being subject to the law of the lobbies, who are more interested in cultivating their media images and in chasing subsidies than in making a serious effort to protect the environment.
They have had more than enough of a situation in which quotas for fishing days and catch sizes, often laid down without a real scientific basis and traded any old how between the States, are involved in establishing fishing zones.
The Commission must not continue to favour fishermen of one nationality over those of another.
We cannot save fishing and fishery resources without the fishermen and their professional associations and trade unions.
Fishermen, through their representatives, must be truly involved in all decisions affecting them.
The Union must also provide financial aid to the Member States to help them protect their territorial waters against illegal fishing.
Insofar as there is a real problem of funding a fair, sustainable and bold European fisheries policy, we must not forget that one of the threats to resources comes from pollution caused by maritime transport.
On the latter point, I wish to say, as I said before, that the Commission is willing to consider the funding of the regional advisory councils during the review to be undertaken after the third year of their operation.
However, in reality we will hopefully have a 150% increase in control and enforcement, a 160% increase in data collection and scientific advice, a 110% increase in governance and a 120% increase in international relations.
If all goes well, there will be an overall increase of 130% if one compares the 2000-2006 financial period and the 2007-2013 financial period.
Since these are commercial relationships, the monies often go directly to the treasury budget as part of the budget of the state.
However, we intend to strengthen our dialogue with the Commission’s development services, to enhance the effectiveness of these monies in these countries’ general development objectives, in particular in the fisheries sector.
With particular reference to the fisheries partnership agreements, I need to underline that each fisheries partnership agreement contains provisions on the payment of funds under the agreement, as well as on the use of the financial share foreseen for the fisheries policy of the third country.
On the basis of indicators and benchmarks, as I have said before, both parties will jointly evaluate the results of this policy and where appropriate will make the necessary adjustments.
With regard to the remarks made by Mr Clark, I cannot agree with his assertions.
The lower stocks of fish are the result of year upon year of uncontrolled over-fishing and not of the common fisheries policy.
That policy, through its measures, seeks to address the need for balance between the availability of stocks and the fleets that target them.
Finally, the point on coastal fisheries and small-scale fisheries is better addressed under the European Fisheries Fund, which will hopefully be adopted early in 2006. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the joint debate on - the report by Paulo Casaca (A6-0339/2005), on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 2004/465/EC on a Community financial contribution towards Member States’ fisheries control programmes [COM(2005)0328 – C6-0273/2005 – 2005/0136(CNS)]; and - the oral question to the Commission by Philippe Morillon (O-0111/2005 – B6-0344/2005), on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on Community sanctions in the fisheries sector. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, there is increasing agreement between scientists, researchers and environmental NGOs that sustainable fishing requires a stable, long-term link between fishermen and their environment, and between this economic activity and controlling and sanctioning predatory practices.
In her excellent paper on the functioning of a fisheries association in Cangas, in the Spanish region of Galicia, Dora Jesus noted that when that particular fishing community enjoyed exclusive fishing rights in the area, or, more precisely, when it took on the rights and duties of owning natural resources and began to manage its own primary control and sanction systems, it succeeded in recovering stocks of goose barnacle and in making the species ecologically and economically sustainable in the area covered by the association.
The funds and take-up rates proposed by the Commission to support investment in fisheries control by the Member States have been cut to EUR&#160;32&#160;million in 2006, a small amount given the responsibilities awarded to some regions and Member States.
In this context, the waters off the Azores have only been controlled once since they were liberalised on 1&#160;August&#160;2004, in spite of the fact that many dozens of external vessels have been detected by the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) in this EEZ during that time, and that there have sometimes been two dozen at once.
In the absence of any kind of VMS, there is still, as we have just said, no effective protection against unregistered fishing boats and, indeed, legally registered boats, in the poorest and outermost areas of Europe.
At a conference on Maritime Policy and European Sea Strategy held last week by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament in Ponta Delgada, we learned that around 150 different species have been found in the waters off the Azores, many of which are native to the area and some of which can live for literally thousands of years.
The value of these corals and other deep-sea organisms to our heritage will be seen over time and it is widely acknowledged that they have huge biotechnological potential.
The announcement of the Commission’s proposed maritime strategy gave us all hope that we would see some changes in this state of affairs, but to our great dismay we discovered that this proposal envisages zero Community financing.
In other words, it advocates the same approach as before, whereby everyone in Europe can enjoy maritime resources, whereas the responsibility for protecting those resources falls entirely on the people who live in the regions in question.
As regards maritime security and environmental protection, in the Azores we are currently facing a tragedy of enormous proportions.
We therefore feel that a European Coast Guard must be set up as a matter of urgent priority, whereby fisheries control would be integrated with other sea control operations and fisheries would be opened up to the entire European fleet; an effective, modern and harmonised system of control and sanction.
Without that faith it becomes much more difficult to put well considered and effective management tools in place.
I accept that it is agreed minima to which we look, as there must be some room to align the penalty to the value of the catch and to penalise repeat offences more seriously than first offences, but I believe that we need greater uniformity in both the level of penalties and the type of penalties and procedures involved.
The committee has, however, tabled seven amendments to the proposal.
We would like to keep the existing date of 31&#160;January, as the submission of requests early on in the year will allow the Commission to adopt a decision granting the financial contribution in the first semester.
It should also be noted that the national administrations are already fully aware of this time limit.
This can be done through a budgetary arrangement.
However, it is not possible to finance these two new actions if they were not foreseen in the legal text.
The Commission deems that this proposal is the appropriate legal text to introduce them and cannot, therefore, accept these amendments.
In Amendment&#160;4, the committee asks the Commission to establish criteria in order to allocate grants when the amount of request exceeds the available appropriations.
The Commission considers a rate not exceeding 50% to be appropriate, as a general rule, for all kinds of investment.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept 7, since at the end of 2006 most of the projects will not yet have been completed, meaning a report on the decision will be of little use.
I should like to recall that the Commission will present a report on this decision to the European Parliament by 30&#160;June 2008 at the latest.
Concerning Mr Morillon’s oral question to the Commission, may I say that I fully share the view that sanctions, including in the fisheries sector, must be proportionate to the seriousness of the offences committed.
With a view to promoting transparency and to encouraging the application of adequate and dissuasive sanctions against those who commit serious infringements, the Commission publishes an annual communication on serious infringements to the rules of the community fisheries policy.
The Commission has published four of these communications so far.
In its comments on the tables annexed to the communications, the Commission stressed the need to reduce existing disparities regarding the level of sanctions imposed across the Community.
The choice, however, between a penal or administrative procedure lies with the Member State.
In conformity with Article&#160;25(4) of Council Regulation (EC) No&#160;2371/2002, the basic regulation on the CFP, the Commission intends to present in due time a proposal aimed at harmonising at Community level sanctions for serious infringements. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, fisheries control is an important factor in sustaining the sector.
In view of the need to recover certain at-risk fish stocks, support for the Member States must continue in such a way that they can meet their obligations to control, monitor and inspect fisheries activities in the areas under their jurisdiction.
I wish to congratulate my compatriot Mr Casaca on his excellent work as rapporteur on this issue.
Commissioner, despite your remarks, I feel that the amendments made to the original text are indeed appropriate; they would help strike a better balance and make the text more consistent with what it is actually trying to achieve.
Nevertheless, although I lend my wholehearted support to this document I should once again like to draw attention to the fact that it remains extremely difficult, from a financial point of view, for the Member States to implement all of the desired measures.
The Commission’s 2003 communication and reports of non-compliance with the common fisheries policy (CFP) are evidence that much remains to be done.
It is an unfortunate fact, however, that controls on fishing activities under the common fisheries policy are indispensable, as we have learnt from experience.
The success of any legal framework depends on the effectiveness and ease of controls on compliance with the rules it lays down.
It goes without saying that the measures carried out in the framework of these control programmes cost money, and that the necessary funding should accordingly be provided for them.
This would safeguard the Community financial contribution towards the fisheries control programmes at least until the end of 2006, even if the budgetary environment changes.
Obviously nobody within this House would condone a breach of the regulations or rules.
It is appropriate that we are having this debate as a joint debate with the Casaca report, because the whole issue of fishery control measures and what is required is one that not only can deliver more environmentally and economically sustainable fisheries; it can also give certainty to many fishing families, so that they can continue to live their lives in the way that they have enjoyed up to now.
Commissioner, you have stated on a number of occasions that you have a preference for administrative sanctions as against criminal sanctions.
Obviously, there must be some fairness and equity with regard to the way that these fines and penalties are imposed.
Indeed, officials from your own office, Commissioner, recently met representatives of the fisheries committee in the Irish Parliament, as well as meeting members of the Committee on Fisheries here in the European Parliament, to discuss the issue of criminal sanctions and administrative sanctions.
But there is no equity or fairness when a logbook offence in one country leads to a fine of only EUR&#160;96, whereas in another country this could lead to the confiscation of boat, catch and gear.
Since 1999, countries that obey the rules have been honouring Council Regulation (EC) No&#160;1447/1999, which required proportional, effective and dissuasive penalties with regard to serious infringements of the common fisheries policy.
On the serious matter of falsifying records, the UK average fine was EUR&#160;132&#160;000 while in Germany it was a derisory EUR&#160;98 – but EUR&#160;98 more than in the Republic of Ireland which, according to those official Commission figures, had no penalties to declare in 2003, although it belatedly admitted that it had 103&#160;serious infringements!
It is not without significance that only when a red-faced Dublin Government published proposals for penalties to deal with this issue that, at the behest of Irish MEPs and others, this oral question was raised.
Indeed, at present, some Ulster fishermen are awaiting trial in Liverpool Crown Court.
Yet, for years it seems that their southern counterparts have had the benefit of flouting the rules without serious penalty.
You said tonight that you very much favour administrative sanctions.
That would greatly help. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate, as I believe it gives us the chance to raise the difficult degrees of sanctions imposed on the fishing fleets in different Member States of the European Union.
In the United Kingdom, draconian measures have been introduced.
Our fishermen and farmers, and many other industries, have suffered this state of affairs, whilst the situation in other states barely compares.
A very small off-shore fleet operates in Box 7A in the Irish Sea, subject to the draconian rules imposed by the British Government.
At times they fish in those waters and there is great cooperation among the fishermen in those areas.
You talked about a level playing field.
I totally agree with Mr Kindermann that control and enforcement is a cornerstone of the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy.
The establishment of the control agency this year will certainly make an important contribution in this area.
On the points raised by Mrs Attwooll, Mr Crowley and other speakers with regard to the whole question of sanctions, let me say that the main trend, as published in the communication, shows that the total number of serious infringements has varied considerably from one year to another – from 4&#160;180 in 2000 to 9&#160;502 in 2003.
It is difficult to know if this increase in the infringements detected means that the rate of detection of serious infringements is improving or if the number of infringements committed has increased.
One notable element of progress with regard to deterrence is the fact that the average amount of fines imposed has increased from EUR 1&#160;757 in 2002 to EUR 4&#160;664 in 2003 – that is an increase in one year of 165%.
However, the fact that fines imposed in 2003 amount to only 0.004% of the value of landings in 2002, makes us think that fines remain too modest to represent a real deterrent for rule breakers.
Having said that, this is a general statement, and one would have to look into the various subsectors and offences with regard to which these fines have been imposed.
Some conclusions from the previous communications are, firstly, that there are substantial differences between the average penalties applied – as a number of Members have made clear tonight – and that the amount of penalties remains too low to represent an effective deterrent against non-compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
Member States can prosecute infringements through criminal or administrative procedures, provided that these measures are effective and proportionate to the seriousness of the infringements.
Non-criminal sanctions can be swiftly imposed and have been seen to be more effective than more severe penal sanctions.
I regret that the majority of Member States do not use this tool more often.
The Commission has launched a consultation process on improving the quality of data collected and reported and the analysis of this data, in order to compare the situation between Member States.
This catalogue is scheduled to be presented by the Commission in the second half of 2007.
As I have already said, the discrepancies are, therefore, large and our preference is for administrative sanctions, since they are more effective and can be implemented quickly.
In reply to a specific point that was made, I would say that our proposal for the harmonisation of sanctions for serious infringements will be published in 2007.
We hope that this will create a more level playing field and, at the same time, address the issue of proportionality.
However, I will look into this and contact him tomorrow before the vote. &#160;&#160; – The joint debate is closed.
As you are all aware, the Commission procedures have delayed the finalisation of this proposal.
I hope to be able to report to the Committee on Fisheries on possible solutions in the near future.
On this dossier I would like to say that we informed the Seychelles authorities of the delay in the adoption procedure at an early stage.
The first fisheries agreement with the country dates back to 1985 and this is one of the most important tuna agreements in financial terms.
This new Protocol is the first one that fully reflects the new partnership approach.
Both parties subscribe to a political dialogue on fisheries issues and in particular the fisheries sector policy defined by the Government of the Seychelles.
More than one third of the financial contribution has been earmarked in support of the Seychelles fisheries policy.
In line with this desire, the Commission has had a joint committee meeting in April and two technical meetings in July and September 2005 with the Seychelles authorities in order to start the political dialogue on the establishment of a multiannual sector programme to support the development of responsible fisheries in the Seychelles.
This work includes the establishment of annual and multiannual objectives, the distribution of a part of the financial compensation, the aims to be attained and criteria and procedures to be followed, in order to allow for an evaluation of the yearly results obtained in accordance with Article&#160;7 of the Protocol.
In this manner, both parties are firmly committed to responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in the Seychelles waters.
The new Protocol covers a six-year period from 18&#160;January 2005 to 17&#160;January 2011.
As I said before, the Commission informed the Seychelles authorities of this delay at an early stage.
The Seychelles authorities have shown great understanding and have accepted to receive the payment of the financial compensation for the first year of the agreement at a later date.
On Amendment&#160;2, as stated in Article&#160;7 of the Protocol, it is up to the coastal state, in agreement with the Community, to decide on the way the financial contribution will be used in support of its fisheries policy.
Therefore I am unable to accept this amendment.
However, the Commission already complies with the transmission of this kind of information, in line with both the current interinstitutional arrangements and in particular with the framework agreement between the Commission and the European Parliament.
The Commission therefore considers that these amendments are not really necessary, if my information is right.
May I recall the basic Community provisions concerning the mandate of the Commission to negotiate on behalf of the Community.
The Council has authorised the Commission to negotiate fisheries arrangements between the Community and the Seychelles.
There is no need for a new mandate, given that the existing mandate covers these negotiations’ objectives.
On Amendment&#160;6, the new Protocol does not contain any targeted measures but a support to the Seychelles fisheries policy – Article 7 of the Protocol –promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in Seychelles waters.
We fully share the concern to keep the EP informed on the various aspects of the implementation of the Protocol.
However, the Commission already complies with the transmission of such information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangements.
Therefore the Commission considers that this amendment is not really necessary. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, you have already outlined the contents of the partnership agreement and explained to us that it is one of the first – if not the first – to be negotiated by the Commission as part of the new philosophy agreed by the Council in July 2004.
I am sure General Morillon will be pleased when I convey to him your commitment to trying to find a resolution to the problem of timing.
The Committee on Fisheries would like you to think again about your acceptance of amendments.
Please, Commissioner, with regard to our amendments, I would be very grateful if you could see what the Fisheries Committee is trying to achieve in this respect: fuller involvement of the European Parliament, not an attempt to take over the Commission’s negotiating mandate, but to have a real input into what is being decided.
I believe that the Fisheries Agreement with the Seychelles demonstrates clearly that the objectives of this Community policy are in very good health, despite the criticisms from some quarters, and that this kind of protocol is still essential in order to maintain competitiveness and employment for the Community sector, while it is increasingly involved in the promotion of more responsible fisheries systems outside of Community seas.
The activity planned for 40 seiners and 12 long liners will enable the Seychelles to benefit, as has been said, from more than EUR 4 million per year, of which 36% will be intended to support their fisheries sector.
So it is not that this agreement is important in itself, which it is, but also that it has many not just economic, but also geostrategic, implications, because the Seychelles, and specifically the port of Victoria, are an obligatory stop-off point for our fleet operating in this ocean, both for unloading and for docking and provisions.
The first payment of financial compensation – and I believe that this has also been mentioned – should have happened in September and, at that time, the formal consultation of the European Parliament had not even arrived.
Our internal procedure must be carefully reviewed, so that we can identify our deficiencies and put them right, because it is not logical for our fleet to be fishing as a result of the good will of the third country.
The delays only reduce the European Union’s credibility in the eyes of other powers such as, in this case, Japan, which are much quicker to fulfil their obligations. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Court of Auditors recently remarked that 90% of EU activity is open to fraud.
So, we come to the award of fishing rights to the EU fleets in waters around the Seychelles.
The second half of this scam is to declare ‘zero catch’, so there are no EU contributions to the country in question, and deprivation becomes acute.
A good slice of the economy of a third world country is destroyed, all because EU fleets, due to their reckless rape of their own seas, now move on to other targets.
I note that Commissioner Borg disagreed with me in my last speech, saying that the problem was over-fishing, which is precisely what I said in my own comments.
This agreement, as other speakers have said, was due to enter into force on 18 January 2005.
EU fishing vessels have been fishing continuously in the Seychelles' waters since January 2005.
However, the Seychelles Government has not yet received a single euro, as we have heard.
The Council says it is anxious that Parliament should deliver its opinion as soon as possible.
The new protocol was signed by the two parties on 23&#160;September 2004, and yet the Council did not request that Parliament should be consulted until 14&#160;October 2005, more than a year later.
I am well aware that we have to seek 21&#160;different translations of all these protocols, but we have been aware of these shortcomings for a long time.
This situation is intolerable.
I undertake to discuss this with the president of the Committee on Fisheries and with the committee itself, in order to find some solution on a permanent basis, so that the situation can be resolved, hopefully, once and for all, and the Fisheries Committee will have sufficient time to make its necessary evaluation and give its advice on the proposed agreements accordingly.
Concerning Amendment&#160;2, as stated in Article&#160;7 of the Protocol, it is up to the coastal State, in agreement with the Community, to decide on the way the financial contribution will be used in support of its fisheries policy.
On Amendment&#160;3, we fully share the concern to keep the European Parliament informed of the various aspects of the implementation of the Protocol.
The Commission already complies with the transmission of such information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangements.
However, I will look at ways and means to improve this communication and discussion process with the European Parliament.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
