President-in-Office. - (SL) With your help we will certainly succeed more easily.
It concerns the resolution on voluntary youth activities adopted by the Council on 16 November 2007.
President-in-Office. - (SL) The European Union is committed to multilateralism in many forms, including the World Trade Organisation, which in our view is an excellent example of a multilateral organisation.
Under the terms of the negotiation directives adopted by the Council in the spring of 2007, negotiations on free trade agreements were started with the member states of ASEAN and with India and Korea.
I would like to ask about this: what is the Council's view regarding the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur, which has been so long awaited?
The Council prepared these decisions together with the Member States, thereby respecting the important role of the Member States in this area.
President-in-Office. - (SL) No, I do not think that at this moment we are considering a concrete suggestion aimed at protecting the interests of the category of people you are talking about.
In March 2006 the European Council adopted the energy policy for Europe.
The international energy policy is also one of the priority policy areas defined by The European Council in its decisions of March 2007.
I have already mentioned the Energy Community Treaty, and we will also use the existing mechanisms within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy. - (EL) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, please add my own wishes for a successful programming period for the Slovenian Presidency to the many that have already been expressed.
My question is more broadly on energy and that is, firstly, what is the Slovenian position on increasing nuclear inside the borders of Europe?
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you for those supplementary questions.
The EU, the Council and the Presidency do not hold any positions regarding this particular case.
President-in-Office. - (SL) There have been already five conferences in Brussels about the shape of the forces: on 3 November last year, on 1 December last year and, most recently, a few days ago on 11 January this year.
The decision on the starting date for the mission is expected to be adopted at the session of the EU General Affairs and External Relations Council at the end of this month, 28 January 2008.
The Council is aware of the fact that lasting results may be reached only through political solution, and it is therefore emphasizing the importance of the political agreement on consolidation of the democratic process in Chad, signed on 13 August last year.
It took a while, but I think that not only the agreement, but also the agreement regarding the implementation itself, was reached at the right moment.
This does not mean that the European Union is not also capable of independently adopting decisions regarding its own missions of a different nature. - (PL) Mr President, this will be more of an opinion, I think.
I would like to reiterate that, in principle, as in this particular case, it is an issue which is usually resolved at the level of relations between the third country and the EU Member State of which the person is a citizen.
Luckily, in this case it was not necessary and the case was solved between the two countries, which we are happy about. - (DE) President-in-Office of the Council, you have rightly pointed out that bilateral contacts can help in resolving problem cases such as these.
However, it is clear that the European Union gives a framework within which the Member States - and I am going to mention the principle of solidarity again - help each other in this area on the basis of the principle of solidarity.
In addition, the Member States are introducing concrete measures for implementation of the action plan to reduce the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond.
The European Commission amended its communication "Halting the Loss of Biodiversity by 2010 - and Beyond” with the commitment to include the private sector in partnerships for the preservation of biodiversity.
Recently, in November 2007, there was a high-level conference in Lisbon which debated the economy and biodiversity within this framework.
It is the countdown to 2010 that concerns me.
There is plenty of talk but no action in this area, and it is one of the great deceptions we have that we are actually going to show any change or any impact on the ground by 2010.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Ms Doyle, thank you for your added comment.
Mrs McGuinness takes responsibility for this question originally asked by Jim Higgins.
Of course, we would be interested to know what will be the contribution of the Commission to the debate on the review of the cohesion policy, which is one of the important tasks for our Presidency. - (DE) Mr President, even the European Parliament respects the Commission's right of initiative, as the Council has just expressed it.
President-in-Office. - (SL) The Council has not adopted any position on the particular case cited by Ms McGuinness.
In accordance with the Council decisions of 12 December 2005, i.e.
The Slovenian Presidency is very keen on it, very keen on that progress, but it does depend on the country itself and on its success in exercising the measures, as well as the progress of reforms. - (DE) Many thanks for this very good response.
I was also in favour of the Association Agreement during the war in Ljubljana which, thankfully, was brief, and later as rapporteur for Parliament.
Actually, Slovenia has journeyed a long way, as was said by the President of the European Council this morning.
I know it supports the view that we need long-term peace and stability in south-east Europe and the Balkans as a priority, and indeed economic development goes hand-in-hand with it, but in terms of Macedonia reaching the line to open negotiations on accession - the issue of the name apart (important though it is) - how does the Slovenian Presidency consider Macedonia would rate in comparison with other countries in that immediate area in reaching the accession line?
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you very much, Ms Doyle, for your supplementary question.
I would like to repeat that this progress also depends largely on the countries of the region. - (EL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council on his very specific reply and, as a Greek MEP, I should like to say that we have a particular interest in all the Western Balkan States becoming members of the European Union as soon as possible.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you for your comment.
Question No 12 has been withdrawn.
