Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 March 2000.
Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on Tuesday a terrible accident took place in Kitzsteinhorn, near Salzburg.
Madam President, the verbatim report of proceedings for 16 March did not record my speech in full.
Thank you, Mr Galeote Quecedo.
Mr Sturdy, the chairman of our delegation, was unable to attend at that precise time, Madam President, but he has written to you this morning to confirm what I am about to say.
This is regrettable in the extreme, since this was an otherwise excellent visit, and because we wish to maintain the best relations with Canada, after so many difficult years, principally due to conflicts over fishing.
Of course, Mr Berthu.
Madam President, 13 April will see the start of the trial, in Iran, of thirteen Iranian citizens who are of the Jewish religion.
I must ask you to intervene once again, and I also call upon the Commission to intervene, to ensure that human rights are fully observed in the course of this trial, so that thirteen people are not condemned to death for reasons unknown, given that this Parliament has repeatedly declared its opposition to the death penalty.
Madam President, I shall be very brief.
So we are asking that the vote be postponed to the April part-session and that the deadline for putting down motions under Rule 37 of our Rules be re-opened to allow the committee eventually to table a motion on this issue.
Madam President, I should like to speak in support of this motion.
Is there any objection to Mr Watson' s request on behalf of his committee to postpone voting on the resolution on the Echelon system until the April part-session?
The first one as you mentioned, relates to the proposals on the amendment of the directive on general product safety.
The two key objectives of the general product safety directive are, firstly, to ensure a high and consistent level of protection for consumer health and safety throughout Europe and, secondly, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
The report on the main findings will be circulated in parallel to the draft revision of the directive.
However, it does not apply where a specific sector of legislation covers the same aspects under consideration.
We also want to improve the rapid alert system, a system which is operated by the Commission to monitor the information on dangerous products and measures taken.
We now also foresee the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular candidate countries.
We believe that in line with the general policy of the Commission, citizens have the right to know which real dangers they are exposed to and the measures taken.
The limitations to this is, of course, professional secrecy, as defined in Article 287 of the Treaty, but that of course is except when there are overriding public health considerations.
I believe that this draft directive can effectively contribute to our common goal of ensuring a high level of consumer health and safety and I look forward to more detailed discussions with Members of Parliament in future on this issue.
They should be able to be confident in all areas and that a whole raft of instruments seems to have been implemented to that end, particularly the White Paper on consumption and food safety.
Today, in order to give more meaning to all the current thinking on consumer safety and in order to reconcile Europe with civil society, particularly that society which successfully made its views felt in Seattle and elsewhere, expressing its anxieties about food quality and food safety, could the Commission not take the initiative of organising a forum for a large-scale debate between, on the one hand, the responsible parties from the Commission, the representatives of governments and members of parliament, of course, but also the representatives of civil society, non-governmental organisations, consumers' organisations, and professionals involved in the sector, in such a way as to ensure that these debates filter down to the European citizen?
For instance, my service is currently putting the final touches to the framework document on public health, and contained in that document is a reference to the establishment of a public health forum, where issues relating to public health, and by extension the food and consumer affairs you draw attention to, will be able to be discussed.
I have been concerned by the lack of the involvement of the civil society in the issues that you talk about, particularly in relation to trade.
So I can assure you, Mrs Auroi, that I am concerned about these issues.
I take that responsibility seriously and we will be moving along in this way.
I have said on a number of occasions, including in this Parliament, that the primary consideration must be the protection of the public.
In circumstances where there might be a conflict between the protection of consumers, particularly their health, and monetary issues, public health must, of course, take precedence.
They cannot, but in any situation of conflict where you have to choose one or the other, public health must always prevail.
Madam President, Commissioner, I wish to congratulate the Commission on this initiative, which I believe to be extremely important.
You will be aware that our plans, which are set out in the White Paper on food safety, contain a provision relating to the introduction of legislation in respect of a general food law, and there are many other legal provisions contained in the White Paper which are designed to protect food safety, and by inference consumers.
I can assure you, Mr Campos, that the interaction that takes place at Commission level on these issues puts a high premium on food safety.
In those circumstances, the provisions contained in Article 287 must take a back seat.
Let me also say that I fully agree with you that consumer confidence is best enhanced by the provision of full information.
The Commission' s services have worked on a proposal to introduce these tests in BSE monitoring throughout the Community since September last year.
Currently we have three different tests which have been found to give excellent results when used to test animals with clinical signs of disease after their death.
The tests offer new opportunities to test a large number of animals on a routine basis.
The Commission now proposes to replace that programme with a new programme where each Member State tests a representative sample of dead-on-farm and casualty-slaughtered cattle in its territory.
I am also happy to be able to tell Parliament that these particular tests will produce a result within 24 hours.
The proposed decision does not in itself have implications on the Community budget but that is an issue that will be discussed in the special veterinary committee next week.
So the best possible date that I can predict for all this to happen and the best estimate that I can give for a commencement date having regard to all these factors is January 2001.
I am convinced that, with regard to the consumer, we would be taken more seriously by producers if we were also to do away with the slaughter of animals at risk and if we were to have the same legislation throughout the entire Community.
We know that there is a proposal there already and that will now be fast-tracked.
So all these factors must be looked at together.
It is not just one proposal that we are putting forward to you this afternoon as being the only answer to the protection of consumers in respect of the consumption of beef.
Many of you have spoken about the need to put before anything else the protection of consumers, food safety and public health, and in those circumstances the scheme that we have devised for these tests is predicated on the basis that to acquire the most valuable and accurate information it is necessary to carry out the tests throughout the European Union.
I hope that we will get a good response and I believe that from the contacts that we have had with some of the Member States, there is a real apprehension in relation to these issues, not least because of the finding of the one single case in Denmark very recently.
My question to Mr Byrne relates to the recent report of the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin on the incidence of BSE in France.
A large number of French departments - I think about 23 departments - had not apparently been monitoring for BSE in the cattle populations within their departments, although they were departments in which there were a large number of dairy cattle.
The conditions and the controls in the abattoirs were such that one drew the conclusion from the report that it is perfectly possible today, 29 March 2000, that animals with BSE are still entering the food chain in France.
I have to say, in relation to reports from the Food and Veterinary Office, that I have had discussions with them about the reports and we are currently reviewing how the reports are done, how they are written and what information they contain.
We have made a number of proposals and I am satisfied that when these proposals are put into place we will have met the Member States' concerns in relation to this and also, of course, taken account of consumer concerns.
Aeroplane "hushkits The next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the Commission by the following Members: Mr Hatzidakis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on hushkitted aircraft (B5-0018/2000); Mrs Jackson, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the hushkit issue (B5-0020/2000).
Mr President, I look forward with great interest to the Commissioner' s reply to this debate.
The first question one wants to ask is: is The Financial Times accurate this morning in forecasting that the Commissioner is about to answer our questions by saying that only part of the noise regulation will come into force, the part relating to the European Union, on 4 May.
We believe that what the Commissioner is going to say is that the part relating to third countries, which should come into force from 2002, will not come into force and will in fact be suspended.
The Environment Committee is the committee responsible within the European Parliament for the original regulation on aircraft noise and we have watched with some dismay the reluctance of the United States to accept that the European Union is within its rights to insist on bringing the regulation into force by the due date.
I think, however, that the Commissioner may be about to announce to us that light is dawning and that we can see a way forward that will enable both sides to be satisfied and to allow sensible negotiations to continue for a global solution.
The first compromise put forward a little time ago seemed to many in the Parliament to be much too shaky.
What is more, the international agreement of 1977 was never intended to artificially prolong the life span of aircraft due to be phased out, or to transfer aircraft from chapter 2 to chapter 3.
However, it would be better still if the United States and the European Union could conclude firm and reliable agreements on noise standards for aircraft.
The resolution that has now been produced by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy aims to clarify the position of the European Parliament.
Despite our positive attitude, the Americans for their part have shown supreme arrogance especially towards the European Parliament, calling as I said earlier for the regulation to be withdrawn at first and then, as a slight concession, speaking about indefinite suspension.
A time came when it seemed that some progress had been made, though far from anything that could be considered satisfactory, but in the end even that slight progress has vanished in the last few days, since the US has petitioned the ICAO under Article 84 of the Chicago Convention against the European Union concerning the regulation whose purpose, as I said, is to protect the environment.
If good faith prevails, that agreement can become a reality.
And, of course, we believe the US ought to withdraw their petition to the ICAO under Article 84 of the Chicago Convention, because that kind of action blows the spirit of cooperation sky-high.
Mr President, I want to conclude with two respective observations.
The objective of this regulation is very clear: to achieve compliance with what has been agreed within the ICAO, that is to say, that the aircraft landing at our airports genuinely conform to the noise standards of the ICAO.
It is therefore a question of achieving new noise levels as international standards within the ICAO.
Secondly, the Americans must suspend their complaint to the ICAO in accordance with Article 84 and we - this is something we could negotiate - could suspend the part of the regulation which refers to third country airlines; but certainly not in reference to European airlines, since that regulation enters into force on 4 May.
Only if there is in agreement on the other aspects would I come to Parliament to ask for your support for a postponement with regard to third country airlines, for a suspension of the provision of the regulation in this specific respect.
The Council also heard a Commission communication on this subject yesterday, and I believe that it is becoming crucial to ensure that the hushkits issue is incorporated into a broader strategy for building a new Europe in this area.
If you do not mind, Mr President, I would also like to give a very brief account of the conclusions reached by the Council yesterday on this matter, including the issue of hushkits.
It was the Council' s opinion that the measures to be adopted should, at the same time, ensure that a high level of safety is maintained, that there is fair competition, that the transport system works efficiently, and that there is equality of access to transport systems, taking account of the diversity of situations in the Union' s various Member States and regions, and above all, the requirements of economic and social cohesion.
And we are being firm.
The presidency is convinced that we will achieve results and, once again, I would like to state before Parliament that we have complete confidence in the work that the Commissioner is carrying out.
In other words, we were not obstructive but we were firmly united in our willingness to introduce a regulation; under the terms of which, I might add, the United States would, in any case, have two more years in which to complete the phasing-out process.
I also call upon the United States again to take our European legislation seriously.
We must support our Commissioner and honour the legislation that we ourselves have adopted.
If it goes through in September of next year, then we still have enough time to suspend the regulation.
Their future commitment depends on whether or not we are willing to defer.
Ultimately, the US could even have Europe thrown out of this organisation.
The political conclusion reached by my group is that Europe must frame its own policy when it comes to the noise and environmental pollution caused by aircraft, both new and old models.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am happy that we are here together today, after all the discussions over recent months, and can confirm that all three institutions - the two legislative institutions and the Commission as the proposing authority - take the view that the regulation has to enter into force in May of this year.
Once agreement has been reached on global standards in the ICAO working parties, we can start to adopt these global standards in our regulation insofar as it relates to third country aeroplanes for the year 2002.
If, during the course of the legislative procedure, which takes six months or a year, we receive an indication in September that these standards have also been adopted by the general assembly of the ICAO as they stand, we can conclude the legislative procedure well before May 2002.
The delegation for relations with the US is planning, as you probably know, a transatlantic legislators' dialogue using video-conferencing techniques so that we can discuss and understand - and clearly the Americans need to understand - what the powers of this Parliament are, the positive powers and also the negative powers and also the importance of timing in our joint negotiations.
This is a critical case because it is about how we face hard decisions about how to begin to make a deeply unsustainable industry a little less damaging.
It is about how we put into practice the Treaty of Amsterdam on integrating sustainability concerns into all policy areas, even the very difficult ones.
I wonder if we can use this conflict and these negotiations with the US to enter into a broader discussion about a proactive global environmental policy on air transport more generally.
We need to be looking towards a new policy architecture to deal with all these questions.
It was voted through the last Parliament without any debate.
It offends against the fundamental requirement for reasons under Article 253 of the Treaty in that there is no explanation at all in the regulation for the use of the bypass ratio of an aircraft engine as a criteria when internationally approved noise and emissions standards certification for aircraft engines already exist.
This legislation rolls out the proposal made by Airbus at an Airbus-hosted meeting in Toulouse on 29 and 30 September and 1 October 1997, effectively commercially sponsored legislation.
Yes, Mr President, noise pollution affects 20% of our population, and 0.01% comes from aircraft.
I fully support the objective of the regulation and we must agree on a timetable to implement noise standards, but it must be one based on objective performance criteria and not design criteria.
The integrity of this House demands detailed answers to questions which raise major doubts about aspects of a regulation upon which the motion before us is based and on which we will be asked to vote tomorrow.
Secondly, Mrs de Palacio, Mr Coelho, in my view, the postponement of one year served no useful purpose, for the simple reason that American interests - and when I say American interests I mean the interests of one section of American industry - are clearly interests which run counter to the general improvement of standards, even more so in the case of 'hushkits' .
There are only two things that will cause them to shift position: pressure from the European Union or pressure from their own public opinion for, unfortunately, the United States is a vast territory and the environs of airports are less badly affected than the territories overflown in Europe, which is, by virtue of its geographical layout, affected more seriously by such constraints.
We might at best revise them, but we could do so only in one instance: if an international agreement makes it possible to improve the situation and to draw up an overall framework agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you know, I live in Bilbao, a city in the Basque country which, like other European cities, is very densely populated.
On 29 April 1999, the European Union adopted a Council regulation with a view to controlling and reducing the noise produced by subsonic aircraft engines, limiting in due course the use of silencers, which do not resolve the problem completely, and helping airlines to update their fleets with new generation aircraft which create less pollution.
Only under these circumstances could we accept a delay in our regulation for third countries.
We know there are better long-term solutions because we know our regulation applies only in Europe.
Your objective, Madame Palacio, is to get that world-wide effect.
Suggest that to them, Madame Palacio.
There are four points I would like to bring out in this debate.
Firstly, there must be a concerted, world-wide effort to produce more stringent noise standards for aircraft.
Thirdly, our own Regulation 925/1999 on hushkitted aircraft must come into force in undiminished form.
They must withdraw the complaint they filed under Article 84 of the ICAO.
The regulation on silencers means nothing more than implementing the noise levels of 1978 and we are in the year 2000.
I wish to make it very clear that the regulation on silencers comes into force on 4 May for European airline companies.
The regulation comes into force for European airlines on 4 May.
Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, if we could reach an agreement with the United States to act jointly, in order to obtain lower levels and greater requirements in terms of aircraft noise emission, I would be prepared to make a proposal to this Parliament and the Council to suspend the provisions of the current regulation with regard to third countries.
Mediterranean policy The next item is the joint debate on twelve oral questions on Mediterranean policy by the following Members: Napoletano, Sakellariou, Obiols i Germà, Naïr, on behalf of the PSE Group, to the Council (B5-0015/2000); Napoletano, Sakellariou, Obiols i Germà, Naïr, on behalf of the PSE Group, to the Commission (B5-0016/2000); Rutelli, on behalf of the ELDR Group, to the Council (B5-0202/2000); Rutelli, on behalf of the ELDR Group, to the Commission (B5-0203/2000); Morgantini, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, to the Council (B5-0204/2000); Morgantini, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, to the Commission (B5-0205/2000); Queiró, Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, to the Council (B5-0210/2000); Queiró, Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, to the Commission (B5-0211/2000); Fiori, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, to the Council (B5-0212/2000); Fiori, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, to the Commission (B5-0213/2000); Bautista Ojeda, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, to the Council (B5-0214/2000); Bautista Ojeda, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, to the Commission (B5-0215/2000).
Mr President, great is the frustration and disappointment of the European Parliament, almost five years on from the Barcelona Declaration, at the lack of progress made in the implementation of the programmes and objectives it set out.
Finally, Mr President, may I say that the Union' s Mediterranean policy could become one of the common strategies laid down by Article 12 of the Treaty on European Union regarding foreign and security policy, and that we could also promote the political dimension of the issue through parliamentary debate.
The second point is more specific.
Our feeling, which will become apparent from the resolution which is to be put to the vote, is that complete priority has been given to a procedure for the development of a free trade area, shifting the emphasis from other policies which, in our opinion, should go hand in hand with the objective of building a free trade area, which we fully support.
And yet two of the fundamental causes of the breakdown in the debate have now been eliminated: a new Commission is installed in Brussels which numbers the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean area of peace and stability among one of its priorities, and peace negotiations between Israel, Palestine, Syria and the Lebanon are once again in progress.
At the same time, however, I would stress that the bilateral approach hitherto adopted by the Commission does not seem adequate to meet the numerous challenges presented by the Mediterranean.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the need to create a Euro-Mediterranean area of peace, economic justice, citizenship and stability is common to both sides of the Mediterranean.
The Mediterranean is still the greatest benchmark of Europe' s capacity to exert influence beyond its borders.
The Mediterranean policy is set in a context of wide-ranging interests and latent tensions, and it therefore has to include various different elements such as the development of peace-keeping initiatives - now that the Middle East peace process has been relaunched - and we are grateful for the way that the Pope' s visit to the Holy Land is improving relations between the different religions, leading them towards mutual understanding and support, and the creation of partnership projects involving Northern and Southern Europe, for the very reason that the objective of transforming the Mediterranean into an area of dialogue, tolerance and cooperation that guarantees peace and stability cannot be achieved without firm political will and sustainable, balanced social development.
The need for a different, more efficient Mediterranean policy for the developing countries in the Basin cannot be disregarded.
The process defined in Barcelona in 1995 for building an effective Euro-Mediterranean Partnership is still ongoing, despite the intention expressed by the European Union governments to include the Mediterranean policy among their priorities, an intention fully supported by our group.
The forging of multilateral relations has not led to sustained expansion, and the cultural, social and human partnership is highly inadequate.
Our group has faith in the Mediterranean, and wants the European Union to accord to it the strategic, economic and political importance it once had.
This is no need to remind you of the important common interests we have with those countries in terms of agriculture and fishing, nor the serious shared problems relating to immigration between Andalusia and Morocco, which create added difficulties.
European regions such as Andalusia, which are very close to the countries of the Maghreb, share more interests and problems with those countries than they do with other Member States of the Union, and far more than they do with the future candidates for enlargement.
In fact, this love-hate situation between certain Community regions and the Maghreb creates unnecessary tensions, both economic and social, which we must resolve by putting all our powers of negotiation on the table and by using all the existing mechanisms, or new ones which should be created, in order to relaunch Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
Another purpose is to prepare for the Barcelona IV formal meeting of Foreign Ministers which will be held in Marseilles in November under the Barcelona Process.
We think that it is important to undertake this assessment not just to be consistent in following up what we have already done in Stuttgart, but also in order to analyse new priorities in some sectors where cooperation needs to be developed further.
As to establishing a free trade area, which is another area in the process of Mediterranean relations, we feel that this should not be seen as an end in itself, but as a means of improving our citizens' living conditions and of increasing their level of income.
The establishment of this area will certainly give the Mediterranean countries an opportunity, by means of a process of free trade, to be part of a more interdependent world and, in this way, not to remain on the fringes of this global trend towards greater prosperity and well-being.
With regard to the MEDA programme, which is an important instrument in this context, the total sum available to the MEDA II programme for the period 2000-2006 has not yet been announced and the Commission has stated that it will soon announce proposals for distributing budget heading IV for external relations, which includes the MEDA programme.
The Council is looking at the proposal submitted by the Commission at the end of last year to simplify and improve the MEDA regulation procedures, in response to a request from our Mediterranean partners.
The MEDA programme also funds activities in the areas of education and professional training, currently to the tune of around EUR 1 billion per annum.
Under the Barcelona Process, a meeting of employment and professional training experts will be held on 31 March and 1 April, precisely in order to look at how the southern Mediterranean countries can be helped to define national policies for employment and professional training and to exchange information and experience.
With regard to the role of the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy, which was mentioned in one of the questions to Council, I would like to confirm that the European Union attaches the greatest importance to promoting a coherent and comprehensive policy for the Mediterranean region.
We intend to play an active role in this area, not only in the context of the Barcelona Process, but also with regard to the Middle East peace process itself.
The High Representative is particularly committed to issues of this kind and took part in the last meeting, held in Moscow, of the Ministerial Steering Committee, which gave fresh impetus to the multilateral track of the Middle East peace process, in which the European Union is involved.
Other specific issues on which the EU intends to continue working are, as you will be aware, the drafting of a common strategy on the Mediterranean, as was decided at the Cologne European Council and reiterated at the Helsinki European Council.
This is more of a horizontal, multilateral common strategy, and involves a set of approaches which, in our opinion, must attempt to go further than the Barcelona Process itself.
By this I mean that if the common strategy does nothing more than repeat what is in the Barcelona Process, we will gain no added value in terms of a coherent EU policy towards our southern partners.
The European Union is also working on an issues paper on the future of the region so as to be prepared to play its full role when peace is achieved through the Middle East peace process.
With regard to the Euro-Mediterranean Charter for Peace and Stability, which has attracted the attention of this Parliament and which is occupying the Council, following the remit given by the Stuttgart Ministerial Conference in April 1999, a schedule for work on this issue was drawn up, and meetings on this subject were held in November, December and March.
In response to another question, the Council does not currently envisage a multilateral treaty between third countries.
While I am on this subject, Mr President, I would like to say that many of the complaints made about how the Mediterranean process is working are very often mirrored in the way north-south relations function.
With regard to the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership, the French presidency intends to pursue the work that was started in The Hague in March 1999 on migration and the exchange of peoples, by organising a new meeting of high-level officials in the second half of this year.
Regarding the target date of 2010 and the question we have been asked about setting up a committee to look into what action may be necessary, we do not currently intend to set up any committee, but it is our firm intention to pursue and to conclude negotiations for association agreements between the EU and the Mediterranean countries as quickly as possible.
The association agreement with Morocco recently came into force, on 1 March, and the presidency is certain, given the progress made in ratification at national level, that the agreement with Israel can also come into force in June.
The countries of the southern Mediterranean have to understand that we must be in a position to guarantee equal treatment and that delaying tactics cannot be used to gain advantages in agreements signed at a later stage.
In particular, they must understand that earlier agreements cannot be reviewed in the light of benefits subsequently acquired in later agreements.
The European Union has made efforts to show the southern Mediterranean countries that establishing the Single Market has been a positive experience.
With regard to the Middle East peace process, the question Parliament has asked raises a fundamental issue.
The visibility of the Middle East peace process is not an end in itself for the European Union.
We have been steadfast in our support for this peace process not only through considerable economic assistance - and I would like to make it clear that this assistance is unparalleled in the history of the Middle East - but also through the political initiatives themselves and their constructive support for the efforts of the United States and other key participants.
We will do what we can to assist the peace process, because it is peace that we are interested in and not our own visibility in this peace process.
In this area, I would like to make clear our commitment to the Palestinian track, through our support for implementing agreements which have been concluded and by offering to contribute to discussions on that country' s permanent status.
Together with the United States and Russia, who are co-sponsors of the multilateral track in the process which was started in 1991 in Madrid, the Council has been working towards normal recommencement of the activities under this track, after an interruption of three years.
In their capacity as joint chairs of the Working Group on Economic and Regional Development, which has 53 members within the region and outside it, the Council and the Commission will bring this group together at a meeting on 8 to 11 May.
The European Union will also host the next meeting of the steering group in July.
At its meeting of 24 January, the Council asked the High Representative, assisted by the Special Envoy and the Commission, to look more closely at issues in which the European Union is specifically committed to playing a major role, such as issues concerning security, water and refugees.
Cooperation with civil society, which is one of the points raised in another question, is still an essential element in the development of the third chapter of the Barcelona Process.
A whole range of activities has already been developed, such as the establishment of a youth forum, and I hope that at the Lisbon Summit we can look at which areas these activities under the third chapter can be focused on, in order to enable civil society to play an increasingly important role in this area.
Regarding the Arab Maghreb Union, the Council is convinced of the importance and the need for cooperation in a region of 80 million inhabitants sharing the same language and religion.
The Council has confirmed its desire to see Libya participate fully in the Barcelona Process and hopes that it will be able to give its full and unreserved acceptance of the Barcelona acquis.
The Ambassadorial Troika has, in fact, just visited Libya, on 26 and 27 March to be precise, and it was made quite clear to Libya that its acceptance of the Barcelona acquis would mean that it would have to negotiate an association agreement with the European Union in order to be able to join the Euro-Mediterranean Free Trade Area to be established by 2010.
The issue of negotiating an agreement of this kind with Libya is not currently on the agenda, but the Council will discuss this if and when it becomes an issue.
Under the Portuguese proposal presented under the Mediterranean Forum and subsequently followed up through the Barcelona Process, a conference on investment throughout the Mediterranean area was held in Lisbon on 28 February to 11 March at which there was substantial representation from the private sector.
The participants highlighted the low and inadequate flow of investment to the Mediterranean region in comparison with its potential, and in comparison with other parts of the world.
The Council confirms that it is willing to contribute to establishing a climate of trust between all parties in order to find a solution to the problem of the Western Sahara based on human rights and on respect for democratic principles.
I have, of course, been answering a very long series of questions, and if I did not give the various questions the attention they deserve, certain honourable Members might naturally start thinking that the presidency was not paying due attention to their questions.
We have gone into great detail on some of the different aspects of current Mediterranean policy, even though this subject deserves even more detailed treatment in my opinion.
Although there are grounds for disappointment in view of the expectations raised by the launching of the Barcelona Process in November 1995 - and I am perhaps one of the few people here to have been present at that launch, at the signing of that agreement - this is largely attributable to the political circumstances in the Middle East, which were favourable in November 1995 but which have deteriorated considerably since then with the impasse that has arisen in the peace process.
Nevertheless, we should not forget that despite these problems, the Barcelona Process has been able to continue and I think that it is important to highlight the fact that this is the only body that has managed to get the Mediterranean Arab countries, Israel and the European Union round the same table, which, in my opinion, in itself represents a considerable step forward.
The economic objective of the partnership is to create an area of shared prosperity through the progressive establishment of free trade accompanied by substantial EU financial support for economic transition and to help the partners confront the social and economic challenges which this implies.
The implementation of MEDA has been subject to criticism, some justified, some not.
The Commission has put forward a proposal to amend the MEDA regulation to ensure a more strategic approach to programming, better coordination with other donors, including the Member States, and streamlining of procedures.
The proposal is still under discussion in the Council, and I fear, that far from supporting these objectives, the Council may be moving in the direction of making the procedure even heavier.
We shall use MEDA to support the partners' efforts in this respect.
Regional cooperation to ensure that the region presents a unified market is also vital.
I want to encourage the harmonisation of single market measures among all partners - an action programme should be agreed later this year - and to offer diagonal cumulation of origin to those partners who agree free trade among themselves.
Investments in these areas are primarily supported by loans from the European Investment Bank as well as other donors.
Support for civil society is key to the development of the human dimension of the partnership.
Mr President, at this stage it is obvious that this parliamentary initiative is born out of a general sense of concern in this House about the slowness, and even paralysis in some areas, in implementing agreements reached within the framework of the Barcelona Conference, almost four years ago.
From this point of view, Parliament is justified in repeating its request that the European Union make a more decisive contribution to the peace process in the Middle East, especially given that the parties in the conflict requested this explicitly during the recent visit to the region by the President of the European Parliament.
We are convinced that, in order to be successful, a European Union common foreign and security policy must be based on the concept of balance in order to respond to the sensibilities of all the Member States and, therefore, of all the citizens.
Mr President, in November, five years will have passed since the signing of the Barcelona Declaration.
In this respect, this debate and the motions for resolutions tabled by the Groups in this Parliament are very appropriate initiatives.
The summits and meetings have always been held with the presence of all the countries involved, including Syria, Lebanon and Israel.
However, these results cannot lead us to ignore the delays and shortcomings which, in part, have frustrated the hopes and expectations raised at the first Euro-Mediterranean Conference of November 1995.
It will depend to a large extent on the policy of the European Union as to whether this region becomes a 'sun belt' with a new economic and social balance in a context of security, development and peace, or a 'slum belt' where the norm will be an increasing imbalance between north and south, galloping poverty in the south and the progressive emergence - forgive the repetition - of every type of emergency: violence, instability, terrorism and uncontrollable migratory pressures.
Secondly, I believe that, as a result of this lack of political direction, the economic and financial dimension has experienced obstacles and delays.
In this respect, we should point out the difficulties involved in launching the MEDA programmes, the excesses of centralisation, the heterogeneous nature of aid criteria, the lack of joint reflection on the possibility of a common Mediterranean agricultural policy and, thirdly, and as a consequence the tiny amount of direct investment in the south: just 2% of the total of the European Union' s direct foreign investments.
In conclusion, a new phase is necessary, with the Portuguese and French presidencies, a brand new start for Euro-Mediterranean policy, which could promote a 'virtuous' circle encompassing the objectives which were correctly drawn up at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona in November 1995.
Thank you very much, Mr Obiols.
Mr President, the Council and the Commission should take good note of Parliament' s practically unanimous position in favour of the relaunch of the Union' s Mediterranean policy, as was established at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona in 1995, under the Spanish presidency, and whose characteristics have already been highlighted here.
On the other hand, we know that certain obstacles, basically political ones, have hindered its correct application.
I would simply like to remind you that, within a few years, the population in the south of the Mediterranean will be greater than that of the north, but that practically all the wealth will be in the north rather than the south.
If the European Union does not act quickly to redress the balance of this situation, both from a demographic point of view and from a social, economic and political point of view, we will be creating an explosive situation for future generations to deal with.
It is therefore a political priority to show political leadership, obviously accompanied by economic cooperation in order to improve the expectations of these populations and bring prosperity and stability to the whole of the Mediterranean, because the prosperity and stability of the European Union also depends on this.
I am very pleased to see that the joint resolution adopts the suggestion we made to ask the Commission and the Council to publish an annual report on the situation regarding human rights and the rule of law in the countries of the Mediterranean.
We should therefore tell those countries where human rights are not observed that bilateral relations may be forced backwards, and we should tell the countries where there is real progress, such as in Morocco or elsewhere, that bilateral relations may go forwards.
The situation of the rule of law and human rights in this country is scandalous.
I am bringing up these subjects because I believe we must not cease to remind the countries of the Mediterranean of their responsibilities as regards the rule of law and human rights.
It is not enough to achieve good results in agriculture or anything else.
Respect for human rights must take precedence in our policy, and that is not the case at present.
First of all, the objective of a policy of this type must be to tackle the blatant disparities between the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean, which keep the peoples of the south in an explosive economic and social situation.
The Euro-Mediterranean process thus calls for a pooling of resources which should be advantageous to all concerned in moving towards a common area of prosperity, which was the objective set in Barcelona.
I should finally like to say that, besides working towards peace in the Middle East, which the European Union must continue to strive for, I am just as keen to seeing Europe play a much more active part in ensuring that the referendum on self-determination in the Western Sahara, which is under serious threat, is held in the conditions stipulated under UN authority.
Because of the complementarity that actually exists between the interests of the two continents of Europe and Africa, this vast Euro-African entity which necessarily revolves around the Mediterranean, our Mediterranean policy is invested with an importance, and I might say a seriousness, which unfortunately finds little reflection in the programmes carried out to date by the European institutions and the fact that, as in the case of MEDA, three quarters of the programmes adopted are still not applied.
This would mean, for example, accepting countries such as Morocco, Tunisia or Algeria into the Union as Member States in their own right.
Pessimism, too, because our transatlantic partner, the United States of America, has fully understood that there is no better way to subject Europe to its domination than by cutting the productive links Europe may establish with its neighbours around the Mediterranean and is striving to erect a vague but effective wall between the two sides of the Mediterranean.
All in all, on this matter, as on other matters, it is only the nations that can attempt to take up this great challenge, primarily France, which is still the leading power on the Mediterranean coastline, by means of its Arab policy and its policy of establishing links throughout the French-speaking world.
I join them in hoping that structural improvements are taking place in the regions concerned.
It will also lead to a more balanced Mediterranean policy on the part of the EU.
The concept of partnership implies the articulation not just of European but also of Mediterranean thoughts on political and economic cooperation.
We also need to give the management and implementation of the MEDA programme our attention.
I think that now we must all do everything we can to prove to the people in all the Mediterranean countries that we recognise them as equal partners and offer them assistance, both in order to restore their trust in us as well as to solve their economic and social problems.
All this helps to shape the development of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership and give it direction.
We must contribute to the development of a favourable climate for private investment, with technical assistance support which provides the same kind of support and aid for these third countries as that supplied to the CEE countries, the possibility of an interregional and transnational cooperation programme aimed at achieving complementarity and integration between the countries of the Mediterranean Basin through coordination between the MEDA and INTERREG programmes, and the possibility of a new generation of programmes to remedy the current fragmentation and inefficiency of a host of Community programmes for the Southern Mediterranean, which, at a rough count, already involve over seventeen different Directorates of the Commission and countless microprojects which, in all probability, do not fulfil this purpose.
Mr President, I believe that this debate is appropriate at the end of the five-year period for which MEDA was programmed, but I also believe that we are going to have time to discuss this new regulation, which at the moment is being debated in this House.
I hope that this Parliament will support it.
In the few seconds allocated to me, I will simply refer to two aspects which I believe should be dealt with urgently in relation to the MEDA programmes.
It seems essential to me, since we want an area of free trade and prosperity, and since we also want to push decisively for democratisation in this area in the southern Mediterranean, that we support the men and women who are trying to work in this field.
I believe furthermore that the Commission must have sufficient human and material resources to do so.
The second issue which concerns me is the inclusion of immigration in the regulation.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is a good day to raise a series of Euro-Mediterranean considerations, since a series of cultural, social, religious and political events are taking place which cannot pass unnoticed by those of us, looking on from Europe, who wish the best for the countries bordering the Mediterranean which furthermore, throughout history, have lived alongside certain European countries.
In general, we have seen a common desire on the part of these countries to associate themselves with their neighbours in the north who form part of the European Union, since they see us as their sole hope of solving the problems they are facing on a day-to-day basis.
Let me draw the attention of our fellow Members to these reports which are currently being discussed in committee and which are to be presented before the House in June.
At this juncture, I should like to highlight two important points: firstly, MEDA is a good programme, a young programme, which has to date suffered from inefficiencies in its implementation.
There is also the definition of a common area of peace and stability, and the concern for rapprochement of peoples by means of a social and cultural partnership.
We therefore request that the Council and the Commission publish a report annually, or every two years, on human rights in the countries participating in the Barcelona Process, which could be used as a basis for the implementation of cooperative operations between the European Union and third countries.
Tunisia, which Daniel Cohn-Bendit has just mentioned, has alone received 10% of the MEDA appropriations, almost all of which have been paid.
In the minute I have, let me say that the European Union' s Mediterranean policy lacks strategy, and it lacks a timetable and clear objectives in contrast, if you will, to its policy on Eastern Europe.
The third point is that in my opinion the European Union has no autonomy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I feel that progress in the Middle East peace process is crucial to the development of the Euro-Mediterranean policy, and that this issue is central to the resolution we are debating today.
However, we must ponder the European Union' s role in furthering the peace process.
I therefore support all the points of this report which highlight the need for economic interventions that bolster the development of programmes and the development of private investment and boost the presence of private operators from the European Union in the territories which border Israel.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union' s professed determination to have an ambitious Mediterranean policy is not a new one, at least in terms of the speeches made and the declarations of intent, and our discussions this evening only confirm this.
From Lisbon in 1992 to Cannes in 1995, and especially in Barcelona that same year, there have always been requests for a strong Euro-Mediterranean Partnership to be established.
The European Union and twelve Mediterranean countries were consequently pleased to adopt the famous Barcelona Declaration in 1995.
This declaration had particularly great ambitions in economic and financial, political and security, social, cultural and human terms.
As others have said before me, however, our partners have felt even more disappointed since this date: with very few association agreements and no agreements actually implemented yet, considerable amounts of European appropriations anticipated, but fewer allocated and still less actually paid, as all our partners keep telling us time and again.
The results of all this are disastrous: the disillusionment of our partners, inadequate economic development, illegal immigration into Europe and a general upturn in fundamentalism.
It is therefore necessary, as everyone this evening has said, to relaunch the Barcelona Process, to simplify its administrative procedures, to agree to open our European markets further and to cancel debts, all this in return for the necessary efforts of our partners in matters of human rights, and all this in the context of an overall Mediterranean vision which will have to ensure balance and peace between all the areas which, together, form the Euro-Mediterranean area.
As a Socialist, I therefore support the substance of the proposals included in our joint resolution.
The Holy Father shows us that the religious aspect of the conflicts cannot be disregarded, and that dialogue between religions is just as much a factor in stability as political dialogue.
Firstly, with regard to regional cooperation - and the presidency has just answered this in part - the Union bases its Mediterranean policy on the Barcelona Process.
It is reasonable to think that cooperation between the Mediterranean States should be much stronger.
The second question concerns the role of the European Parliament, and it must be noted that, at present, it is too limited.
It would be necessary either to reconcile the European Parliament with the Forum, along the lines of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, or to organise the more active and regular participation of the European Parliament in ministerial meetings.
We now have an association agreement with Morocco, in force since 2 March, which makes that country a privileged partner.
However, there can be no close cooperation with Morocco without dealing with an activity - fishing - on which the economies of many European regions depend.
I would like to mention the fisheries agreement between the European Community and Morocco, which expired on 30 November last year.
Not to renew that agreement would be a backwards step in our Mediterranean policy, because if that policy is to be more than empty rhetoric, we must make progress in specific cases.
There are fears about enlargement and there is a feeling that the balance is more in favour of the north and the east and less in favour of the south.
European Union actions are still very diffuse and complex in this area.
The Barcelona Conference corresponds more to political will than to a genuine strategy aimed at creating a real Euro-Mediterranean area, where economics play an important part, but only one part, in a permanent dialogue and political cooperation in the social and cultural areas and also in the defence of mutual interests in order to guarantee the peace and stability which we all wish to see in this region.
Therefore, although this humble MEP does not represent a multinational lobby, he asks that the time allocated to his group be respected.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I read the documents we are discussing today with interest and I noticed that Parliament' s request affects a great many sectors, maybe even too many.
Now, in my opinion, when you ask for everything - which it is always a good idea to do, just in case - the results are often unspectacular.
It is also important to give new impetus to the MEDA programmes and at the same time to strengthen programmes such as MEDA-Democracy, Euromed-Audiovisual, and sub-regional training programmes for journalists.
I think that an important and catalytic role in ensuring the successful outcome of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership must be played by the Mediterranean islands, such as Malta, Cyprus and Crete, as the middle ground between the two sides of the Mediterranean.
The debate is closed.
My report, Mr President, on the one hand reflects the critical feeling of all the groups with regard to aspects of form and substance in the presentation and preparation of the plans.
We have not been able to examine each one of them individually and we have had to limit ourselves to very general considerations and, on this basis, make proposals which I hope will be taken into account by the Commission and the Council for these and for future action plans.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the very fact that these action plans are to be implemented is positive in itself.
It is also positive that we have combined action plans in the fields of foreign policy, cooperation and development and in adopting measures to regulate migratory flows.
Our basic concern relates to the possible effectiveness of the actions planned for countries such as Afghanistan, Somalia or Iraq, where political instability is combined with constant violations of the most basic human rights.
Quite different is the case of Morocco, or even Albania or Sri Lanka, where there is a greater likelihood of multi-sectoral cooperation, and there are countries with privileged situations such as Morocco, where we have just implemented an association agreement.
We cannot criminalise immigration, whether it is for economic or political reasons.
It should be understood that it is crucial to implement the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere Summit on the 'communitisation' of asylum policy and the fair and humanitarian treatment of refugees and immigrants.
As well as economic immigration and cooperation with countries of origin, we should deal with the question of labour market legislation in the Member States themselves, the social integration of immigrants and the fight against the mafia-types involved in the trafficking in human beings.
He has already emphasised, and rightly so, that although migration and asylum are closely related issues, they are nevertheless substantially different and require different responses from the European Union, although it should be borne in mind and recognised that in both cases there are advantages in applying a cross-pillar and global approach.
We know that increasing numbers of people are seeking better opportunities or protection through migration, in order to escape war, persecution, poverty, unemployment or violations of their human rights.
We know that there is an increase in illegal migratory movement, for the most part controlled by criminal networks that often create situations involving exploitation and blatant violation of human rights.
We obviously support a global approach including support for democratisation and promotion of the rule of law, support for the prevention of conflicts and for reconciliation, respect for human rights and the development within countries and regions of origin and of transit of the fight against poverty, by improving living conditions and by creating greater opportunities for employment.
Information campaigns must be undertaken in close cooperation with the countries of origin and of transit, publicising the real opportunities for legal emigration, in an attempt to reduce or eliminate the problem at its source.
In short, we agree with a common European policy on asylum and immigration based on four pillars: partnership with the countries of origin, a common European asylum system, fair treatment of immigrants from third countries and more efficient management of migratory flows.
Mr President, I would like firstly to express, on behalf of my group, our unease at this Council proposal at a time when, within the Union, we are working - and this is shown in the initiatives which the Commission has taken and is taking - on the communitisation of what we have called the 'Third Pillar' and on the development of an immigration and reception policy for citizens from third countries.
On the one hand, what they say seems reasonable; it seems reasonable to establish bilateral policies between the European Union and some of the countries in which the problem of the exodus of migrants and refugees is greatest; this seems useful.
This is the case with Morocco, for example, with whom we must establish a serious and significant bilateral relationship in order to ensure that the immigration originating from that country remains within the law.
This may also be the case with the Balkan countries, where it is clear who our partners are.
On the other hand, however, there are countries on this list whose governments do not even deserve to be described as such, and countries with which I do not think we should speak, such as Afghanistan.
We have come to tell you to respect human rights because you are sending us too many refugees.' This would be absolutely incredible or, at least, very naive.
Furthermore, it seems to me that broaching this issue with these countries is difficult and dangerous.
Therefore, since we cannot adopt a cross-pillar approach - that is to say, between the Third and the First Pillar - taking the shortest route, I believe that the Council should once again consult this Parliament on each and every action plan which is to be set up, in accordance with the provisions of the First Pillar.
It is difficult to see how the idea of codevelopment and the idea of working with these countries in order to tackle immigration at source can be compatible with the idea of taking away funds earmarked for cooperation in development, in order to guard external borders.
Finally, the development of action plans is on the 'scoreboard' .
I would like too to pay tribute to the work that the Commission has done in this area.
We face a number of challenges in a world where the drive for emigration and the drive for immigration into Europe is still substantial.
Clearly, we face a situation where there are push factors in countries of origin and pull factors in our own countries.
This report sets out a number of proposals for action which are, in my view, to be welcomed.
Mr President, unfortunately the action plans of the High Level Working Group on Asylum and Migration hardly do justice to the task in hand.
No one would deny that this is an area where countries can gain from mutual collaboration but, of course, there is nothing new about cooperation among our home countries in the asylum field.
Since long before the signing of the Treaty of Rome, the Member States of the Union have been bound together by a complex web of agreements covering the right of asylum, the treatment of refugees, the principle of non-refoulement and much else.
In my own constituency of South-east England the local police and immigration services long enjoyed excellent relations with their French and Belgian counterparts.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report highlights the many errors and omissions which the action plans contain.
Another error is that questions relating to asylum and those relating to emigration have been dealt with in the same way.
With some countries Europe is signing agreements which include readmission clauses authorising the deportation of third country nationals without the political, economic and social situation of the individual or the country being taken into account.
The best solution to reduce the flow of migration is to support development in these countries and support the welfare of these peoples.
In conclusion, would it not be more urgent to harmonise our asylum and migration policies and to establish a genuine Community policy on the subject?
I will speak only about Sri Lanka, a country I have visited, and a country many of whose citizens have sought refuge in London and other parts of the European Union.
The only solution must be a brokered peace.
My colleague, Anna Terrón, has said that this report is naïve.
I feel that the report skirts around the real issue and is a diversion from the debate that we ought to be having on Sri Lanka and the other countries.
The report says that there is no end to the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka.
So when the report says, Mr President, that we should look for ways to find a political solution to this conflict, I agree.
Nothing else will solve the problems or lessen the human rights abuses.
Therefore, in view of the security issue and the problem of migration, which has its roots in poor countries which are beset with problems, where individuals, groups and families need to find not only a means for self-expression but also a completely different, secure environment, I feel that it is essential for Community policy to be comprehensive. - (PT) Mr President, the action plans under way in the Council' s High-Level Working Group are, as we all know, an unreliable instrument for jointly tackling a problem which, for some, is merely one of security and for others is merely one of integration, and it is usually impossible to tell where the line between the right to asylum ends and the right to economic survival begins.
The action plans that Tampere accepted and stated should continue, in spite of their inability to cope with the complexity of the problem, could nevertheless be improved until the European Union can equip itself with an asylum and immigration policy of its own.
I understand that the Parliament is taking a cautious approach to these action plans and the Commission would like to follow the same line.
On the one hand, the Commission is pleased to see that in broad terms the approach of the Council in developing these action plans is very much in line with the approach advocated by the Commission in its communication on migration of 1994 that enjoyed broad support in this Parliament.
Implementing these plans will need, as has already been stressed by several Members of the House, a combination of very different policies: political cooperation, human rights, rule of law and democracy, commercial, social and development policies, economic assistance need to be fitted together with measures aiming at better management of migration flowing from these countries and regions.
The partnership with the third countries concerned will be always a key element for the success of such a policy with a view to promoting co-development.
I would therefore support your view that we will need to initiate a political dialogue on the implementation of the action plan on an agreed basis of mutual benefit both for Member States of the Union and for the third countries.
We have to recognise that this political dialogue will have to take into account the very different political situation in each of the five countries.
Therefore, I would like to emphasise the important role that non-governmental organisations will have in the implementation of these action plans.
I would very much agree with your observation that the European Union should adopt a long-term structural policy to tackle the causes of migration and I therefore agree that the deadlines set in the action plans are rather optimistic.
The action plans, however, can be considered as a first step in creating an external policy on migration of the European Union and should therefore be given a chance.
Implementation will require close cooperation between the Council and its competent bodies, the Commission and Member States in accordance with their respective responsibilities as defined in the treaty.
The important role Member States have to play was, by the way, acknowledged at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of last Monday, 27 March.
The presidency has called on the Member States to turn their political commitments into real activities, a request that the Commission has supported.
The Commission is, of course, ready to play the active role it is expected to play, especially in areas such as development and economic assistance, human rights, good governance and institution building.
Let me assure you anyway that the Commission will take its own responsibilities in the development of a common internal European Union immigration and asylum policy as foreseen in the conclusions of Tampere.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we face an enormous challenge with the budget for the year 2001.
The main priority for the budget 2001 must still be to remain active in the fight against unemployment.
Apart from this core initiative for the budget 2001, we must not allow the quality of economic and political integration achieved in the meantime to eclipse our cultural identity as Europeans.
The European Parliament also stands by these commitments.
We know that the Council also stands by its commitments and, at the donor conference today, the Portuguese Foreign Minister stated, in his capacity as President-in-Office of the Council, that the Council wished to secure lasting stability in the Balkans and that efforts would need to be made over several years in order to achieve this.
However, we expect the Council to set itself these new challenges and to act accordingly.
Gaining the ability to act in this important foreign policy area while, at the same time, losing it in other foreign policy areas as the result of excessive savings is unacceptable.
I must stress the fact that we are not questioning the interinstitutional agreement per se; we stand by this agreement, but we are calling for a review which takes real account of demands in a specific area, namely the additional cost of assistance for the Balkans and certain other foreign policy measures.
We want to support these aspects in the coming budget and concentrate our efforts on these areas.
Compared with a total budget of EUR 965 million, that does not represent too big a bite out of the cake at our disposal.
I only have to look at the Commission' s work programme, with its 108 codecision procedures, to see that this is a challenge which we did not have to face in the past.
I should like to thank everyone who worked with us on this, especially our own administration, for their correct and very positive preliminary work, and all the honourable Members who made it possible for us to present a proper result to plenary despite the limited time available.
We have a persistent and clear need to continue to work towards greening the budget in all areas of policy activity and I want to see further work on this this year.
In particular we want to consider the problems that the Treaty of Amsterdam presents and the fact that the full financial implications of the Treaty of Amsterdam are only being realised this year and we have to take account of that.
The committee also wants to reiterate its support for continued financial assistance to NGO participation in much of the technical committee work of the Parliament and the Commission.
The Committee requests that a programme for employment be created, specifically targeting women and, to this end, requests that a budget line be created to finance it, with the fundamental aim of achieving equality between men and women in the workplace, not only by means of measures to protect that equality but also by means of special formulae, which will allow women to integrate fully in the labour market without jeopardising other aspects of their lives.
The Committee stresses the importance of the collaboration between those non-governmental organisations and associations, whose activities complement the Community action programmes, to achieving the European Union' s aims with regard to equal opportunities between men and women. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as laid down in the Haug report are a starting point for a debate on the European Union budget for 2001 which promises to be both arduous and heated throughout the year.
Going back to the first four paragraphs of the motion for a resolution, which identify the European Parliament' s political priorities, and then those that contain the essence of its position, I would like to highlight the following aspects: appropriate funding is being promoted for the new policies introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam as well as for the policies that have been strengthened by the Treaty in the fields of internal and external action.
Let there be investment, then, in a culture of initiative.
The report restates the need for a sustainable and multiannual contribution to financial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo and for the stabilisation of the Balkans as part of a review of the financial perspective.
It rejects such financing if it is to be provided at the expense of existing commitments, either involving external actions or through cuts in the common agricultural policy or other policies.
The drive towards efficiency is especially vital in the context of enlargement.
It is important even at this early stage that we have a clear strategy on how the institutions will respond to the accession of new members.
The institutions cannot respond to enlargement by just adding an extra post here or an office there.
This is especially important in relation to linguistic support.
As everybody here needs to recognise, there are major limitations in relation to resources that will be available as a result of enlargement and there are implications for the financial perspective in relation to Category 5 expenditure.
However, these guidelines are not just about enlargement they are about policy direction for all the institutions next year.
To conclude, our group' s priorities are that these guidelines are budgetary prudence, improving efficiency, more effective budgetary control, better use of resources and general improvements in services and management, so I call upon all the other institutions to take these on and implement these improvements vigorously.
For that reason we support the report insofar as it emphasises the importance of developing this within the framework of structural action.
In a later debate on the budget we wish to draw attention to the matter of sufficient appropriations for science and research and financing the fight against exclusion in all its forms, within the meaning of Article 13 of the Treaty.
It is only right that the Commission, of all the institutions, should serve the interests of Europe, although it has to be said that during the negotiations for Budget 2000 we saw all too often how one half of the budgetary authority was mainly preoccupied with the national coffers.
Mr President, Commissioner, I must say that I feel rather uneasy when confronted with this report, especially after the amendments by the Committee on Budgets.
I hope that, beyond this vote, there will be enough of us to relaunch the initiative in time, in this spirit, and, this time, to hold out until the end.
I would also like to stress from the outset that, if we want to boost employment in the European Union, it is of fundamental importance to build on the role of small and medium-sized enterprises for, when all is said and done, they are the hard core of our undertaking in Europe.
Last year, the European Parliament brought the financial ceiling up for discussion at an early stage by seizing on the financing for Kosovo and the entire Balkans as leverage in our efforts to obtain a review of this ceiling.
So far, only some 30% of women have access to the Internet and high earners have three times more access to the Internet than low earners.
We are calling for sustainable financing for civil dialogue and for the non-governmental organisations involved in it, in order to support their important role as the voice of the disadvantaged.
I congratulate you on being able to express yourself in less than the time allotted to you.
In the first year in which the full budgetary procedure comes to fruition, we are all bound to be highly enthusiastic.
They may be the regions in Europe which are lagging behind in terms of economic development and which expect much from the solidarity of the European Union, namely assistance to help them develop into a balanced system of cohesion within the European Union, as far as living and working conditions are concerned.
She has said that we are prepared to work openly with the Council and the Commission.
In short, amending the financial perspective is not an end in itself, but should only be undertaken, in my view, as an absolute last resort.
Mr President, securing the future has always been a difficult issue, irrespective of whether it takes the form of a White Paper, deregulation, partnership or structural adjustment.
Fighting unemployment through economic growth is the greatest challenge facing Europe.
Unless these funds are channelled back into the agricultural budget, Agenda 2000 will be jeopardised, especially as further technical inconsistencies are to be expected.
Mr President, we cannot give our assent to the general economic rationale of the resolution on the budget guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as it now stands.
Indeed, we would protest against the veritable misappropriation of funds which is proposed: the inappropriate use of resources reserved for agricultural expenditure under Category I of the financial perspective as a source of funding to be used to meet funding requirements in the sphere of foreign policy.
It therefore constitutes an extremely dangerous precedent as far as our farmers are concerned.
This, moreover, is the message clearly expressed by the European Council in Lisbon, whose conclusions unequivocally refused to incorporate the Commission' s wish to reduce the agricultural budget by EUR 300 million in 2001, and by the same again in 2002.
We accept it still less in light of the fact that the calculations for the European Commission' s ambitious Balkans programme lack both discipline and precision, that the Union' s existing appropriations for Kosovo cannot be spent in full and that other donor states are not meeting their financial commitments.
Without a constant and intense effort in these fields there will be no competitiveness and a lack of competitiveness means no new jobs will be created.
We have therefore introduced an amendment to cover this.
However, it is not enough simply to give them access to new communication and information technologies.
In any event, the rapporteur has, in our judgement, correctly established the bases which will set the course for Section III of the Union' s budget for 2001 and we are happy to offer her our sincere congratulations on her work.
I make the point, Mr President, as I did yesterday in the Budgets Committee, in the twelve years of the financial perspective there have been 38 revisions totalling over EUR 7 000 billion of monies that have been involved in those revisions.
Mr President, I congratulate both rapporteurs on their reports, which have received a high degree of consensus.
The rapporteur, Mrs Haug, has reached broad areas of compromise in her report, which we hope will be respected in the vote, and which we hope will strengthen Parliament' s commitment with regard to employment, culture, the new Amsterdam policies and, no less importantly, the budgetary obligations and rights.
This House voted by a majority for a financial perspective which respected the political balances of Berlin, even when we were all aware of its shortcomings in the face of unexpected external events.
If we have to finance new policies, we have to find new funding.
If the Council intends to finance actions in the Balkans at the expense of current external or agricultural policies, it would not only be showing a lack of political vision but it would also be failing in the commitments it has signed up to.
If we have a budgetary procedure, can we then establish if the main priority which we have now set at European level has been achieved, and where new jobs are being created or where new jobs are being destroyed?
Commissioner Byrne quite rightly said that, as far as he was concerned, public health took priority.
Then it was said that environmental protection took priority.
Mr President, I want to thank the rapporteurs for their work and say that they have found a decent consensus and produced good reports.
If there are to be problems - and sometimes there are problems - it will be around this whole question of the proposal to finance the shortfall in Category 4 with money from the agricultural section of the budget.
This proposal is more likely to create psychological problems throughout the European Union in rural areas than real problems.
We need a little bit more clarity and there is tension building up between the institutions on this question of the Balkans.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect the priorities of European policy in the budget of the European Union, that is the objective of this highly premature debate on the budget 2001.
The report suggests that the other institutions will also gradually follow this lead.
Mr Ferber, you referred in your report to other problems which need to be resolved.
As far as the Commission' s priorities are concerned, I should like to point out that the Commission conducted the priorities debate at its meeting on 23 February where it came to the conclusion that particular account should be taken in the budget 2001 of the stronger foreign policy commitments of the European Union and of the important objectives of promoting rural development and supporting the transition to an information society.
You demanded this of the Commission and the Council in your resolution of 16 December.
According to the financial perspective, compared with the budget 2000, an increase of EUR 3.1 billion for agricultural market expenditure would be possible from a purely theoretical point of view, according to the figures.
The Commission proposal makes provision for a further increase of EUR 2.8 billion for agricultural market expenditure.
I hope that this will also be supported by the budgetary authority because I think that this rural development programme offers a great deal of scope for promoting new endeavours in agricultural policy.
I think this move would seriously improve the transparency of the budget and I hope that the Council will not stand by its initial rejection of this suggestion.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The motion for a resolution which has been tabled takes account of this fact.
The worrying increase in the number of cases of sexual exploitation of children shows that the European Union and its Member States need to use every means at their disposal in order to protect the weakest members of our society, i.e.
Each of us knows of cases of child abuse in our own country.
The European Parliament flatly rejects this regulation on possible exceptions.
The Member States must be proactive in opposing anything which encourages or plays down child sex tourism.
Respect for the rights of the child must be anchored in the European Treaties if we are to guarantee protection for children in principle.
All the points which it has now been decided should be regulated and taken into account in the future within the European Union must be given the same consideration in accession negotiations, in relations with third countries and, most importantly, when deciding how development cooperation funds should be deployed.
This applies not only to our children but to all children.
I should therefore like to thank all my fellow Members, especially those from the other committees involved, whose positions have been worked into my report.
Child sex tourism is a tragic and distressing fact of life and this problem has become worse and more serious in certain regions of the world over recent years.
It is important to clarify the legal situation and to dispense with the notion of dual criminality.
We need a common approach in the European Union and in the Member States, in cooperation with the third countries in question.
Children as persons with their own, inviolable rights deserve our special protection, irrespective of the country in which they live.
This protection must be guaranteed in both theory and practice.
In all the Member States of the European Union, the necessary legislative measures must be taken and the laws harmonised in order to guarantee the protection of children.
It is not only excellent in quality but also extremely useful.
Indeed, the United Nations Convention of 20 November 1989 granted them specific rights and all our actions should take their inspiration from recognition of these rights.
Secondly, this report makes a contribution to police and judicial cooperation in the European Union.
I therefore support Amendment No 4 calling for a European centre for missing children and victims of sexual abuse to be set up in order to coordinate the activities of the organisations set up in the Member States.
It must be noted that the proposals made have only been implemented in part.
It is all very well to discuss the problem in the third world, but I believe, as previous speakers have said, that there are also major problems within the European Union, and I have just learnt that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has requested a separate vote on the important sections of this report.
These are extremely serious matters, involving high-ranking personalities, but it is all still perfectly concealed, completely outside the scope of the justice system.
We therefore urgently need an integrated and cohesive Community policy on children and it is really sad - as others too have said - that the Treaty of Amsterdam does not provide the necessary legal base.
We should look towards the good example set by Sweden.
Mr President, in November 1996, the European Commission adopted its first communication on combating child sex tourism.
A year later, in November 1997, a European Parliament resolution and a Council statement on 'Tourism' revealed the general consensus among the institutions on the broad lines of the Commission communication.
Since then, this support has been implemented in practical terms by the setting up of a new budget line, with the funds made available intended for campaigns to raise awareness, within the European Union, and to combat the development of child sex tourism.
It has since been expressed in the Council conclusions of 21 December 1999, which display a new firm political commitment to resolving this significant social problem, which we are pledged to do.
At the same time, further progress in this direction will contribute to our response to the concerns expressed by European citizens at the development of this scourge.
You will have noted that Community measures combating child sex tourism is progressing at a sustained rate along the lines of the strategy initially agreed, aiming, on the one hand, to reduce demand, particularly by means of cooperation with the tourist industry and the relevant NGOs, and, on the other hand, to tackle the sources of supply in tourist destination countries by any appropriate means, including Community policies for external relations and development cooperation.
The importance of this second aspect was, moreover, highlighted by the Commission as early as 1998 when the support strategy for the development of sustainable tourism in developing countries was defined, which stipulated that the problem of child sex tourism should be taken into specific consideration as the subject of structured political dialogue with the countries most affected, particularly at regional level.
The development of child sex tourism flies in the face of the very idea of a human community united on the basis of ideals such as respect and dignity, and public welfare and remembrance.
The Council joint action of 24 February 1997 on combating the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, stipulating that each Member State should undertake to review its own national legislation on measures relating to types of deliberate behaviour, is exemplary in this regard.
Other Commission initiatives in the context of the increased involvement of the tourist industry have also had practical results, particularly in terms of drawing up and strengthening codes of conduct and other self-regulatory mechanisms in the tourist industry.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
It is on the very important subject of product liability on which the European Community first introduced legislation as long ago as 1985 in the form of a directive.
This was transposed in a somewhat leisurely way, and in some cases we might even say in a shockingly slow way, by Member States.
This legislation substitutes distributive justice, in a sense, for corrective justice in this very important area of the law of civil liability.
The Green Paper raised the question of whether this scheme should be extended and whether some changes should be made.
This was in response to debates in Parliament last year, which led to the amendment of the directive to include primary agricultural products.
Mr President, yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, an American court awarded the nicotine victim Leslie Whiteley compensation of no less than USD 44 million.
We want a liability law which promotes innovation and does not conceal incalculable liability risks for companies launching new products.
I should just like to make a few more comments on behalf of my group on a number of necessary amendments on which both we and the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party reached extensive agreement in the run-up.
My group believes the Commission should check if prima facie evidence and circumstantial evidence can also be taken into account at all levels at which evidence is taken.
However, it is not only these individual points which are important; we also need to seize every opportunity to harmonise product liability still further in the form of comprehensive consumer protection in the European Union.
If we supplement the MacCormick report in this direction, the European Parliament will have done a good job in the eyes of the consumer.
Mr President, I would like to welcome what is a very well considered report, which invites us to stand back and take stock before embarking on further legislation in this field - a refreshing welcome from the tendency of this House sometimes to rush, or to be pushed to rush, at complex legislation.
In our enthusiasm we sometimes forget what a sensitive subject the harmonisation of private law is; it touches the national legal traditions in our Member States, legal traditions born of our differing histories and cultures of separate nations and jurisdictions.
The traditional push towards harmonisation has been the internal market to which we can now add the aspirations of Tampere for a single area of European justice.
But harmonisation must respect subsidiarity - we have no need to rush towards uniformity of civil law in this area of product liability.
I would argue quite strongly that we have achieved a very fair and reasonable balance of interests.
If our regulations on product liability stifle competitiveness and innovation, I suggest that consumers will be at a major disadvantage as well.
So let me echo Mr MacCormick: there is a need for much more clearly-based factual evidence before we make changes to this legislation.
This Green Paper represents a first step towards this review.
The second principle consists of removing the burden of proof from the party that has suffered the damage.
The third principle concerns setting levels of compensation.
The directive does provide for this eventuality, but we must bear in mind the fact that judicial bodies are used to seeing this setting of compensation as interference by legislative authority in its duties and this issue must therefore also be reviewed.
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr MacCormick, for the report he has produced and the work he has done.
At the time, the Commission put forward a proposal to the effect that the principle of risk liability for defective products, which is provided for in Directive 85/374, should also be applied to primary agricultural products and products of hunting.
On 29 July last year, the Commission gave its blessing to the current Green Paper on liability for defective products.
In an important section of the Green Paper, all interested parties are invited to make a firm case for their stance on the need for revision.
In any case, it is clear that these subjects will all need to be addressed in a report that the Commission intends to compile towards the end of this year.
I undertake to do so on behalf of the Commission, but this must be in concert with Parliament of course, and with the other interested parties, because as an entity, the Commission is, of course, dependent on the views expressed by society and by this House.
The debate is closed.
I think we must place this report, and also the directive which is in the pipeline, in the context of the European Union' s energy policy with its three objectives of competitive pricing, security of supply and environmental protection.
Since 29 February 2000, we have had a common electricity market but, regrettably, still with considerable distortions of competition which still, unfortunately, work to the disadvantage of both renewable energy cogeneration and energy management and the forms of energy of the future.
The directive which is currently being prepared should, in my opinion, have two objectives.
Firstly, the current imperfect market must be adjusted as necessary in order to protect the still tender shoots of the plant which is renewable energy, and also to lay the foundations for renewable energies so that they head in the direction that they need to before the year 2030 or 2040, when they must be capable of providing the greater part of the European Community energy mix.
We have many reasons to move in this direction.
Firstly, the protection of the environment, but also the creation of jobs.
It must have ambitious, clearly defined objectives at European level in the order of those given in the Commission White Paper, i.e. 12% for energy and 23% for electricity.
After setting these objectives at the European level, there must be 'burden sharing' negotiations between the Commission and the Member States in order for reciprocal agreement to be reached on the specific national objectives which, when added together, will combine to form the European objective.
On the other hand, there are the trading systems which have just been created in the Netherlands and Denmark, where there are still many administrative and technical problems to resolve.
There is one last point which I wish to put forward, namely the need for a system for labelling and providing information on all forms of electricity.
In an internal market, the consumer should be informed, and this information should be provided for every form of energy, not just green electricity.
Fourthly, we must bear in mind that sources of fossil fuels have been accompanied recently by price fluctuations ranging from 10 to 30 dollars a barrel.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has basically been in agreement on this question since 1996.
For example, elevating the feed-in system to a universal panacea is wrong.
We here in the European Union cannot impose mandatory obligations on the Member States.
Mr President, I would like to reiterate the thanks to the rapporteur for the extremely cooperative manner in which he has embarked upon this important report and I am pleased to participate in the intimate gathering of renewable fanatics so late at night.
That requires, above and beyond everything else, downward pressure on the unacceptably high and legally dubious levels of subsidies which continue to flow to fossil energy sources in the European Union, notably, but not excusably, the coal industry in a number of large Member States.
We cannot be serious about this without trying to add teeth in some form, moral, financial or otherwise to the concept of targets.
Paragraph 22 of this report calls for the establishment of a European sustainable energy agency.
This Parliament and the European institutions have been spawning a blizzard of new agencies all over the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and particularly the excellent definition of renewables.
The directive, as some of the speakers have already said, needs to have binding targets in order for the Member States and the entire EU to achieve a significant increase in the share of renewable energies in the total energy market.
The directive should also contain mechanisms to discourage, as we have already heard, the Member States from their market distorting subsidies to traditional forms of energy, particularly fossil fuels and nuclear.
The directive should explicitly propose a system of support and advantages for the small and medium-sized companies in decentralised production and distribution of renewable energies.
Finally, I would urge that it is important that some of the undertakings by Member States to include renewables in the energy mix in the electricity sector be at least equal to the total EU commitment made in the White Paper on renewable energy, as endorsed by the Council and this Parliament.
If we are serious about this, we must be prepared to make funds available for research and development in this area, both at national and European levels.
The creation of an internal market in electricity should provide consumers of electricity with real choice.
The introduction of an element of competition in any industry should lead to more favourable pricing for the consumer.
While it is desirable to create a level playing field it may also be necessary to provide subsidies for certain types of energy in order to promote other objectives.
Clearly the development of renewables is linked to environmental objectives as well as issues of employment, regional development and the promotion of local initiatives.
I would like to see the development of small local initiatives which would strengthen rural development by the provision of, say, 20 to 30 jobs per project.
Such projects should not only be open to the business sector and local groups such as small locally-based co-ops should be assisted in creating such local enterprises.
This report states that support for renewable energy projects must not be viewed as a straightforward subsidy under the state aid rules.
It is clear that there are serious distortions in the energy market with many hidden subsidies to both coal and oil generated energy.
We still face a significant challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto protocol while, at the same time, promoting growth within our economies.
I believe that, while each Member State must work towards the 12% target of renewables, the imposition of a single binding target would not be helpful because of the great differences in the structure of the energy market between Member States.
Peat power plants work very well indeed in my country and make an important contribution to Ireland' s energy supply.
Therefore, I regret to say that my final vote on this project will be seriously affected.
Mr President, the need to promote the development of sources of renewable energy becomes a crucial matter every time that issues such as the Kyoto protocol and meeting our commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions are raised or when we talk about sustainability in energy policy.
Secondly, any support mechanism that is considered must be realistic and consistent, but must, above all, fit into a stable and appropriate legal framework if it is to achieve the desired effect.
In order for any action related to the development of new projects for investment in these technologies to be launched, it will require a legal basis which will ensure that the laws on which it is based are transparent.
Its content provides the necessary balance for us to be able to rate it positively, but our final position will depend on the outcome with regard to certain key points.
Mr President, I have an interest, though not a financial one, in this subject in that I am chairman of the Northern Energy Initiative, a company which operates in the north-east of England, and has within it a renewable energy agency whose objective is to promote the development of renewable energies.
It is important to have EU and national targets, but it is also important to have a European directive which will support efforts at local and regional level, where many of the decisions are actually taken.
Support for demonstration projects should be included in any directive.
The report does contain many good ideas.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on being open to dialogue on all areas connected to the report and to the amendments.
I would finally like to mention the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for this kind of energy, which would foster its rapid development, bearing in mind that, in the long term, renewables must become predominant.
I also think that research and development in this area need greater support.
I think that this management system is particularly significant for the future of energy supplies in Europe.
I would like to remind you that in April last year the Commission approved a working paper on electricity from renewable sources, whose main objective was to present a thorough overview of the support programmes of the different Member States in the field of renewable energies, as well as to highlight certain conclusions and possible options for the adoption of Community measures in this area.
In this respect, Parliament' s contribution is an extremely important element in this process.
This House has always been forthright in its support for active policies designed to promote renewable energies.
Some aspects are more open to debate, but they also deserve thorough study, even if they must be rejected, in some cases because they are not sufficiently based on fact or because the problems they present are greater than the solutions they propose.
I agree with Mr Turmes on the need to protect the different national systems in force at the time that this directive is adopted.
This is what we will do, which does not mean that, in five years time, there should not be a review of the different systems and that we should not commit ourselves to those which have proved to be the most effective and which have resulted in greater development of renewable energies in those countries.
In any event, as you know, on 2 December 1999, in the Energy Council, I gave a questionnaire to the Member States, so I could see what stage we had reached, what stage the issue had reached, and so I could present a directive that could obtain sufficient consensus to quickly conclude its passage through both Parliament and the Council.
The result of this questionnaire, which has been studied by the services, is a document, in my opinion, of extremely high quality, which I hope will enable us to get through the Parliamentary and Council procedures reasonably quickly.
My personal view - although there are other ideas on this subject - is that, as things stand, we cannot write off other energies, for reasons of competitiveness and growth.
In this respect, we must be able to ensure that those who do commit themselves to renewables have a fair return on their investments.
We obviously have to create a stable framework that will enable investors to make investments which require a sufficient number of years to cover their repayment.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the speakers, and to assure them that this element of stability, which will enable decisions relating to medium-term investments to be taken, will also feature in the proposal for a directive that I hope to be able to present to you soon.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m.)
