After we had already discussed the legal basis for this decision, and also raised appropriate objections to it, to which we received no response from the Commission, this House decided yesterday to agree to the Commission's legislative proposal and then passed a resolution rejecting the Commission's proposal.
Mr Swoboda, I understand the reasons for your request.
Mr President, in 1993 the Maastricht Treaty established the right to petition the European Parliament and the right to complain to the European Ombudsman as rights of European citizenship.
The reports and resolutions which the European Parliament is debating today concern the present state of these vital constitutional rights of European citizens.
This good cooperation is vital to ensure that the Ombudsman can deal with complaints promptly and effectively and thereby fulfils his mission of enhancing relations between the citizens and the Community institutions and bodies.
Jean-Maurice Dehousse, rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has also played an important role.
The Nice Charter includes good administration as one of the fundamental rights of citizenship.
I cannot understand why anyone should oppose the idea of Community law providing citizens with as high a standard of legal protection vis-à-vis the European administration as national laws already provide vis-à-vis the Member States' administrations.
The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Statute of the European Ombudsman is unusual because the Treaty makes the European Parliament the legislator and also entrusts to it the power of initiative.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Teresa Almeida Garrett, for the principled approach which she has taken to the legislative process.
Its provisions concerning the inspection of documents and the hearing of witnesses need to be updated in the light of the greater emphasis on administrative openness and the need to gain the confidence of the public and promote a modern administrative culture at Community level.
To this end, we have continued our efforts to eliminate unnecessary delay by insisting that the institutions and bodies respect the deadlines for responding to complaints and by improving our own efficiency.
In five other cases, the Statute lays down that the institution concerned has a further three months to produce a detailed opinion.
An example of such problems is the case of the petition concerning the regulation of the Lloyd's insurance market.
In my view, the most effective way to improve the situation could be through strengthening cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions, especially in relation to petitions about infringements of Community law by Member States, where the Commission plays a vital role through the so-called Article 226 procedure.
For my part, I am ready to enter discussions with the committee and the European Parliament's administration to achieve this.
The White Paper contains much talk, but few concrete proposals for action to benefit citizens.
It can be bridged only slowly, by the development of European citizenship in an honest, fair and just way. (Applause) rapporteur. (DE) - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate the Ombudsman most warmly on the work which he and his colleagues carried out in 2000, and would like to lay before you some figures to emphasise these congratulations and this esteem, and which underline how this People's Advocate has become an institution whose absence from the European scene can no longer even be contemplated.
The Ombudsman has already addressed many of the points made in my report.
I believe your work has become a quite central building block for the further development of the European Union, and I hope that it will continue as it has begun.
As the Ombudsman himself said this morning, unfortunately the institutions of Europe do not enjoy the highest reputation amongst our citizens.
The right to good administration is enshrined in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
But without this code, the charter would just be a form of words.
Spain, is just one example.
The European Union must now follow suit with its own code of good administrative behaviour.
But from the Magna Carta 1215 to our citizens' charter of the 1990s, we in Britain have welcomed codes that set out citizens' rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, Ombudsman, recently, the Charter of Fundamental Rights acknowledged every European citizen' s right to good administration.
For this reason, the Ombudsman has always been able to count on the support of this Parliament.
In the course of recent years and through the presentation of annual reports, we have been able to see the increasingly visible affirmation of this still young institution and the increasingly consistent and productive results of its worthy activity.
I am convinced that the majority of this House will understand that given the hazy border that sometimes exists between political and administrative acts, Parliament claims for itself the monopoly on political control of the members of the Commission, as the prerogative of those who have been directly elected by the citizens of Europe and that it acknowledges that this power cannot be delegated.
That is why I think the Ombudsman is right to propose amending Article 3 of the statute, which dates from the 1990s.
In any case, the continuation of this important process demands further efforts at every level.
This is very important.
The approach of these reports is based on the need to create a system of transparency and understanding, so that citizens of the European Union can be confident that when they have a legitimate complaint they have recourse to the Ombudsman or the Committee on Petitions, depending on the nature of their problem.
I fully support the view that is necessary to incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the treaties of the Union, so as to further enhance the rights of citizens of Europe.
The Bösch report quite rightly praises the cooperation between Parliament and the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman's office and the invaluable procedure of referring complaints to the Committee on Petitions where they fall outside his remit.
It is clear that the Ombudsman, reinforced by the Charter, plays an increasingly meaningful and forceful role in protecting the citizen from abuses of executive authority.
We have tabled one amendment to Article 3 of the Statute, which would bring Members of the Commission and Members of Parliament as well as members of the agencies of the Union, such as Europol, beneath the purview of the Ombudsman.
The Commission opposes this reform on the grounds that it implies political interference, but we believe that the Ombudsman is perfectly capable of distinguishing between maladministration and defective politics.
The right to inquire into the conduct of those supremely responsible for administration is an essential part of good governance and a necessary complement to, not a substitute for, the work of this Parliament in exercising democratic accountability in relation to the College.
In most, if not all, Member States national ministers are subject to inquiries by the national ombudsman and it would be a pity if European standards of good administration fell below the norms now established in our Member States.
Mr President, the Ombudsman, Jacob Söderman, said in this debate this morning that citizenship is perhaps less fashionable than the technocratic way of doing things, and in this he might be right.
Applause Mr President, what we are discussing here today is European citizenship and the rights of European citizens themselves.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say something about the proposed modification of Article 3 of the Ombudsman' s Statute, in other words Mrs Garrett' s report.
However, just over 1 700 complaints received in 2000, of which only 297 have been declared admissible, does not demonstrate good administration by the institutions of Europe, it shows above all a lack of information to citizens on their means of defence against some aspects of Brussels bureaucracy.
Mr President, Mr Söderman, it is more than ten years since we proposed introducing a European Ombudsman.
The statute should be revised so that the Ombudsman is entitled to see each and every document before he has to pronounce upon a matter.
The European Parliament' s Committee on Budgetary Control has the same problem.
Mr President, this may well look like a fight over a tiny paragraph somewhere in the EU's great system of treaties, but I believe that what we are dealing with is a quite fundamental question and not just a cultural contrast.
Mr President, I welcome all these reports but will concentrate this morning on the Bösch report, highlighting the very important work carried out by the Ombudsman which goes some way to respecting the idea of transparency and open governance.
Of course the Ombudsman's powers are limited, but I am happy that the report demonstrates that the Ombudsman does his utmost in most cases in the name of fair play.
However many complaints addressed to the Ombudsman still concern actions by national authorities, for which the European Ombudsman is not competent, and many complaints prove not to merit any action.
The Ombudsman's special reports, based on his right to own-initiative inquiry, make an important contribution to the interpretation and development of Community law.
I particularly welcome the fact that, in connection with the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Ombudsman has strongly urged that the Charter recognise the citizen's right to an open, accountable and service-minded administration.
The Ombudsman does not have an easy time of it.
The Ombudsman' s very moderate proposals for a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour for the individual institutions has of course been met with that mixture of verbal good will and practical passivity which, in practice, can block any progress, and the current restrictions upon the Ombudsman' s ability to obtain any of the relevant information on the matters with which he is dealing - we are concerned here with Article 3 of the statute - is downright scandalous.
A regulation concerning good administrative behaviour - and which is not ineffectual nonsense from the Commission, but the Ombudsman' s own proposal - is something that we shall be able to support.
Accordingly, we are able to support the proposal to amend Article 3 which, in its present state, really means that the institutions can refuse to provide the Ombudsman with the information needed for him to be able to exercise any supervision at all.
Mr President, the joint debate of these three reports is an important debate.
Unfortunately, a great many of our fellow Members still do not know this.
At the same time, I saw the huge role played by the Ombudsman in ensuring that this legal order operates smoothly in the Community.
The second point I want to make in connection with the regulatory role of the Ombudsman is that the right of complaint and petition is tending to develop into a conciliation procedure for resolving differences amicably, which is the only way of settling differences flexibly and cheaply and freeing up the Court of the European Communities.
I should like to close by pointing out that we need a generally applicable code of conduct on general principles and that individual organisations should only have their own code of conduct on matters which relate specifically to them.
The institution of the Ombudsman is very important, and it is important that we should all constantly keep an eye on it and ensure that it can thrive, in the light of the new developments too.
The Ombudsman himself stated that there is a gulf between the EU and its citizens.
The first is the White Paper.
The Ombudsman himself touched upon this.
It is crucial that the Ombudsman should have the widest possible access and I agree with comments made by colleagues concerning the need for greater openness.
We see a lack of openness in the British government, the Council and the Commission, and it would be useful if the Ombudsman could give us further help on this issue.
I believe that the Committee on Petitions should have greater powers.
I believe then that, somewhere along the line, even Mr Krarup will say that we need the EU.
I should like to turn first to the Bösch report, the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman for the year 2000.
The European Ombudsman' s work focuses on poor administration and the Commission is bound to improve its administration and the quality of services provided for the benefit of the citizens.
One aspect of the Bösch report of particular concern to us is the follow-up to critical comments.
Mr Perry has highlighted how these codes of good conduct are crucially important in guaranteeing a high quality service to European citizens.
We have taken full account of the provisions contained in the Ombudsman' s draft code amongst the various other codes adopted by European institutions and bodies.
The White Paper on good governance stands for much more than administrative reform.
As soon as sufficient information becomes available, the Commission will consider whether or not to prepare a legislative proposal for a horizontal regulation.
We need to have more information available so we do not at present have a position on the matter.
I shall only refer to it briefly however, because pursuant to Article 195 of the Treaty the Commission is only competent to give an opinion, and the latter is not binding.
I have also had the opportunity to speak on the subject at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to emphasise how well the present statute has worked.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has tabled three amendments.
We might also encounter problems with the governments of Member States of the Union.
The structure of the European Union, based as it is on three pillars, means that the function of the Commission and also that of Parliament itself varies depending on the pillar in question.
The Commission will therefore deal with these matters in greater detail in the opinion to be given and put to Parliament in the near future, once a final position on the text approved has been adopted.
As regards access to documents emanating from the Member States it would be appropriate, as I said earlier, to be consistent with the new Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on public access to documents.
The principle of obtaining prior consent from the Member State is provided for under Article 4 Paragraph 5 of the Regulation, and in the framework agreement with Parliament.
Firstly there was the question of hearing Commissioners as witnesses and the problem that arose in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where people felt that there might be a difficulty in drawing a line between the political control of the European Parliament, the political responsibility of Commissioners and the administrative responsibility of the same Commissioners.
We have had a few complaints in this connection and the Commissioners have always replied very correctly.
The idea that the Ombudsman has the right to see all documents is because the citizens do not have this access.
Trust in the Ombudsman's work is based on the fact that the citizens accept that they cannot have access to all documents but they need to know that the Ombudsman has the right if necessary.
The principle must, however, be in place that the Ombudsman has the right to see documents.
It is very important that the White Paper is discussed because there is still one run to go.
I will now turn to the criticism about the low number of complaints, publicising the work of the Ombudsman institutions, and the many complaints outside the mandate.
Citizens may find this difficult to understand when they encounter problems with Community law.
There is the possibility that this limits the number of complaints but the number has been increasing over the years.
On the question of publicising the Ombudsman's work, I would mention that we are more known than many ombudsmen on the national stage and Members of Parliament can surely do a lot to tell citizens about the right to petition and the right of complaint to the Ombudsman.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In addition, the European Ombudsman has a key role to play in this great task.
The situations in which petitioners find themselves are often Kafkaesque.
On 13 June, I had the honour of putting a report on silicone implants to the vote in Parliament.
This report is an example of the use, which is unfortunately all too rare, of paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure, which says in particular that the committee responsible may decide to draw up reports on the petitions that it has declared to be admissible and, if necessary, to put motions for resolutions to the vote in Parliament.
It was following two petitions collecting more than 1000 signatures that this report was undertaken.
But it was only the second time since the Committee on Petitions was created that a resolution adopted by Parliament resulted from direct complaints from citizens of the European Union.
Increased use of Article 175, an idea that is defended by the rapporteur, should enable our Committee to make a direct link between citizens' problems and all the Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, the fact that over 10 000 petitions have been received by the Committee on Petitions since its inception clearly demonstrates the practical significance of the European Union for its citizens.
Mr President, I should begin by saying how much I appreciate the work undertaken by the Committee on Petitions.
European citizens generally take recourse to the Committee on Petitions precisely in order to complain about infringements or omissions by ministers and their services, when they are wronged or when their protest or complaint is ignored.
We have entered a season of reform, defence and strengthening of the institution of petitions and we believe that season of reform will give us the power to defend the citizens and, at the same time, make the European institutions better known to our ever-growing population.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this debate is the same as for the previous one, namely relations between the European institutions and the citizens.
They have tried to adduce reasons, possibilities or solutions to concerns expressed by the Committee on Petitions further to requests or complaints by citizens.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
honey (8701/2000 - C5-0347/1999 - 1996/0114(CNS)); 3.
It is a little late, but I am still going to attempt it.
In the previous legislature, Parliament gave its opinion on the Commission' s proposals on the simplification of vertical directives on sugar, honey, fruit juices, milk and jams.
The point of view of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is certainly compatible with this objective, but it also consists of not abandoning quality requirements in the name of simplification, and above all not compromising on good consumer information.
All the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, a large proportion of which came from the rapporteur, have this aim.
I am going to review the various directives in order to give the main elements of them.
This is a sensitive case insofar as honey is a high quality product, usually produced on a small scale, with which there have been many marketing problems in previous years, inasmuch as we often see mixtures of honeys and also honeys coming onto the European Union market whose quality is not guaranteed.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy proposes that we do not accept this proposal, as filtered honey is in fact a honey whose floral origin cannot be checked.
With regard to harmful substances that may be found in honey for industry or baker' s honey, we think that it should be forbidden for them to be present in honey.
There is therefore an amendment from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in this respect.
We think that the text proposed to us is quite satisfactory.
Mr President, it is about five years ago that the Council consulted us on the proposal to simplify seven vertical directives on foodstuffs.
The PPE-DE Group would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
On these, our view differs slightly from that in the report, but that was also apparent in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
However, I do not want to conceal the fact - and I should like to devote the rest of my speaking time to this - that we in our group, further to these issues arising, have held a serious debate on the issue of whether it is really up to a Parliament to discuss such detailed measures with 626 Members.
We realise that the detail is important in this connection, but we do wonder whether, with the material being at such a high technical level, we really are the people best placed to take the decisions and whether we should inconvenience 626 MEPs with these kinds of far-reaching, technical measures.
They have been referred back to us simply because there are some changes to the comitology procedure.
It is, however, proposing new textual changes to the draft directive.
One case in point is the inclusion of the definition of brown sugar.
The suggestion to introduce three new product names for fruit juices is not in line with proposals currently under discussion on the Codex.
However the point I want to make is not about the actual merit of the report, but rather about an evaluation that this Parliament needs to carry out over the next few months on the future legislative method.
Another aspect I want to bring up is the excessive regulation to which we subject our legislative process, which is not reflected in our Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen: I would like to make use of the short time available to me to comment on Article 3 of the Directive on fruit juices.
Descriptions such as 'juice' , 'fruit juice' , 'nectar' , 'fruit juice from concentrate' or even 'contains fruit' make it difficult for consumers to assess a product's true quality or know how it was produced.
In my view, the proposed Amendments Nos 18, 19 and 25 make the current legal position stricter in an unjustifiable way, particularly for the juice industry, and I believe they should be rejected.
Mr President, Commissioner, as time is short I shall only refer to the directive on fruit juice.
Further, I totally reject Amendments Nos 18, 19, 23 and 25.
I believe this Directive applies equally to juice, fresh fruit, juice produced in the home, or packaged juice.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, food and consumer protection have become vexatious topics.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the directive on fruit juices, I would like to indicate our agreement with the Council' s proposal, which we think is going in the right direction, that is to say towards effective protection for consumers, who need to be provided with clear, easy to understand and objective information that will enable them to make a completely informed choice, both in terms of quality and in terms of food safety.
The higher production costs associated with the effort and the quality guarantee must, however, be clearly acknowledged in labelling.
In terms of labelling, current practice does not enable consumers to clearly distinguish between these two categories.
We, think, Mr President, that defining these two categories of juice, corresponding to two different names, represents real progress in consumer information, and that is why we support it.
Along with previous speakers, we believe that the Council' s proposal represents definite progress because it establishes a clear distinction between fresh fruit juice and concentrated juice.
This is a welcome development as it provides consumers with full information on two products with different characteristics produced in very different ways.
Consequently, we shall support the Council' s proposal and vote in its favour.
As regards the amendments to the Council's five drafts, the Commission notes that Parliament had been heard as early as 1996 on the corresponding proposals by the Commission and had adopted positions on them in the sittings of 14 January 1998 and 4 May 1999.
I must therefore, unfortunately, observe that the Commission cannot accept the amendments proposed in the report.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
However, item 4 still contains a sentence which contradicts the first decision because it still says that the upper ceiling is to be maintained, which was something we rejected at the outset.
Amendments Nos 55 and 56 should clearly be voted on before Amendment No 75, and there has been agreement about this for quite a long time.
I therefore insist on putting my proposal to the vote to see who is in favour and who is against.
Mr Nisticò, you said two things.
Mr President, Mr Nisticò said there was an oral amendment to Amendment No 43, which is one of the ones you are trying to take en bloc.
If the oral amendment pertains to Amendment No 43 which forms part of the bloc vote, then you can read it out, in which case we will deal with this matter now before we vote en bloc.
The oral amendment to Amendment No 43 can now be clarified.
We will now vote en bloc on all 60 committee amendments, except for Amendment No 43.
The Commission is right to propose such an opt-in in Article 13.
I voted against both these reports.
There is a great danger here that in future we will have a society where people are afraid to communicate and use modern technology because they know that their communications will be intercepted, listened to, and be in the hands of people who have no right to them.
The fact that I voted against does not mean to say that I am not concerned about these issues.
Nisticò Report (A5-0272/2001) . (PT) There are controversial aspects to this report as there are, in fact, to the Commission' s own proposal.
As the rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market said, it would perhaps be preferable for the two directives, that is, the current proposal on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and the directive on universal service, to merge.
In the light of this, I consider that only an opt-in solution can effectively protect consumers from unsolicited advertisements.
Ries Report (A5-0271/2001) Schörling (Verts/ALE), in writing. (SV) High brominated flame retardants are to be found high up in the food chain.
The study shows that the content of brominated flame retardants in eggs from wild peregrine falcons is 400 times higher than that in eggs from falcons kept in cages.
The European Parliament has repeatedly turned its attention to the problem of testing blood for transfusions and blood donors and has passed a plethora of resolutions since 1993.
And there is still serious public concern as the result of criminal irresponsibility on the part of the relevant authorities in various countries of the European Union.
The aim of the Commission proposal to amend Directive 89/381/ÅEC is to improve both quality and safety in standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and its various components.
More importantly, Member States can impose even stricter standards and blood moved between the 15 is not governed by the rules of the internal market.
We only regret that the report does not envisage a formal obligation for companies to grant their employees the necessary time in order to give blood and to remove the bureaucratic authorisation procedures that discourage those with good intentions.
Greater safety increases confidence in the supply system, which, as a result, encourages donors to give blood.
This directive, however, should also highlight principles.
Everyone agrees in deploring, quite rightly, the shortage of blood and plasma within the European Union while stressing the fact that under no circumstances should we relax our vigilance regarding the quality of these products, so much so that the European Union' s requirements are half covered by imports!
It is about adopting stricter requirements regarding the admissibility of donors and practical screening of them, as well as putting in place a quality system at Community level in blood transfusion establishments.
Of course, these measures will not prevent the Member States from maintaining or establishing stricter protection measures.
The European Parliament report rightly stresses the importance of the voluntary nature of blood donation while accepting that the social contribution made by donors and the commendable nature of the donations that they make should be highlighted.
As a blood donor myself and a supporter of the cause of blood donation, I therefore voted in favour of this report.
I have been involved in the issue of blood donation for many years in the Italian Parliament, including setting up a parliamentary group belonging to AVIS, the principle Italian donor organisation.
A high number of donors is crucial to enabling each Member State to be self-sufficient, although the principle of solidarity must also apply between Member States, whenever necessary and whenever possible.
As stated in the report, if we want donors to give blood for free, which should be the case, the blood supply system cannot be commercial.
The processing of blood at all stages must be a service carried out for the Member States' health services for the benefit of patients.
The initiatives advocated by this report will, I believe and hope, enable us to prevent the disasters that we have experienced, particularly in France with the case of contaminated blood.
We cannot keep this tragic outcome, which is so imprinted on our minds, out of our discussion.
If national courts in the European Union are allowed to return judgments under competition law in the future, we shall no longer, I think, be able to talk of a uniform competition policy in Europe, especially now that the European Union is preparing for enlargement.
The call for legal certainty is not only a matter of further development by the Commission.
Lest any doubts remain that the Commission is seeking to renationalise policy, it has tabled Article 3 of the regulation, which guarantees the primacy of Community law over national law, in other words, the implementation by national authorities and courts of Community law.
The economies of most of those states are weak in comparison with those of the current Member States.
It is not to be expected that these new Member States will swiftly change over to the euro as their own legal currency.
I am therefore not in favour of the simultaneous cut in the maximum level of loans to be allocated, from EUR 16 billion to EUR 12 billion.
The Commission has still not made a concrete proposal for the way in which the new Member States can participate.
Thank you, Mr Lannoye, and thank you Europe!
It is therefore essential to indicate to consumers the difference between a fresh fruit juice and a fruit juice made from concentrate.
In the same way, some fruit juices are produced by mixing fresh fruit juice and juice made from concentrate.
It is important that in this case labels should have an additional note indicating that the final product is also made from concentrate.
The production of fresh fruit juices requires high quality treatment of products, particularly during the pressing and pasteurisation phases, while the production of fruit juices from concentrate does not involve the same requirements.
I had tried to demonstrate that the label on a pot of honey should above all inform consumers about the origin and quality of that honey, in order to prevent honey imported from who knows where containing who knows what pollen from being confused with quality honey produced by our beekeepers.
Without these amendments, there would therefore no longer be any guarantee of the quality of honey, and consumers would no longer be able to distinguish between quality honeys from their region as opposed to industrial honeys from abroad, which have been subjected to the filtering technique for a long time.
Moreover, honey could, according to the directive, contain 20% pollen 'A' and be 80% from 8 types of pollen.
One could imagine a honey with 20% nectar A and the remaining 80% being made up of 8 different varieties of nectar. (Speech cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) After more than five years in the pipeline, we have finally voted today on the proposal for a Council directive relating to fruit jams, jellies, marmalades and sweetened chestnut purée.
I abstained on the joint resolution on the Bonn conference on climate change.
But it marks a new climb down in the face of supporters of the 'let the market decide' approach, which can only concern and not reassure 'citizens who are concerned about globalisation' .
The joint resolution is still quite ambiguous on this essential issue.
Paragraph 9 'regrets' the space given in Bonn to 'coal wells' and 'flexible systems '.
But paragraph 6 proposes that the 2003 conference on the climate should have these 'systems' as a theme (the international system of exchange of emission rights) rather than the essential public policies that are required to fight against climate chaos.
The simple fact that an agreement was reached in Bonn with Japan, Australia, Canada and Russia should not hide how far the content of that agreement is from responding to the urgency of the challenges.
Now, I have voted for this Cederschiöld report because one of the worst dangers threatening us is computer crime.
Bösch Report (A5-0280/2001) Mr President, I am entirely in favour of the activities of the European Ombudsman and what he has been doing over the past few years, as set out in this report.
The truth is that many European citizens do not know their rights, do not know what they can do on the basis of European directives and, above all, think that European directives and regulations are not European.
I therefore propose to the European Ombudsman to insist, and this Parliament to accept my request, that European directives and regulations are called 'European laws' when incorporated into national legislation.
I am happy to have been able to contribute through my vote in favour to this significant advance for European citizenship.
We were friends and we were chatting and he said to me: 'My dream, Mr Fatuzzo, is one day, when I am grown up, to become the European Ombudsman, because I want to be able to check up on what the European institutions do and, if there is any bureaucrat who is out of order, I want to be able to find that out and take action so that all the citizens of Europe have the chance to benefit from European laws' .
Rather than making the institutions and their operation more transparent, the function of the Ombudsman only serves to conceal the fact they are in no way transparent for the overwhelming majority of the population.
The proposal is aimed at amending Article 3 of the Ombudsman' s statute so that the Ombudsman also has access to classified documents within the EU.
Officials are thus obliged to defend the truth and their fellow citizens rather than to protect their own institutions.
This is a crucial improvement in terms of transparency and democratic control in the EU.
The Pensioners Party approves, and I personally have approved this report but I wonder when will we succeed in achieving what I have read in this report, and what is right, in Europe in terms of our fifteen Member States paying pensions?
I should like to take this opportunity to second the proposal of Mr Van Orden to put forward this man' s name for the award of the Sakharov Prize.
The orchestrator of this state terrorism is the 77-year-old dictator Robert Mugabe.
His Vice-President, Mr Joseph Msika, takes things even one step further.
It is becoming clear that Mugabe' s excesses are causing him to lose all credibility as a national and regional leader.
A few days before, his host, Mr Ghaddafi, had given him an oil loan of USD 360 million and a gift of USD one million for his election fund.
This crystal-clear joint resolution asks the Council and the Commission to take concrete steps against the criminal policy of the Mugabe regime.
The way in which he is now tackling it beggars all belief and is bringing his country to the brink of collapse.
Mr President, Parliament today will vote on its fifth resolution on Zimbabwe in the last 18 months.
If the Council and the Commission did not feel moved to act before, then it is certainly time to act now, before the Mugabe regime destroys all hope for what is potentially one of the most prosperous countries in Africa.
The political opposition to Mugabe's regime has been in the frontline of attacks from Zanu-PF militants.
In the last few weeks, many MPs and party officials have narrowly escaped death after violent attacks.
Mugabe's regime is a destabilising factor in central Africa and his human rights record is of international concern.
The economic collapse in Zimbabwe is pulling down neighbouring countries.
We must recognise that democratic norms, protection under the law and basic human rights have been abandoned in Zimbabwe for all elements of the population.
Morgan Tsvangirai, as the leader of the opposition MDC since 1999, personifies this courageous stance and the struggle for genuine freedom in Zimbabwe and deserves international recognition for his stance.
Mr President, after having plundered Zimbabwe during a century of colonial domination, after having exploited its working classes and despoiled its farmers of land, the United Kingdom has left a legacy of a situation in which the best land still belongs to a few thousand rich white farmers.
The feigned indignation of all those who, here, are protesting against the violence of Mugabe' s regime, seems, in these circumstances, to be above all a hypocritical way of defending a handful of privileged people against the right to live of millions of farmers in that country.
For our part, we express our protest against Mugabe' s regime, both against its dictatorial nature and its corruption, but also because that dictatorship continues to protect revolting social inequalities and the privileges of a limited section of society to which his clique and the rich white farmers belong.
We do not, however, associate ourselves with this joint resolution, of which we reject both the letter and the spirit.
We would also like to express our solidarity with the working population of Zimbabwe and our support for their right to take possession of all the land, without any repurchase or compensation.
It is very important for us to recognise that this resolution is being debated here today at a very important time.
It is an opportunity for President Mugabe to make the decision once and for all to step back from the brink, as Mr Van Orden has clearly said.
I would say to Mrs Maes in particular that one of the reasons the Council and the Commission have not wanted to take urgent action, as some in this Parliament would perhaps have wanted, is the danger that what Mugabe wants is an excuse to call a state of emergency in Zimbabwe so he can cancel the election, stop the democratic process and stifle the official opposition as well as any opposition from the press and media.
The defining moment will be on 8 October when the next General Affairs Council is due to take place.
Similarly we will have to look at the possibility of the suspension of development aid because that is how the Cotonou Agreement would suggest that we should proceed.
Mr President, there are 4 500 farmers of British, Dutch, German and Greek origin who own 8.3 million hectares of land in Zimbabwe.
Nine white farmers and 360 black farm workers have been killed in the chaos over the last few months.
Zimbabwe depends on the success of agriculture and the contribution of these farmers is vital to sustain its economy.
There is money available from the United Kingdom government under the Lancaster House Agreement and there is a willingness among the white farmers to give up 80% of their land to settle the black families.
Mugabe must accept such a solution.
In 1970, Tanzania nationalised sisal farms, businesses and real estate, killing its private sector.
My family has lived in Tanzania for 166 years, much longer than many white farmers in Zimbabwe.
We bought land from Deutsch-Ostafrika in 1876 and I still have a title deed.
We lost land and property through nationalisation without compensation and I know what that means.
Mr President, I was part of the observer mission that went to Zimbabwe, as was Mr Gahler and others here.
As the Members who have just spoken have pointed out, Zimbabwe is clearly in the grip of a serious crisis, which could lead to economic collapse and political conflict in extreme social conditions, bordering on a humanitarian emergency.
Our analysis is the same as that which most of you have made: the sole objective of the Zimbabwean government is to stay in power, even if that means ending up destroying a country that not long ago was considered to be one of the soundest economies and democracies in Africa.
The Zimbabwean government, which could have reasonably avoided this crisis, is therefore clearly responsible for this dramatic descent into hell.
The Union' s main objective is presidential elections in 2002, in the best possible conditions to enable change, as we say in conventional language.
The Union' s position, if that is the objective, should therefore be to seek a balance between, on the one hand, indicating our disagreement with the current development of the situation and, on the other hand, preventing it from serving as a pretext for declaring martial law, which would have the effect of delaying the elections that we want to take place.
With regard to what was said in your speeches on the implementation of Article 8, that is political dialogue (Article 8 of Cotonou), we approve the pursuit of political dialogue, while stressing, like you, that no substantial progress has been made in this dialogue in recent months.
As far as the following stage is concerned, which is the implementation of Article 96 of Cotonou, which we call consultation and adoption of appropriate measures, again in conventional language, the Council will look at this issue at the beginning of October with, of course, our participation, and we will decide then whether or not we will take this step.
With regard to the impact of this situation on development cooperation, we hope to be able to maintain the programmes that the Community funds in Zimbabwe, particularly in the health and education sectors, given the humanitarian and social nature of these programmes, in order not to penalise the population, which is already being heavily affected by the economic crisis.
All this is taking place, as you have all said, in an extremely worrying economic and social context.
However, the serious instability prevailing in the country, the economic crisis and the societal conflicts that are taking place there are an important factor in a situation of food insecurity that we think, in these conditions, is in danger of becoming worse.
It is therefore the interaction between the food situation, the agricultural shortages, in this case of cereals, the economic context and the political context, which contains the germs of a crisis that is probably even more serious than that which we are currently experiencing, and which we should do everything we can to avoid.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Regions where humans and animals have suffered from the foot-and-mouth epidemic.
In the United Kingdom, four million animals have been destroyed in connection with foot-and-mouth disease and a further one-and-a-half million because of welfare problems related to the crisis.
Mr President, Commissioner, in this outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, there are technical areas of shadow, political certainties and strategic questions.
Why this dogmatic refusal of a vaccine that is nevertheless effective.
Just as for a developing country, Australia, Canada and even the French army had to send vets to Great Britain.
The virus is spread across Great Britain and, following the removal of borders, it is also spread across France.
Doha would be a success.
Mr President, no crisis in Europe, and especially in the Netherlands, has had such an impact on public opinion as the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease.
We are importing food from these countries.
Mr President, I very much regret that this is the second time in six months that we are having to debate foot-and-mouth disease in this House.
Compare that with the estimated cost to the wider rural community of GBP 9 billion as a result of the foot-and-mouth epidemic.
We are urging the Commission to revise the EU strategy on defending by all means FMD status and to recognise that the culling and destruction of healthy animals is both inhumane and ineffective.
Mr President, I represent the region in the north-east of England which was the scene of the original outbreak and has just recently been affected by further outbreaks.
The reason is simple.
At its peak there were 40 to 50 cases a day.
He certainly seems to bring to the debate on vaccination an authority and conviction which far exceeds that of the current holder of the office, Professor David King, who only this morning in a radio broadcast said we could not be certain that vaccination would have done any good.
We cannot, on the one hand, say that the containment is too drastic because of the slaughter policy and, on the other hand, that it is too slack because it has let the disease take hold.
We did not anticipate effectively the extraordinary scale of animal movements, particularly of sheep, in February 2000 and later.
Finally a word to Mr Sturdy, who called for a European public inquiry.
This rubbish has to go somewhere and we cannot dump it in landfills because then the problem of improper processing will keep recurring.
To give a brief description of the current situation in the Union as a whole, no restrictions have been imposed in the Union as a result of foot-and-mouth disease, except in Great Britain, and that was on 25 June this year, thirty days after the slaughter and destruction of the last vaccinated animal in the Netherlands.
So in fourteen of the fifteen Member States of the Union, plus Northern Ireland, we have quite a favourable situation, which is the result of the implementation and effective application of measures to combat foot-and-mouth disease at Community level.
The present development of the disease is clearly passing through a critical phase.
On this point we shall be extremely careful, because the experience of Northumberland reminds us that the risk is still present, even in those areas where it seemed that the disease had been brought under control.
Speaking more generally, it should be emphasised, first of all, that this crisis has had major repercussions on the Community budget.
We are also working on a proposal regarding the identification and registration of sheep and goats, and on another proposal regarding the importing of animal products by travellers.
My last point is one that several Members have drawn attention to during our discussions, and that is the question of vaccination.
The system exists and it is at the disposal of the Member States, but it is not the Commission' s responsibility.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Republic of Mauritania Mr President, the abolition, in October 2000, of the main opposition party in Mauritania, the Union of Democratic Forces-New Era, and the arrest and subsequent sentencing, to five years' imprisonment after a summary judgment, of the leader of the Popular Front, Chbih Melainine, calls into question the fundamental principles of democracy laid down in the constitution of Mauritania.
In our opinion, the release of Chbih Melainine is a prerequisite for holding the elections in October, as is the reconstitution of all the opposition parties.
It is in order to allow all these political actors to participate that we are asking that the elections should be postponed.
According to an estimate by the American State Department a few years ago, there are still some 90 000 slaves in Mauritania.
As recently as 1983, this country was the last on earth to abolish slavery officially, but still does its utmost to keep the gruesome reality hidden from the outside world.
It is high time that the European Union opened the consultative procedure of Article 96 with Mauritania.
Mr President, Mauritania is a vast country and almost 90% of its land is desert.
I was impressed by what President Taya has done over the years in a country as poor as this.
As far as slavery is concerned, it is actually banned in Islam and Mauritania is a Muslim country.
What I shall certainly do is embarrass the government of Mauritania at the ACP Conference to make sure this practice does not continue and the opposition is allowed to operate freely so that there is accountability of the ministers.
It is better for the president of the country and the people of the country.
Mr President, the situation in Mauritania is actually getting worse and worse.
We are talking about a country that falls within the ACP framework in relation to the European Union and which, furthermore, hopes to move on from its current observer status to becoming a full member of the Barcelona process.
We are obliged to remind the Mauritanian authorities that it is impossible for the European Union to envisage, for example, that country acquiring full member status in the Barcelona process if democracy does not become a reality, if human rights continue to be violated and, what is more, if the date is maintained for the municipal and legislative elections which, as things stand at the moment, will take place this October without any type of guarantee.
I shudder to think about the situation of that one Member of Parliament who does not belong to the government party in an assembly of 79 seats, but I imagine that if any opposition Member were elected in these elections - which will not happen - he would probably soon be sent from Parliament to jail.
I therefore think that the European Union must implement the provisions of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
Mauritania lowers the already low average level of democracy and human rights in the Maghreb.
However, it is clearly just one more case on a continent such as Africa, where human rights are constantly violated.
Mauritania is a country where the permanent dictator, not the dictator of the moment, President Mauya Uld Sid'Ahmed Taya, has just torn up all the rules which, with the mediation of the European Union, the opposition and the government had established for proper elections, elections furthermore which have been delayed indefinitely.
Togo Mr President, two years ago, my first speech to this House condemned the situation in Togo.
In a complete violation of his previous undertakings, President Eyadema and his government are even thinking about amending the constitution so as to allow him stand for election again.
The French President, Mr Chirac, has to be hoodwinked to such an extent that he condemns Amnesty International instead of the human rights violations in Togo.
Crude misuse of power hampers development and perpetuates poverty.
The European Union quite rightly suspended aid as long ago as 1993, but the situation has not improved.
Togo is asking for financial support to hold parliamentary elections in October.
President Eyadema has announced that he will keep to the constitution and step down in 2003, but why should we believe someone who has lied for 34 years in order to stay in power?
Maintaining the suspension of aid is one thing, but I believe that we must ask ourselves whether a country like Togo still belongs at conferences of the ACS and the European Union.
Mr President, the resolution calls for the release of Yawovi Agboyibo, the opponent of the dictator, General Eyadema.
We support this resolution in that respect, but we wish to make it clear that those who approve the policies of the great Western powers are not in a position to be indignant now, because this dictatorship, which has oppressed the people of Togo since 1967, could not have persisted without the support of the great powers, and particularly of France.
Cambodia Mr President, Commissioner, it is clear that the political situation in Kampuchea is calmer at this moment than it has ever been and it is equally clear that the country is still a long way from being a real democracy.
Much support is still required on the slow road to democracy, and the local elections will be an extremely important moment in that process.
The Kampuchean People' s Party, which controls the country, is an old-style Communist party, which means that it as a party is directly or indirectly involved in everything, in every sector, at every level in that country.
In the last 20 years, millions of people have fled Afghanistan and, according to the UN human rights organisation, approximately 6.2 million Afghans are classified as refugees.
We therefore perfectly understand the almost 500 people which tried to flee, at risk of their lives, and came up against a brick wall erected by a country such as Australia, a rich country which could have taken them in from the outset without any problem.
I believe that we should acknowledge the courage of the captain of the Norwegian freighter, Arne Rinnan, who, without thinking of the consequences and led only by humanitarian considerations, immediately picked up these people, who were in danger of drowning.
In contrast, we must strongly criticise a country which, like any of our countries, is obliged to take in a ship which was sailing in it waters with almost 500 people in a situation as precarious as that of these refugees.
I know that it is not easy, that there are increasing numbers of refugees, that poverty is spreading and is the reason why many people are seeking a better life, but I believe that the attitude of Australia must not be imitated by any country towards any group of refugees who, under the protection of the United Nations Convention of 1951, are asking to be allowed to survive.
In fact, a former European Commissioner and Member of this Parliament, the current Greek Minister for the Merchant Navy, Christos Papoutzis, has highlighted the irresponsibility of the Turkish government in allowing a situation such as this to come about.
I believe that we must act in our own territory, and in the area of neighbouring countries, such as Turkey and Morocco, which are sending us illegal immigrants, and on an international level, by establishing regulations of a general nature.
I believe that international action is required in this case and I believe that this would be an excellent opportunity for the European Commission to implement an initiative, I repeat, not only in the closer area of our neighbours, but also on an international level, with a view to achieving the regulation of migratory flows and illegal immigration.
Mr President, in August the Norwegian freighter Tampa rescued 433 Afghans and four Indonesian crew members from a fishing vessel that had set sail from an Indonesian port.
The Australian government was perfectly entitled to exercise its sovereign right under the law of the sea to secure its borders by refusing the ship access to Australian waters.
Nor do its obligations under the 1951 Geneva Convention apply until an asylum seeker is actually present on its territory.
In Britain over 100 000 people claimed asylum last year and the great majority of these claims were unfounded.
But it remains profitable for criminal people-traffickers to ply their trade because appeals can be strung out for years and, even when unsuccessful, almost no-one is deported back to their country of origin.
Australia's problem is also our problem.
In fact we need to totally renegotiate the 1951 Geneva Convention and think again.
The prosecutor is demanding the death penalty.
Mr Patten, Mr Michel and also Mr Solana are acting to protect these people.
We are glad that after eight days of sitting under tarpaulins in the hot sun and inside containers, the Afghan refugees are now at least in reasonable conditions on board the ship on a long voyage to Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea.
It is creaking under the strain of the mass movement of 21 million migrants a year.
Attack on a train in Angola Mr President, the attack on a train, which caused the death of 260 civilians and injured more than 150 people on 10 August in Angola is unacceptable and deplorable, especially since, in the weeks that followed, several buses also came under fatal attack.
When he announced, on 23 August, his intention not to stand in the presidential elections, President dos Santos threw the ball back into the rebels' court.
In reality, of course, sitting comfortably on his diamonds, he wants only one thing: all the power.
This Parliament can contribute to encouraging all those in Angola tired of war and wanting a better future.
I lived in Cuíto and Huambo between 1989 and 1994.
The cold war is long since past and it is high time that the international community stopped pouring oil on the flames of Angola and contributed responsibly to peace, to dialogue and to a bilateral, simultaneous and immediate cease-fire.
Mr President, the appalling terrorist attacks that Mr Savimbi' s UNITA has been carrying out in Angola, first in Caxito, then on a train, and then on cars, schools and hospitals, warrant our sternest condemnation, because they mainly affect the civilian population.
Having said this, I should just like to say a few words about the motion for a resolution that we shall be voting on next.
Its approval, despite the odd provision that is not worthy of adoption and is not essential, would be a positive development in that it would enable the European Parliament to adopt its traditional position of aligning itself with the international community and with the other Community institutions on this matter.
Mr President, I wish to respond to a personal remark which I consider to be unacceptable and, in this context, insulting.
All these names and all these facts have been mentioned, in particular by Mr Rod.
We believe that the statement made in August by the Prime Minister, in which he mentioned the need to postpone the elections and proposed that the electoral code should be amended, which some Members have mentioned, is not good news and does not help to create a climate which is conducive to the conducting of transparent, free and democratic elections.
We are continuing to monitor the political and economic situation and we shall maintain our position, to the effect that we can render assistance to the electoral process by helping the government to create the necessary conditions, notwithstanding the suspension of our cooperation with Togo which, as you know, was decided on under the provisions of the Lomé Convention, which corresponds to what would now be Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
From this point of view, Mr Rod, we are already past the Article 96 stage.
On the question of electoral registration, Mrs Maes, the latest figures available to us indicate that the overall rate of registration is just over 80%, which is an improvement on the previous figures, though 100% registration has still not been achieved.
If I have understood you correctly, your speeches were not intended to put any particular third country in the dock, but rather to consider whether, in the context of the present system of international governance, there are any remedies that would enable us to handle this type of situation better.
Mr Medina Ortega, we share the desire which you and other Members have expressed for international instruments to be adopted which will be able to prevent and settle such cases, and also your desire at least to update and amend the 1951 Convention so that it can cope with the present situation, which is not the same as it was in the 1950s.
The High Commissioner for Refugees played an important role in dealing with the crisis involving the Tampa, and I believe that we should all encourage the Commissioner to put this type of problem on the agenda of the consultations which, following the Geneva Conference in December, should enable us to update our rules, because that is what they are, international rules.
We must also remember the importance of the protocols on trafficking in human beings which are annexed to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime of December 2000.
The Community is itself a party to those protocols which, when they come into force, after a certain number of ratifications, will improve the joint framework that we have at our disposal in order to combat such crime.
As far as the Union itself is concerned, and we really are concerned, as I have said, the Treaty of Amsterdam and the conclusions of the Tampere European Council provided the basis for a common policy on asylum and immigration.
Of course, this will not work without preventive measures in the countries and regions of origin.
No doubt we shall need fresh impetus at an appropriately high political level, probably at the European Council in Laeken.
Finally, on the subject of the attack on a train in Angola, there is not much that I can add.
We are absolutely determined to support the efforts being taken, in accordance with the Union' s common position, to find a political solution to the conflict in Angola.
We are therefore working towards implementing it, by supporting any proposal which seeks to support the initiatives being made by the African Union - and there are some - or by African regional organisations such as the Southern Africa Development Community, with a view to developing the systems which have been set up on the initiative of African countries in order to prevent and resolve conflicts.
I would remind you that we are continuing our humanitarian aid to Angola, which is substantial, and that we are consequently ready to adjust the nature and the scale of that humanitarian aid.
As you will remember, he said that I have manipulated public opinion, that I have manipulated the press, that I have sought to use this Parliament, and he referred specifically to the fact that I am Chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
One of the major problems is that not only regular armies lay the mines, but that terrorist and rebel movements also use them.
Landmines kill, every day and in many countries.
Landmines are a lethal threat daily in many dozens of countries.
The anti-landmine treaty of 1997 has been ratified by 19 countries and signed by 141.
Countries that have not yet signed include Russia, Yugoslavia, but also Finland, which uses mines to defend its border with Russia.
I should therefore like to call on the Member States to force present and future members, as well as countries that receive financial aid from the European Union, to sign the treaty.
Mr President, the European Parliament' s position against anti-personnel mines and in favour of their total ban has already been clearly expressed in various resolutions.
The result of Ottawa is due to the work of certain specialised NGOs.
I believe that at the next meeting of the contracting parties to the Convention which will take place in Managua, the European Union should contribute to ensuring that the Convention is signed and ratified by more countries.
Mr President, I will end by asking for recognition and support for the work of NGOs such as the initiative launched by the humanitarian organisation 'Geneva Appeal' and others, which are going to contribute to the disappearance of such a lethal and odious weapon as anti-personnel mines.
From this point of view, the Geneva appeal is an initiative with laudable intentions, but we must make sure that any future initiatives of this kind take place in the context of the considerable efforts which have already been undertaken by the international community.
This international campaign, in conjunction with a certain number of governmental and non-governmental agreements, has drawn up standards and action programmes which will supplement the international regulations of which the Ottawa Convention is an example.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
So far we have been incapable of responding to the long-term needs or shortages.
Mr President, the truth is that the region of Central America has been suffering for too long.
The European Union must behave with a solidarity which distinguishes it from others, not only by approving budgets for this circumstance, but, as has been said, also for the coming years, by approving important and essential budgets which will eliminate the causes and consequences of this drought.
I drafted the report on the reconstruction of Central America after Hurricane Mitch, and I have seen that the corruption in the area prevents aid from arriving directly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, every day we see horrifying images of new tragedies which desolate the world: people devastated, children dying from hunger and disease, refugees without refuge, immigrants wandering the world looking for an opportunity to live...
One of those cases filed away in our selective first-world memory is the situation in Central America and the dramatic effects of the drought which has been devastating it for more than three months.
El Salvador has declared a state of emergency and Guatemala just yesterday declared a state of public disaster, in a truly desperate attempt to combat hunger.
All of this in an area where an extremely high percentage of inhabitants live in poverty or extreme poverty.
The United Nations world food programme raised the alarm very recently, telling us that if the current situation continues, it will only be able to meet the needs of half of the affected citizens for barely three months.
I therefore draw your attention in particular to the recommendation contained in section 4 which, in relation to that in section 3, seeks to direct our decisions in the field of development aid towards the objective of combating the structural problems.
Only in that way, by investing in sustainable development in the most sensitive areas of the world, will we be able to prevent and alleviate as far as possible the effects of natural disasters, because we will have invested our aid and our resources in the structuring and strengthening of the population and we will have made them stronger so that they can endure the consequences of phenomena which not even we, in the first world, can prevent.
Mr President, I agree with what other Members have said.
In any event, we in the European Parliament delegation for relations with the countries of Central America were in El Salvador in July and were able to see the consequences of the earthquakes and of Hurricane Mitch.
In fact there is a very important European Union programme for the rehabilitation of institutes in that area; at the moment, however, the worst thing of all, which we were informed of in July, is what is happening as a result of the drought.
I believe that we must envisage two types of aid: immediate aid, to prevent starvation, and a more long-term aid, in order to work towards sustainable development; because the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that earthquakes, floods and droughts are going to become increasingly common, and in precisely the poorest parts of the world, which are least able to endure them.
Therefore, I believe that the European Union must use two approaches: immediate aid, which they requested of us when we were there in July, and more long-term aid, in order to prevent what is happening now from happening again.
Although the rains are due to return shortly, that should not prevent us from thinking about the real causes of these crises which, as you have all, I believe, pointed out, are due to cyclical factors but also, and above all, to structural factors, including the falling incomes from primary products, especially coffee, the probably inappropriate nature of agricultural policies, and increasingly difficult access for many rural families to production inputs, not to mention the poverty which is undoubtedly rife in all these countries.
With regard to monitoring, I should just like to say that the Commission and the Union now have a network of antennae which enables us to monitor the food situation in all the regions that are susceptible.
One of these antennae is located in Central America and will enable us to be alerted instantly so that we can intervene if necessary.
The heart of the problem, that is, the structural causes of the lack of food security in the region, is the real problem that we will have to face in the medium and long term, as some of you have pointed out.
Mr President, in the Spanish version of the resolution on the Afghan refugees off the coast of Australia there is an error, and I am pointing it out so that Parliament' s services may correct it.
This text simply needs to be modified in accordance with the other versions - I have seen the English, the French and the German.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the own-initiative report on 25 years' application of Community legislation for hill and mountain farming has arrived on the European Parliament's agenda in the run up to the International Year of Mountains in 2002.
Activities have therefore been planned over the coming year at international, national and local level to promote the sustainable development of mountain regions.
The main objectives of the International Year of Mountains are to create awareness and increase knowledge about mountain ecosystems and their dynamics and operation, to promote and maintain the cultural heritage of mountain communities and the maintenance and sustainable development of resources in mountain regions to safeguard the quality of life of the population now and in the future.
I think this communication should contain a comprehensive concept for the regions in question with regard to the period after 2006 and with regard to enlargement.
The forthcoming International Year of Mountains is an ideal time, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the specifics of tomorrow's proposal.
You, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour of my report, and more importantly you, Commissioner, and the Commission, by implementing the ideas contained in it can make a fundamental contribution to this development.
The maintenance and sustainable management of resources is very important in numerous regions of Europe.
The United Nations have rightly proclaimed 2002 as the International Year of Mountains.
Mr President, the Ebner report is going to offer the Commission a very good model to follow when producing its communication for the International Year of Mountains 2002.
However, amongst its many and, I believe, very valuable, proposals, I would like to draw your attention to certain issues which, on this forthcoming celebration of the silver wedding of mountain farming, should receive very special, and in some cases new, attention.
I am referring, firstly, to the role which should be recognised for women in this new multifunctional mountain farming.
This proposal appears in section 19 of the Ebner report, but if we want to do it well, Mr Fischler, coordinated approach is required.
Within the new agriculture of the mountain regions, women currently play many important roles, both in relation to agriculture and in relation to tourism, rural development, rural tourism, new technologies and in relation to craft-industry, commercial and economic policies.
Thirdly, Commissioner, I believe that compensation measures should be taken to prevent mountain regions receiving less structural aid than they receive at the moment as a result of enlargement.
All that the proposal to offset the reduction in Community support for these regions by applying national and regional measures means in practice is that the European Union will completely abandon mountain regions and will attempt to shift even the miserable and ineffective support of the last 25 years on to its Member States.
It is for these reasons that we shall be voting against the report, because we believe that the specific measures proposed, operating within the more general framework of Agenda 2000 and the so-called competitiveness argument will not only reverse, they will speed up the economic stagnation and desertification of mountain regions, with huge economic, social and environmental consequences.
Commissioner, without waiting for 2002 and its International Year of Mountains, we twenty Members who are still here all agree that we should protect hill and mountain farming, which is said to represent 20% of our land.
It is the Austrian model that the 2006 reform of the CAP intends to generalise throughout Europe, including the lowland areas.
We will regret it in 40 or 50 years from now.
We should return to this subject later and make firm proposals for the budgetary resources that we, as a Union, could use towards this end.
The first time was in 1983.
The second time, fifteen years later, I myself had the honour and the duty of bringing the problems of the mountains to this House, with my report on a new strategy for mountain regions, approved on 23 October 1998.
There is another factor we must protect and safeguard; the vital factor for the mountains, Commissioner, is and remains man.
Starting with the 1998 Santini report on a new strategy for hill and mountain farming and with the International Year of Mountains coming up next year, the Ebner report highlights the importance of mountain regions to the European Union.
The same rules apply to rural development and the common organisations of the market.
Finally, we should not forget, with reference to the Structural Funds, that 95% of mountain regions come under Objective 1 or Objective 2.
These mountain regions can all apply under current support rules and the Member States can tailor the measures needed to individual demands, be it in relation to transport or telecommunications networks, basic public services or support for economic activities.
Thank you very much Commissioner Fischler.
Basic education in developing countries The next item is the report (A5­0278/2001) by Mrs Kinnock, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on basic education in developing countries in the context of the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Children in September 2001 [2001/2030(INI)].
I was a teacher myself for 30 years, mostly in primary education so I think I am quite justified in having a passion about looking at the reasons for this crisis.
One hundred and thirty million - one in five - of the total number of children are not in any kind of primary education.
In these schools too the quality of their education is often affected by the fact that they are not taught in their own language.
Average incomes in a country mirror very clearly the levels of access to education.
The conviction that, by not dealing vigorously with the issue of education in the developing countries, we will not only fail to eradicate poverty, but that the gap between the rich and poor countries will increase, has certainly led us to place education at the centre of the global strategy for eradicating poverty.
In this respect, we have to recognise that the Dakar Conference on education for all represented a great step forward, but it is a step which will take us nowhere if action is not taken and if, in accordance with the decisions at Dakar, we do not quickly adopt a concrete world initiative directed towards creating strategies and mobilising the resources required to provide effective support for the efforts made on a national level - as one of the Dakar commitments states.
The European Union, as the main donor and insofar as it has made solidarity and the defence of human rights an essential dimension of its international action, has the responsibility to promote these strategies in close coordination with the other donors, including the Monetary Fund and the World Bank and with the participation of civil society and, with them, policies aimed at overcoming the obstacles which deny children access to a quality education.
And the European Union has the moral and political obligation to provide the financial resources necessary to achieve free education for all between now and 2015.
All of this can be done in accordance with the excellent proposals contained in the Kinnock report, which reflect both the practically unanimous feelings of the Committee on Development and the feelings of my group.
It will require making the developing countries themselves responsible and encouraging them, through persuasive measures if necessary, to fulfil the commitments given in Dakar and to give absolute priority to education.
I will end by saying that only in this way will it be possible for millions of children to exercise their fundamental right to education, an education which will allow them to open the doors to progress and one day become free men and women.
Incoherence and irresponsibility on the part of the developed countries which, despite their promises, have not only failed to increase their programmes in favour of education and care for children in the developing world, but in fact have reduced their efforts in that area.
And incoherence and irresponsibility on the part of the countries of the South which, apart from very few exceptions, are still neglecting the education of their youngest citizens in the face of other priorities such as military expenditure which, in the majority of cases, is still above what is invested in education.
The resolution which we are voting on should not remain, like so many others, as a worthless piece of paper.
This call for coherence and responsibility is a genuine demonstration that our Parliament should promote this issue as a European Union objective.
Furthermore, however, this report should serve as a reference for the action of the Union and many European States, members or candidates for accession, at the United Nations General Assembly which will take place in New York in a few days time.
Fortunately, fellow MEPs have already said much that is true.
The teachers must also be paid, they must be trained and they must receive a wage that enables them to survive in a decent way, so that they do not have to leave the children to their own devices because they must urgently earn something extra to at least give their own families some food.
The Commission shares the view that clear objectives need to be defined, that education aspects need to be included in the fight against poverty and that civil society needs to be involved.
The Commission is also involved in the working party set up to implement the framework for action set out in Dakar.
It is also promoting the objectives of education for all in its negotiations on the ACP countries' strategies for the ninth EDF.
However, the Commission does not in principle reject the idea of a global initiative, as provided for in the Dakar framework for action, even if the implementation methods need to be discussed in detail.
The Commission is very firmly in favour of paying particular attention to the education needs of girls in developing countries.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
However, even in European countries where there are laws to that effect, the free aspect is largely a formality, since it does not include the equipment that children need for school, which penalises children from poorer families, not to mention the overloaded classes and under-equipped state of schools in working-class districts.
Without breaking the poverty cycle, in other words without stopping the pillaging of poor countries and the impoverishment of their working populations, even the most well-intentioned speeches will remain speeches, and millions of children in poor countries will continue to be deprived of even a minimum education.
