Variations to the terms of marketing authorisations for medicinal products - Counterfeiting of medicinal products (debate) The next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: the report of Françoise Grossetête on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/82/EC and Directive 2001/83/EC as regards variations to the terms of marketing authorisations for medicinal products - C6-0137/2008 - the Commission report on the counterfeiting of medicinal products.
It must be made possible for medicinal products, whatever procedure is applied in authorising their marketing, to be subject to the same evaluation, approval and administrative processing criteria in the event of changes being made to them.
The pharmaceutical industry devotes a growing part of its regulatory work to managing these variations.
In the case of a large company, the number can reach 19 000.
Given that 80% of all human and veterinary medicinal products are authorised via national procedures, this revision will have a considerable impact on the pharmaceuticals market in the European Union.
Any one change to products authorised under national procedures in different Member States is therefore treated in a number of different ways in terms of the dossier to be submitted and the evaluation procedure.
My report therefore has as its main objective the simplification and harmonisation of the rules relating to these variations of marketing authorisations for medicinal products.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, honourable Members, today's debate takes place in the context of a development in the health sector that changes a great deal.
For this reason, it is very important that the proposal to be adopted here today improves the existing legislation in terms of simplicity, precision and flexibility.
I should like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Grossetête and all those who have contributed to her report for their work on this difficult dossier.
I understand Mrs Grossetête's impatience to see this proposal adopted, which I share, but in this case, too, of course, quality is more important than speed.
This represents a very serious threat to public health.
Parliament's very important resolution of 12 July 2007 contained a very significant statement on which I, too, base my deliberations, namely 'that counterfeiting of medicines is not a patent issue as such'.
This, in turn, will be a very ambitious, difficult task.
Products that have received only national marketing authorisation are not subject to current European legislation on variations, and are therefore subject to various specific national laws.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Grossetête for her work on this report.
The report by Mrs Grossetête is also connected with patient safety, and this is another issue we are discussing today.
This is not the case in the European Union at present, and we are conscious of a growing danger.
There are no simple solutions to this problem, and those who believe that patient safety and the safety of medicinal products are an issue only with regard to parallel trade - I glance up at the gallery, but it is probably a little too early for the representatives of parallel trade - take too narrow a view and insult my intelligence and that of my fellow Members.
This is something we must prohibit, and I am sure that parallel traders - for it is they who evidently believe we wish to threaten their livelihoods, which is not the case - will have enough intelligence to find an alternative.
Switzerland and Belgium have demonstrated that it is possible.
Two things are needed to this end: we must properly protect our borders, we need traceability systems and we must ensure safety in these countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my support for this report, which is perfectly in line with the commitment to better regulation that Europe has stood for for many years.
The new system of marketing authorisations for medicinal products will considerably simplify the procedure in the case of minor changes or new scientific discoveries and will signify a substantial easing of the technical and administrative burden on businesses.
I therefore warmly welcome the aim of this proposal to ensure that all drugs on the market are subject to the same criteria, including those drugs that have been approved purely at a national level.
The aim of the proposal is that all medicinal products, regardless of the procedure under which they were authorised for release onto the market, should be subject to the same assessment criteria in respect of the administrative process for approving changes.
The administrative burden and logistical complications are, however, a shared issue which we must resolve.
Member States cannot be called on to change their internal laws in order to fulfil this provision, but must rather be assisted in order to ensure that excessively short implementation periods do not impose a major expense on them. (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank my colleague, Mrs Grossetête, for her excellent report.
Accordingly, different Member States have been expecting partially different rules for such matters as the classification of the applications for amendments and in connection with the process for evaluating them.
It is important for the pharmaceutical industry that it will still be able, in future, to submit a complete, new application for a market authorisation for a drug that already has one, but which has another commercial name and a different summary of product characteristics.
I hope that Parliament will support Mrs Grossetête's report in tomorrow's vote and that the Member States later on this year will also support Parliament's views, so that the reform of the laws on marketing authorisations can be brought to a conclusion by the end of this year. (RO) Creating harmonised criteria for the approval and administrative management of any kind of variations to marketing authorisations for medicinal products will benefit patients as they will have access to better and safer products in the long term.
Bearing in mind that only 20% of medicines for human and veterinary use are authorised via Community procedures, this revision of the directive will have a considerable impact on the pharmaceuticals market in the European Union.
We need to create a simple, flexible legislative framework so that all medicinal products, whatever the procedure applied in authorising their marketing, are subject to the same evaluation and approval criteria.
I would like to say to the Commissioner that it is undoubtedly a fact that the current system of dealing with variations in the terms of marketing authorisations for medicinal products is unsatisfactory and, in many cases, works against the interests both of the pharmaceutical industry, but also - most importantly - of the patients themselves.
This is a straightforward case as far as I understand.
I would have thought that this is more a police case than a change-in-legislation case.
It will, in general, be easier to make small changes to medicines and release them under the same name, as mentioned by the previous speaker and, at the same time, it will be easier to change the name of a product if it is to be sold to treat a different pathology.
We must not allow ourselves to be misled by fine-sounding, but empty statements relating to patients and consumers. (CS) The proposed directive, which will greatly simplify the introduction of pharmaceutical products onto the European market for both human and veterinary use, is very good news for patients and also for the European pharmaceutical industry.
This is a very important subject since it concerns our health.
As Mr Verheugen stated, our population is living longer, which, of course, we are delighted about, but this is an issue set to grow in importance.
When this directive is implemented, the indications appearing on a medicine will be identical in all Member States, providing clarity and transparency for European users, whether they are patients, veterinarians or farmers.
This report marks a further step towards European integration. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mrs Grossetête on her draft report on variations to the terms of marketing authorisations for medicinal products.
Due account has also been taken of the interests of Germany and German pharmaceutical companies.
I also support the idea put forward by the rapporteur, Mrs Grossetête, concerning the need for a single procedure for authorising variations which will provide greater authority.
The original system for administering changes appears ineffective and unsatisfactory in view of new scientific knowledge and technological progress.
A new improved regulatory system will deliver benefits for all patients, for the approval bodies and also for the pharmaceutical companies. (DE) Mr President, I have a further two questions for Commissioner Verheugen.
This must be our starting point.
I should also like to draw attention to new principles.
We need a coherent approach based on the principle: 'Know your supplier, know your client.' (RO) In many European countries, the procedure for authorising medicines is clear and even well regulated from an official point of view.
Harmonisation in this area has become necessary, if not crucial, because without a single Community legal framework, variations concerning national authorisations will continue to be subject to national laws that differ from one Member State to another, as is the case at present. (EL) Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur and to make two comments in reply to the Commissioner.
As a result, research centres have moved to China and India.
I am absolutely not thinking of getting my hands on parallel trade, but one thing I would say is that all parties involved in the distribution of medicinal products must be subject to the same strict safety requirements.
Mr Verheugen, I would like you to know that when leaving here today, you will have Parliament's full support, and it is essential to convince the College of Commissioners that we must not waste any more time but at last take action against the counterfeiting of medicines.
Although medicinal products from the European Community are constantly faced with regulations drawn up by national governments and the Community throughout their entire existence, discrepancies between the Commission's regulations and the Member States' provisions have negative repercussions from a public health and administrative perspective, as well as in terms of the general operation of the internal pharmaceuticals market.
The purpose of this report is to make sure that all medicinal products marketed in the Community, including those authorised at national level, are subject to the same administrative approval and amendment criteria, no matter which procedure was used to authorise these medicines.
This proposal simplifies the administrative procedures for Member States and facilitates the harmonisation of evaluation and supervision requirements for all medicinal products.
