Interim Trade Agreement with Turkmenistan - Interim Agreement with Turkmenistan (debate) - The next item is the joint debate on: the oral question to the Council by Jan Marinus Wiersma, Erika Mann, Daniel Caspary, Robert Sturdy, Cristiana Muscardini and Eugenijus Maldeikis, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, on the Interim Trade Agreement between the EU and Turkmenistan - B6-0019/2009); the oral question to the Commission by Jan Marinus Wiersma, Erika Mann, Daniel Caspary, Robert Sturdy, Cristiana Muscardini and Eugenijus Maldeikis, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, on the Interim Trade Agreement between the EU and Turkmenistan - B6-0020/2009); and the report by Mr Caspary, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of the Interim Agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, of the one part, and Turkmenistan, of the other part (05144/1999 - C5-0338/1999 -.
author. - (NL) Mr President, it is good that we are today debating the European Parliament's position on the Interim Trade Agreement with Turkmenistan, something that this Parliament and the European Union have long kept on the back burner.
The Council and the Commission are looking for progress on this issue and they want the European Parliament to give its blessing or a positive verdict on the advent of this interim agreement, as that could help improve relations with Turkmenistan.
The second important argument put forward by the Commission is that, at present, we have no sound legal basis for our relations with Turkmenistan.
We believe that there must be real improvement in these areas and a trade agreement of this kind and human rights dialogue with Turkmenistan could help to achieve that.
Particular attention in relations with Turkmenistan should be paid to the fact that if there is no economic cooperation between the EU and Turkmenistan the standard of living in that country will fall.
I am particularly pleased that we are in a different situation today, even if the situation in Turkmenistan is still a long way from meeting our standards.
The education system still fails to come up to the standard that we want in order to educate people in an enlightened and, more importantly, informed manner in terms of democracy and human rights.
Also, the situation in the prisons and the question of political prisoners and Red Cross access to these prisons is still totally unsatisfactory and unexplained.
The European Union's Central Asia strategy adopted a while ago here in Parliament focuses on the Central Asian countries.
Turkmenistan is in many ways growing in importance.
Despite these changes, our contractual relationship with Turkmenistan has remained unchanged for 20 years.
The Interim Agreement, which was signed in 1999, provisionally applies the trade-related parts of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, also signed in 1999, for which only three Member State ratifications remain outstanding.
There are many aspects to the Union's relations with Turkmenistan.
These are all important areas which we need to develop in our own interests.
In addition, since the presidential elections in February 2007, Turkmenistan has engaged in a number of significant reforms, including constitutional changes.
This dialogue has also been matched by some important developments within the country.
The current contractual arrangement with Turkmenistan provides for only a rudimentary bilateral dialogue.
The PCA, once in force, would go further by providing for a fully-fledged political dialogue.
The Presidency is convinced that we need now to establish an appropriate legal framework for our relations with Turkmenistan, beginning with the Interim Agreement.
The Interim Agreement is the most effective way of ensuring that Turkmenistan makes progress in the various key areas which I have outlined, not least in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
I know that you share these objectives, and therefore hope that we can count on your support for taking this forward.
Furthermore, in September 2008 - again, for the first time - a visitor's permit was granted to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief, who concluded, I quote, 'individuals and communities still face a number of difficulties, although the situation has much improved since 2007'.
Due to these fears - which are quite legitimate - about the situation in Turkmenistan, Parliament has postponed its decision on the Interim Agreement.
In principle I share some of these fears, and I also recognise that Turkmenistan still has some way to go before it is fully compliant with international standards on democracy and human rights.
This collaboration is all the more important given the recent renewed engagement of the international community in Afghanistan and in Pakistan, and, in fact, regional conferences are due to be held very soon in the Hague and in Tokyo.
Since the regime change in Turkmenistan, we have increased our cooperation in this area.
To conclude, our relations with Turkmenistan must be shaped as much by our values as by our interests.
The agreement being discussed today is more than welcome as a means of accelerating economic cooperation between the EU and this country.
The difficulty arises because for the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA), Parliament will have to give its assent, whereas this is not the case for the Interim Trade Agreement because of our legal obligations.
We are fully aware of the facts, but I am certain you can find some form of commitment and look into further developing and exploring legal bases on which you can help our side to be on your side, because we all recognise how important Turkmenistan is and we have already given support with regard to other agreements.
Please recognise paragraph 9 of our resolution, which talks about the inclusion of the human rights clause in the PCA agreement.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I believe that we must try not to fool ourselves but realise that, although Valery Pal has been released, the Turkmen Government will continue to abduct, imprison and torture other people in Turkmenistan for thought crimes.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is already a year since this Parliament said very clearly and plainly what progress it considered necessary in order to be able to agree to the trade agreement between the EC and Turkmenistan.
The current President may be marginally better than the President he replaced in February 2007, but is he sufficiently better for us to agree to an interim trade agreement as a precursor for a partnership and cooperation agreement?
If that is the case, let us not pretend it is to do with an improvement in human rights.
I am nevertheless convinced that policies of suspending relations and isolation in respect of Turkmenistan show little promise.
Up to now, without hypocrisy, it is a state closed to monitoring by international organisations, which have not been able to enter the country for 10 years.
So let us avoid being hypocritical, let us make it plain ... (The President cut off the speaker) - Mr President, I just wish to agree very much with my colleague, Dr Charles Tannock.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I think it was a useful debate.
A conditional approach to the conclusion of the Interim Agreement negotiated 11 years is not an effective means of securing progress on human rights and democracy.
The Presidency is convinced that there is an opportunity now to engage with Turkmenistan, and that approach is the only effective means of establishing a frank dialogue on issues such as human rights.
A negative opinion from Parliament would be damaging to our nascent dialogue with Turkmenistan and would undermine our ability to secure progress in important areas such as greater respect for human rights.
We need to create a proper framework for our contractual relations, yet the Trade and Cooperation Agreement currently in force, being so limited, does not allow for that.
I would be absolutely agreeable to a political commitment from my side - from the Commission's side - to monitoring the human rights dialogue and reporting to the Parliament regularly.
This would be, in the trade agreement, a stepping stone for increased cooperation, and would take us a step further in bringing the framework for dialogue with Turkmenistan on to a par with the ones we have already established with other countries in the region.
I am also clear about the fact that it would set a precedent if the Commission and the Council were to agree to the demands which many of us have made today, even - and I say this quite clearly - though, in my opinion, these demands by Parliament are totally justified.
I therefore await - preferably this evening - an undertaking from the Commission that, if this monitoring shows that the situation in Turkmenistan has deteriorated and if Parliament passes a resolution asking the Commission to propose to the Council that this Interim Agreement be suspended, it will table a proposal to that effect before the Council.
