Impact assessment of the compromises reached in the Doha negotiations on NAMA and services at the end of July 2008 (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the impact assessment of the compromises reached in the Doha negotiations on NAMA and services at the end of July 2008.
I probably do not need to tell all honourable Members that, simply within the rules of the World Trade Organisation, if countries moved from applying their tariffs the way that they do at the present time to applying them in the way they are allowed to do under the rules, then the cost to trade would be something of the order of EUR 260 billion.
Within that agreement, the value is of the following order: the gains in the developing countries would be of the order of EUR 12-14 billion annually; there would be new access to emerging markets in emerging countries, such as China; we would have the opportunity in the European Union for new exports, diversified in new ways - for example, in chemicals and textiles - and in services there is a potential for EUR 14 billion of trade.
We look forward to the G20 on 2 April 2009 and the opportunity it affords world leaders in terms of looking to resolve the financial and economic crisis and having the opportunity to discuss again the need to complete the round.
Then there are the Indian elections in April or May, which of themselves will be the moment for an existing or a new government to return to this subject.
In conclusion, we are at the moment at a particular point where the need to complete this round is very obvious and very clear, and I look forward, on your behalf - as well as that of the Commission - to continuing my efforts to ensure that we do.
The one place Commissioner Ashton did not mention was the European Union itself, where we have our own European Parliament elections in June, and following that a new incoming Commission, in which I hope Commissioner Ashton will continue to serve as Trade Commissioner.
Even the experts admit, the gains that the poorest countries could have hoped for were well below the tax losses caused by the demise of customs duties in these same countries, duties that would have reached the sum of USD 60 billion.
Madam President, our questions have been framed with the intention of highlighting the benefits our citizens can expect from such a package of measures and what we are able to offer in such a package.
This is of particular importance as the European elections approach, and I hope we can count on you to keep this matter high on the agenda. (PT) In the context of this very serious financial and economic crisis, it is absolutely essential to make progress in concluding the Doha negotiations.
At a time of crisis, there is always a tendency to give way to the temptation of protectionism.
We must therefore clearly fight against the possible emergence of this protectionist temptation, because we know from history where that leads us.
That is why it is important to proceed with the multilateral Doha negotiations.
The role of the European Commission and of the European Union, in this case too, is precisely to restore Europeans' confidence.
There is also a crisis of confidence in Europe today in terms of the capacity for defence and political regulation of those who represent it, whether the Member States, the European Commission or the European Union as a whole.
The right path, in this case, is to guarantee a multilateral agreement which safeguards all our legitimate interests. (EL) Madam President, a strategic choice of the European Union and of the bourgeois governments, in the middle of the deep capitalist crisis - a crisis in the accumulation of capital and overproduction which is also infesting the Member States of the European Union - is to use the World Trade Organization as an important prop with an active role in imposing the full liberalisation of trade and commerce, privatisations and takeovers and the penetration of the European monopolies into new markets.
This sort of financial crisis results in a global depression.
If the door has been opened, other countries will discover that they can do something similar, given how bad things look.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak. (SV) I would like to begin by agreeing with the previous speaker that the Doha Round is extremely important, but I would like to add that it has probably never been more important than it is right now.
I believe that, precisely in the midst of this financial crisis, we have a greater need than ever before to show that the global trade system actually works.
This is happening in the area of services, financial services and the trade in services, in particular.
That is perhaps for another debate, but it exemplifies how, though we talk of globalisation as being a great thing, that has not been true in the financial sector.
This is about food production, and it is very important in the Doha round.
My colleague Mariann Fischer Boel has worked very hard to make sure that the European position on agriculture is secure.
Finally, on small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr Siekierski, it is very important that we are protecting our small businesses.
