Rare diseases (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Trakatellis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a Council recommendation on a European action in the field of rare diseases - C6-0455/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (EL) Mr President, this Council recommendation is very timely, because concerted action in the field of rare diseases is an absolute necessity, both at European Union level and at national level.
Although the incidence for each rare disease is very low, millions of people are affected in the European Union because these diseases are measured in thousands.
Therefore, as rapporteur, I propose that the Commission be asked to provide the implementation proposal at the latest by the end of 2012, since by this date the required data from Member States on expert centres and expertise on rare diseases will be at hand.
This has already been examined in the Bowis report and I believe that patient mobility is absolutely justified here, because there are no special centres or experts able to undertake the treatment of patients in all the Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rare diseases are dangerous and very complex diseases that threaten life or cause chronic invalidity.
The Czech Presidency believes that after the Council adopts the draft proposal on European action in the area of rare diseases there will be significant advances and improvements in the diagnosis of rare diseases, which is currently problematic due to the nature of rare diseases.
I believe that the European Parliament and the Council share similar views on this matter.
I would like to end by once again thanking everyone who took part in preparing the European Parliament report and particularly the rapporteur Antonios Trakatellis for drawing it up.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, I should like to thank all the honourable Members who were involved in the work by Parliament on the proposal for a Council recommendation in the field of rare diseases.
This means that, in the European Union, between 29 and 36 million people are affected or are likely to be affected by a rare disease.
The European strategy is supplemented by the proposal for a Council recommendation on action within the Member States.
There are still many ways in which European action can support the Member States in combating rare diseases, such as by improved identification and recognition of diseases, by supporting research into rare diseases and with mechanisms such as regulation of orphan medicinal products.
The rarity of these diseases creates challenges both from a scientific and an economic viewpoint.
I have to say, however, on behalf of my group, that there is one amendment in Mr Trakatellis's report that goes against this fundamental aim of helping patients.
Amendment 15 talks of how genetic diseases should be avoided and eradicated through measures such as genetic counselling and the selection of embryos.
We should therefore reject Amendment 15.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) I am grateful to Mr Trakatellis for his fine report.
We support Amendment 15, but we wish to delete the reference to the eradication of illnesses.
If these conditions are met, we are in favour of the amendment and call on everyone to support it, but the reference to the eradication of illnesses should be deleted.
During a hearing on rare diseases that I organised in Parliament last year with Eurordis - the European patients' association - I pointed out that it was up to us, that it was up to Europe, to place the bar very high for these patients who are pinning all their hopes on research, and this is what our rapporteur has done here by considerably enhancing the Commission's text.
The small number of patients involved in each country and the fragmentation of knowledge across the Union make rare diseases the example par excellence for which concerted action at European level is an absolute necessity.
The latter has allowed no more and no less than a doubling of the budget for scientific research - a miserly budget, I might say in passing: EUR 13 per year per citizen, compared with EUR 50 in France and EUR 57 in Germany, to take but two examples.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that we support helping people with rare diseases.
That said, Amendment 15 is completely unacceptable from an ethical point of view.
Amendment 15 must therefore be rejected in its entirety.
I support the rapporteur's position that this recommendation by the Council and the plan of action in its present form are insufficient, and that it is not possible to create a functioning programme in the European Union on that basis.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all MEPs for their comments, suggestions and observations.
The Council will of course carefully consider all amendment proposals from the European Parliament and based on this will assess their inclusion in the final version of the draft proposal.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate demonstrated the high level of interest in this important sector of public health.
Rare diseases are incontrovertibly recognised as a public health sector to which 27 different national approaches would be inadequate and inefficient.
First of all let me refer to Amendment 15 and to say that I wish to stress that ethical issues are outside the competence of the EU.
I recently hosted the launch of a book providing 12 000 patients' testimonials.
That engagement of citizens is a vital part of work in this area. (EL) Mr President, I should like to close by pointing out that, with improved access for patients to specialist healthcare, with support for research and development of effective treatment and with cross-border cooperation, we hope that patients will find the specialists they need more easily.
She demonstrated that she is very open-minded and prepared at least to adopt the amendment in which we call on the Commission to table a proposal by the end of 2012, so that we can proceed quickly in the field of rare diseases in Europe.
