Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the positive steps taken in the legislative area to promote equality between men and women, many shortcomings, inequalities and forms of discrimination still remain in the differing practices of the States Members, which must be resolved.
Following the adoption in 2000 of the Community framework strategy for equality between men and women and of the respective Community action programme for 2001 to 2005, there has been an effort to involve all Community policies and all Commission departments in this strategy, which has already produced some positive practical results.
Hence also the importance of the implementation of the Council recommendation of 31 March 1992.
It is not enough for the Commission to say that it adopted the report on this implementation on 4 February 1998.
Precise quantitative and temporal objectives must also be included in the employment guidelines, which are already in the process of being revised, and the Commission must submit a report on the matter, specifically on the measures to be adopted.
There is also an urgent need to establish goals to be achieved in realistic and measurable stages in the fields of intervention envisaged in the Community framework strategy on gender equality, in order to ensure real practical progress in all areas, bearing in mind that there are still many infringements of legislation on equal treatment between men and women.
We must also insist on making improvements in line with other existing directives, specifically those concerning the safety and health at work of women who are pregnant, or have recently given birth or are breastfeeding and the equal treatment of men and women in legal and professional social security schemes.
We should therefore welcome the fact that the Danish Presidency has included this in its programme in order to be able to make progress in solving these problems.
I also genuinely hope that the proposal for a directive on equality based on Article 13 of the Treaty will be presented here.
During a meeting of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities of this Parliament in April, Commissioner Diamantopoulou explained this strategy once again in the penetrating and convincing manner that is so characteristic of her.
I should particularly like to mention the initiative to develop policy within the gender dimension of foreign policy.
We are only too aware, as other speakers have said, that we have a long way to go in terms of gender equality within the EU institutions, as well as in society as a whole.
The rapporteur has addressed these issues in a very focused way and gives very clear guidelines to the Commission on the kind of measures that Parliament would like to see adopted.
I would also like to mention some of the new Commission proposals noted in this report, such as the conference on rural women to be held in October.
This is extremely important given the crisis that many of our rural areas have suffered, particularly in the past 18 months and the specific needs of women who live and work in rural areas.
Equality in foreign policy and international relations is again a vital issue.
The work programme for 2002 is more developed and ambitious than this year and hopefully on the basis of this report we can make significant progress.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for her work.
This would enable us to keep the situation more under control, making the Member States accountable and taking more effective measures to secure all the conditions necessary for a more balanced participation of women both in the work place and in government, while attempting, moreover, to promote a responsible social assistance policy for working women - in other words, facilities for the care of children and dependent persons - so as to make it genuinely possible for women to reconcile professional and family life.
The proportion of women involved in decision-making processes scarcely reaches 30% in most countries, and the institutions of the European Union, with women represented in between 13% and 30% of positions, are not exactly the best of examples.
Here, as with other issues, such as the job market and the entire legal framework on working conditions, the Commission has objective difficulties in monitoring the application of legislation.
There is also a tendency for local labour markets to become a kind of leftover concept referring to rural areas or weak sections of the economy and the social economy.
I would also like to emphasise the importance of these local labour markets.
As you can see, there are many strong social and economic reasons for focusing more on local labour markets.
Mr President, this report received a unanimously favourable vote in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which demonstrates not only the consensus on the importance of strengthening the local dimension of the European Employment Strategy, but also the value of the work of the rapporteur, whom I shall take this opportunity to congratulate.
This initiative proposes developing local labour markets in order to achieve high levels of efficiency and quality with regard to job creation and to deal with aspects such as gender equality, the social dimension, economic development, innovation and the information society, as I have stated in the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
Equally, the Member States must involve local employment agencies in the processes of decentralising the European Employment Strategy, given the physical proximity of these bodies and their better knowledge of the situations of the local labour markets.
In order to achieve the objective of equal opportunities within the European Employment Strategy, we must strengthen the financial instruments of Community initiatives, such as EQUAL, the European Social Fund, the ERDF, and in local actions.
Mr President, Commissioner, congratulations to Mr Schmid on a very good report on the Commission communication 'Strengthening the local dimension of the European Employment Strategy?.
and it is with that in mind that we want to support Mr Schmid's report.
Mr President, Commissioner, I also wish first of all to extend a big thank-you to Mr Herman Schmid for the splendid work he has done on his report.
The Commission has promised to keep us up to date on the utilisation of the appropriations at local and regional levels in the framework of Article 6 of the European Social Fund, for which EUR 40 million have been set aside for this year and next year.
It is important for Parliament to monitor developments within this high-priority area.
I am also looking forward to a situation in which open coordination involves local and regional levels and in which the new National Action Plans and Joint Employment Report tell us what is happening at those levels.
No, the open coordination of employment policy should be aimed at giving elected representatives a better basis for decision-making and voters more knowledge of the options we have in the area of employment policy.
The aim of these proposals is not to combat this tragic phenomenon but to bring employment and social agencies and local authorities within the liberal policy of the European Union.
We categorically oppose these policies and are fighting alongside the workers for local authorities and local social agencies for the masses which express the real interests of the people and which the workers can use to weather the neo-liberal storm.
The aim of promoting labour participation for women and creating equal opportunities for different groups throws up new dilemmas.
The acquired right of women and men to choose a role in caring for the family and extended family, is a great privilege in our western society.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor this morning as a new and very recent non-attached Member, having been expelled from the Group of the Party of European Socialists at the request of French Socialist Party.
We must also implement national social policies which put employment above all other considerations.
And developments in recent months have meant that many European countries are further away from reaching this goal.
They will allow jobs to be created for people who are often on the margins of society or in difficulty.
The fight against a rampant form of globalisation, a Europe that is purely liberal and national policies subjected to stock market and finance injunctions affects the success of local employment policies.
I am sure that the rapporteur is aware of these issues, but I wanted to use my speaking time this morning to repeat these very clearly.
In considering the labour market as a vertical structure from the European, national, regional and local points of view, nobody doubts the role of the local market - perhaps, quantitatively, one-third of total employment - and this local dimension takes on particular significance in rural and peripheral areas.
In this regard, it can and should act as a tool to keep people in certain areas and can play - and I believe it must play - an important role with regard to the most socially vulnerable groups.
Perhaps all that is needed may be to convince a company - sometimes the largest in a city - that incorporating workers from socially disadvantaged groups into that company is just as important as sponsoring a club - perhaps a football club, since the World Cup has just ended - and also convincing it that this attitude is probably more sensitive and, at least locally, also more profitable, from the point of view of advertising and promotion.
Furthermore, where one or a few companies dominate the labour market in a given sector or area, they have the opportunity to diversify and provide greater guarantees for society as a whole.
I do not want to end without referring to the importance of the link between local employment initiatives and health and safety at work.
Good communication between the local authorities and other authorities can also be a weapon in the battle to lower the accident rate.
If we are serious about breaking the cycle of poverty in Europe, then we have to address this issue.
Mr President, I would also like to add my voice to the chorus of congratulations for Mr Schmid on his excellent report and the superb cooperation in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
At the same time, we in the union have a large number of unemployed people who we are unable to use.
The point of the European Employment Strategy is, of course, to create national action plans on employment and the need for regional and local planning has very quickly become apparent, especially as new conditions on the globalised market and the new definition of isolation - when an area is remote from the centre and when it is not - have changed this dimension with the advent of the information society.
And the new way of thinking about production models and employment and in companies has quickly generated a need for local strategic planning and local action plans on employment.
A second factor is the Commission's support for local agencies wishing to take part in these programmes, so that they can access the corresponding funding mechanisms.
And of course, the Commission is creating new procedural tools to support these local action plans.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Although the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, is indeed the body competent to define and negotiate the core labour standards, the European Council of October 1999 reiterated that the Union should strongly support the protection of core labour rights.
The role of the European Union in the WTO has thus been particularly highlighted.
The second guideline action concerns development policies.
The European Union must develop an integrated approach for its policies and encourage a coordinated aid for promoting core labour standards.
The third point relates to stepping up European efforts in its regional work and in the new regulatory areas which are being established throughout the world in order to adapt the promotion of core labour standards to local realities.
The ILO is working on this and genuine synergy might be developed here.
In our view, Commissioner, this communication is a step forward and should herald a change in the working methods that the European Union must develop with third countries, methods which, in particular, show more respect for these countries' problems.
The Committee on Industry welcomes the European Commission's moves to place the issue on the agenda of international bodies, in response to calls by the European Parliament and the trade union and citizens' movements, as expressed in Seattle, Genoa and elsewhere.
It notes that no progress was made in Doha and calls on the European Commission to revise its strategy and on the European Union to intensify dialogue with international organisations.
Finally, we call on the European Commission and the Council to promote compliance with other labour rights, such as social security, the right to stable employment and prevention of accidents at work.
I have taken the initiative of repeating these points in Amendments Nos 9 to 12, which I urge you to support.
European legislation is often poorly perceived by the public and we therefore demand that greater account be taken of people's interests, particularly to improve social governance and working conditions in the Member States, but also in third countries.
In the Programme of Action, governments committed themselves to 'safeguarding and promoting respect for basic workers' rights, including the prohibition of forced labour and child labour, freedom of association, freedom to organise and bargain collectively'.
Promoting core labour standards means preventing third countries from being exploited by rich countries.
At the Nice European Council, the European Union endorsed a social agenda which promotes the concept of quality - in employment, in industrial relations, and in working conditions - as the driving force for a thriving and inclusive economy, with more and better jobs.
Firstly, whilst we very much welcome the Commission's commitment to the inclusion of core labour standards in the enhanced GSP and in its trade agreements - we have seen evidence of that already in the South Africa trade agreement and the Cotonou Agreement - we stress in paragraph 11 of this resolution that new emphasis must be placed on practical implementation.
For too long the human rights and democracy clauses in the EU's international agreements have committed us to the finest ideals, but they have not been subject to monitoring, reporting and systematic dialogue between the parties.
Secondly, as we say in paragraph 12, that implementation has to be part of development cooperation programmes too - not just fine words in country strategy papers but real, quantifiable programmes, assisting developing country governments to establish and operate effective labour inspectorates and giving direct aid to developing country trade unions and other civil society and watchdog groups, to provide an independent voice in tackling abuses such as child and forced labour.
It is true that gender forms part of the ILO's core labour standards because the non-discrimination principle and the principle of equal treatment are, after all, enshrined in it.
This is, in fact, the reason why the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities proposes to incorporate studies on the gender dimension as an instrument.
It is our expectation that private initiatives and effective public quality control will represent an impressive contribution by the EU to giving core labour standards a proper place in the new global architecture.
Secondly, third countries also need to be prevailed upon to adopt ILO model agreements.
It is for this reason that my group highlights the special role of employers' associations and trades unions in promoting core labour standards, which are so important.
I should like to stress this within an EU context, because I have noticed that when we were discussing this report in committee, some fellow MEPs had no, or hardly any, idea about this.
Globalisation and free trade are at times presented as prejudicial to social development in the world, but I basically think it is the opposite way around.
For the developing countries in particular, free trade is the way out of poverty and social deprivation.
Unfortunately, not all countries share our view of workers' rights.
The report places the emphasis on improving relations between the European Union and the International Labour Organisation, but also on the need to respect the core standards declared by this organisation.
Lastly, the report emphasises the essential and positive role of trade unions working to promote core labour standards within the context of the World Trade Organisation, and also stresses the importance of the role of non-governmental organisations.
My group tabled amendments to this end.
This very diverse movement will put together proposals with a view to reform, in particular, world trade rules and international financial institutions, in order to achieve a more supportive form of development.
I think that this could be the opportunity for the European Union to listen to and support these proposals.
The fact that major conferences, such as Seattle and Doha, have been unsuccessful also implies the failure of the major organisations which are at world level involved in the economic processes, the distribution of labour and wealth, and the social processes on this planet: the United Nations, the WTO, the International Labour Organisation, but also our own European institutions.
Political authorities and institutions, including the European Union, have helped remove the barriers to the globalisation that had been made possible by the development of our western technology.
Hand in hand with this economic buoyancy, however, go sustainable development and social cohesion.
In the European Union, we benefit from a social model - the European social model - that has been developing for the past 40 years and which has given rise to what we call our 'social acquis?, an important legacy, which includes the free movement of workers, gender equality, health and safety at work, the fight against social exclusion and poverty, etc.
These principles have also been given form in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the first chapter of which concerns dignity and the fourth concerns solidarity.
These new policies must in no way constitute a barrier to those practices and ideas, but rather, must contribute to social development and to promoting respect for fundamental rights.
In the terminology or ideology of the ILO, freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the prohibition or abolition of all forms of forced labour, the elimination of child labour and the absence of discrimination with regard to employment, have been described as fundamental rights.
Commissioner, I believe that the application of these rules and their distribution, which should act as an important model for the candidate countries, must constitute a priority for the Commission in its interinstitutional cooperation with the Council and the Member States.
Europe needs to act as a global standard and driving force, using international agreements such as the Cotonou Agreement to actively promote equality of the sexes, not just for reasons of fairness, but as an important factor in limiting poverty and achieving a viable economy, social development, greater democratisation, stability and peace.
Mr President, this report claims to promote core labour standards, to improve social governance, and even to create a better framework for globalisation.
Child labour, which you condemn, exists - as you are well aware - since a number of large corporations practice this through third party sub-contractors, in their factories that have been relocated to poor countries where women and children are horrifically exploited in return for a meagre wage.
In reality, you do not govern very much at all.
In a recent report by the ILO, it is estimated that 245 million children are involved in economic activity throughout the world, of which 180 million perform the worst forms of labour, in other words, labour that puts their physical and mental health or their morality at risk.
In the developing countries, 10 million children work in export-related activities; they work, therefore, albeit indirectly, for multinational companies.
Mr President, double congratulations, to the Commission on its initiative and to the rapporteur for breathing new life into this report.
Global society has lost no time breaking down barriers to trade and even less time setting new standards for global trade and, at the same time, not just averting new regulatory standards on social matters but equating development in third countries with unbridled privatisation and market liberalisation.
However, even these organisations talk in their own reports of how these programmes have failed on the social front.
The philosophy of abolishing workers' rights and of forced labour which prevails in third countries must be reversed.
I should like to ask the Commissioner two questions in this respect.
People are still being abused in our own countries.
Just think of child labour or domestic slavery.
My second question is about the cooperation agreements with third countries, to which clauses were added recently concerning respect for fundamental labour standards.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate, however briefly.
I thank the rapporteur for accepting two of my amendments in particular.
All of us need to be much more positive and proactive in this regard.
The previous communication was on local employment planning and, as the interventions by numerous honourable Members have demonstrated, impoverished workers in a third world country can hold workers in a region of Europe hostage.
And that is the problem with the development of global economic governance, which liberates trade and capital without any accompanying global social governance.
It is important for Parliament to support the financial dimensions of this collaboration between the Commission and the ILO.
I also think that the high-level global committee on the social dimension of globalisation set up in a global agreement under the auspices of the ILO to address and propose innovative ways of improving governance at global level was an important step.
Another step needed is to promote the greatest possible cooperation between the ILO, the World Trade Organisation, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the two United Nations Conferences on Trade and Development.
As far as the Member States and individual bilateral or multilateral agreements are concerned, the Commission proposes that the social dimension and social or core labour standards be taken into account in all the relevant sectors of the European Union (trade, development, foreign relations and social issues).
The Council will be adopting 13 amendments from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, while a compromise has been reached on all other amendments.
The compromise amendments have been tabled on behalf of the EDD Group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the PSE Group, because only those groups were represented on 26 June, but these are also backed by other groups.
I should also like to thank the 7 Council presidencies with whom I have teamed up, the European Commission and Eurostat, for their excellent cooperation.
The amendments as tabled in the compromise package should increase the quality of statistics.
Data collected on complicated issues such as agricultural waste and waste recycling will benefit particularly from this.
The Commission has also been very well aware of the fact that an equilibrium had to be found between the important data requirement and the minimisation of the burden on respondents.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I wish to withdraw our support for Amendments Nos 68 and 69.
The Council, however, did nothing to meet us halfway, and my understanding of the codecision procedure is not that it involves conceding negotiating points at first reading stage without getting anything in return.
Regarding Amendment No 14: Mr President, under Amendment No 14(2)(f), I should like to add the following words after "seagoing vessels": "inland waterway vessels".
I would like to point out that in the second part there is a technical error in the English version.
This should therefore be corrected: 76 instead of 69.
Mr van den Berg, this problem has already been pointed out by Mr Lagendijk.
In accordance with Article 95 of the Treaty on European Union concerning the internal market, the Machinery Directive must serve to promote the free movement of goods.
Amendment No 12 goes a long way in its efforts to combat racism and xenophobia.
The Swedish constitution provides robust protection for fundamental freedoms and rights.
We shall not support a restriction upon, or change to, our constitution.
The proposal aims to approximate rules on criminal matters - and sanctions - in the Member States, using Articles 29, 31 and 34(2) of the Treaty on European Union as a basis.
However, these articles do not confer this responsibility for combating racism. 2.
Therefore, the representatives of democratic political groups have a duty to assert their commitment not to join together with a political coalition, nor with groups or parties which entertain ideologies or proposals that could undermine the democratic principles on which our political system is based.
The Ceyhun report is a further step towards moral totalitarianism.
Striking a balance between these freedoms and effective work against racism and xenophobia is, therefore, difficult.
These two statements - the first, unilateral in nature, made by Ireland, and the second made by the Council which takes account of the former (or takes note of it, depending on the language version) - seem to guarantee each country's freedom of choice in terms of security and defence policy in general, and in terms of each process in particular.
Unfortunately, I am unable to continue on this subject here, since the European Parliament's administrative service has decided to cut down every explanation of vote that exceeds 200 words.
Consequently, despite the fact that we voted in favour of certain points, such as the amendment condemning the actions by the Spanish authorities at the Spanish-Portuguese border, we have voted against the joint motion. . (EL) The European Council in Seville added an extra course to the walls around fortress Europe by taking measures to strengthen xenophobia and racism and conceal the cruel liberal policies of the ?U and the Member States, making scapegoats of immigrants and their countries of origin.
The Heads of State and Government, haunted by the election results in favour of the far right, have adopted a vast and repressive arsenal of security measures but have not tackled the underlying causes of immigration, nor even attempted to find other solutions apart from extradition for immigrants residing and working in Europe.
It is rather paradoxical that, at the same time, in Seville, 450 illegal farm workers, most of whom are Algerian, occupied the university demanding to receive the correct paperwork for their situation.
The Seville Summit has done nothing to solve the financial problems which stand in the way of EU enlargement, and failed to reach agreement on 14 EU agencies for which a chair is yet to be found, but has once against spoken out against immigration without offering a solution.
The clear position of the Council on the need to strengthen the component of the outermost regions in the Union's policies, given their specific characteristics should also be noted, because of its importance and significance.
Unfortunately, in the last two years, neither the Portuguese nor the French presidency, which at that time was run by socialists, gave any new boost to this important aspect of the Treaties - even though Portugal and France are, in addition to Spain, the Member States that have outermost regions.
We shall pay close attention to developments in this area by the end of the year. . (NL) Like my group, I have voted against Amendment No 1 tabled by the ELDR Group, because it is not within Parliament's remit to prescribe to national parliaments how they should deal with the forthcoming enlargement treaties.
But this wealth is monopolised by a small number of large corporations which not only refuse to part with the slightest amount in order to help those members of the human race that are suffering, but continue to increase their wealth at its expense.
The EU and the Member States could have shown, not only with words but also through action, their commitment to the fight that the United Nations has embarked on in order to end poverty and hunger in the world.
Little progress has been made in the intervening six years towards the objective proclaimed at the previous summit in 1996, that of reducing the number of the world's starving from 800 million to 400 million by 2015.
The proposals of the FAO Summit in Rome appear to follow this line and all the participating countries are committed to them.
Mr President, it was a matter of great satisfaction to us all that the Medina Ortega report was adopted by such a decisive majority.
Many people in the European Union - and certainly many of my own constituents - have had serious complaints about fraudulent behaviour and mistreatment at the hands of sharks operating in this market.
Mr President, like Sir Neil MacCormick I welcome this report, particularly now it is amended to give it more teeth.
It is important to remember that, in terms of the approach to the citizens of the European Union, it is our ability to take action on issues like this which is very important so that people recognise that they are part of a citizens' Europe and that if they have problems in one country, they can make representation through the legal system properly.
My amendment, which is, in fact, backed by the Organisation for Timeshare in Europe, has, to my great regret, not received sufficient support from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
It is precisely against this cross-border fraud that measures that are the same across different European countries are needed.
It is also significant that the report emphasises the fact that responsibility for monitoring the implementation of Community legislation lies primarily with the Member States and must continue to do so, albeit with greater cooperation and supervision and not involving total centralisation.
Fishermen must be involved in framing and enforcing the rules within a system of zonal management, a system that will make these rules more acceptable and enforcement more effective.
For effective monitoring and control, there must adequate budgetary and human resources.
I therefore urge the Commission to take these concerns on board and ensure that there is a level playing field.
This should serve as an example in the other Member States.
I would emphasise, in particular, the need to draw up a strategy that sees globalisation as a contribution to social development and respect for fundamental rights.
It is worth emphasising once again the importance of the issue of gender equality.
The solution is seen as the EU manifesting itself as a superpower in order to be able to enforce better rules.
The trend towards greater economic interdependence and globalisation is a reality with which we must all contend.
The call for ratification of the ILO conventions in applicant countries as well as third parties is a desirable concrete means by which to ensure that the ILO is taken seriously.
Lastly, I welcome the call for more dialogue and increased issue linkage between the ILO and other international organisations, such as the WTO and the World Bank.
The Commission has continued to work with the people of Somalia, who have received an average of EUR 30 million a year under programmes run by European non-governmental organisations and United Nations agencies.
In response to calls for a representative council of the parties to be set up, I should point out that the Commission and Member States have already expressed their joint support for a council to be set up under the IGAD.
Even though it is not directly involved in organising the reconciliation talks under the IGAD, the Commission feels that regional administrations representing sections of Somali society are included in the important agencies which need to work on settling the conflict in Somalia.
Now, with this Transitional National Government in place, we can discuss Somalia, in the knowledge that we still have quite a long way to go along what is an extremely tortuous path.
I believe that Somalia is the only country in the region which is in this situation.
If these goals were achieved, Somalia would be in a position to dialogue with the other countries in the region with a view to setting in motion a vital economic process.
I believe that precisely this regional element can create cooperation within the region, encouraging countries such as Somalia, which need help and comprehension but which also need to take courageous decisions which will ensure the full participation of all the regional authorities, to follow the example of other countries in the region.
Mr President, clearly, a joint motion for a resolution can only call for a peace process and commit the European Union to monitoring the political and military developments in the country.
Our document welcomes the initiative to organise a conference, although it is impossible to know as yet whether all the parties will agree to sit down at the same table.
I would like to end by pointing out that the resolution warns Europe that the Somali question could have a disastrous impact outside the country and informs the Somalis too that the world is in one way or another attentive to their problems and willing to help them.
The Somalis are fighting each other more than they do other governments in neighbouring countries in order to reunite Somalia.
We know all too well since 11 September what the implications of that could be.
Contrary to the request expressed in paragraph 8 of the motion for a resolution for the European Union to help the national transitional government establish its authority across Somalia, I call on the Council and the Commission not to jump to any conclusions before the Conference.
I learnt that in the old flag there were five stars, one for each of the five Somali nations: French Somalia, which is now Djibouti; the British part of Somaliland, which is now part of Somalia; the British part of Kenya, which was made up of Somalis; the Italians with southern Somalia, which is now very much Somalia; and the Ethiopians in Ogaden.
It is the European Union's duty to help all the Somali nations.
In 1996 Somalia ranked 172 out of 174 countries on the UNDP's human development index.
We have over 100 aid agencies working in Somalia.
As the Commissioner has highlighted, the European Union and the Member States are the largest donors to the area, giving some EUR 60 million in all, compared with EUR 26 million from the Americans.
But let us also remember the Somali diaspora, which brings back some EUR 400 million per annum to the country.
Yet the average lifespan has fallen from 48 in 1990 to 45 in 1997; infant mortality is 125 per 1 000 live births; one in eight babies dies in the first year; 4 000 women die in childbirth every year.
The worst of the crisis is in southern Somalia, in central areas such as Galcaio, which was devastated at the peak of the troubles and is now being rebuilt, even with street lighting being reinstalled.
So our task must be to support aid and sustainable development projects and to look for political solutions.
The next item is the joint debate on the following two motions for resolutions: B5-0405/2002, by Mrs Almeida Garrett, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Mr Mendiluce Pereiro, Mr Lage and Mr Colom i Naval, on behalf of the PSE Group, Mrs Isler Béguin and Mrs Maes, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Mr Miranda, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group and Mr Van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, B5-0423/2002, by Mr Ribeiro e Castro and Mr Queiró, on behalf of the UEN Group on Angola.
We have made our priorities clear in the motion for a resolution that we endorse and support: we must provide emergency humanitarian aid; we must contribute to the consolidation of peace, which includes turning UNITA into a political party and integrating its members into national life; we must support democratic conciliation, seeking to ensure legitimisation through democratic and free elections which respect fundamental freedoms, specifically the freedoms of information, association and expression, and we must pursue economic consolidation and social reorganisation.
As we have already said in this Chamber on numerous occasions, Angola is a huge country with the potential to assert itself as an influential and important regional power and thereby to contribute to the democratic stabilisation of the entire region and to its economic and social progress.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, almost thirty years ago now, everything seemed to favour the emergence of a new nation in Angola: the immense size of its territory, its fabulous natural resources, its small population and its network of small towns spread across the entire country.
The international community and the European Union in particular must spare no effort to consolidate peace, to promote democracy and to save millions of people who are exposed to hunger, disease and poverty.
The motion for a resolution that we will be approving today shows that the European Parliament has not forgotten Angola.
The European Parliament wants Angola to be a land of peace and of progress, a land and a country that is part of the international community.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it now seems that the regeneration of Angola and its people has taken on a positive and long-lasting character - in the same way that the tragedy caused by this conflict was appalling and endless.
I shall therefore refer firstly to the new and auspicious political situation we are seeing in Angola, where finally, following decades of war, peace seems at last to be irreversible.
This is why I shall focus on some guidelines which I believe are crucial at this time: the need for the international community and, therefore, the European Union, to consider humanitarian aid to Angola as a priority, especially consignments of food, clothing and medicines, as well as the urgent need to supply such aid more rapidly and effectively; the urgent need to supply tools and seeds to enable people to grow crops and to reduce, in a short space of time, the current total dependence on food aid; specific support for the resettlement of displaced populations, specifically with aid for the rebuilding of basic infra-structures; and, as a corollary, clear and committed adherence to the two Conference of Donors phases recommended by the Angolan authorities.
In response to the signing of the peace agreement between the government and UNITA and to an appeal for assistance in addressing the humanitarian situation, the Commission drew up an action plan for Angola to support the peace process.
The Commission provides substantial humanitarian support to reduce the suffering of the displaced populations in Angola.
The Commission considers the demobilisation of UNITA and the Angolan armed forces troops a vital element in the peace process and in this context is considering with other partners support for the Angola Demobilisation and Reintegration Programme.
To ensure lasting peace, the government should improve the democratic conditions in Angola, especially promoting improvements in the human rights situation and freedom of the press.
The Commission urges both parties to consult all segments of Angolan civil society, including the churches, with a view to national reconciliation and lasting peace.
We underline that interventions to promote good governance will have high priority at all stages in the support strategy for Angola.
The Commission welcomes the government's intention to organise an international conference for the reconstruction of the country and trusts that the views of all groups of society will be reflected in the reconstruction plan to be presented.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, this Parliament has been a consistent critic of the Mugabe dictatorship in Zimbabwe, a country which, 20 years ago, was deemed to be a model for a prosperous, multi-racial African democracy.
However, after the slaughter of thousands in Matabeleland the ZANU-PF Government has brought the country to the verge of economic collapse and starvation.
The EU sanctions have been poorly applied, with the Minster of Police recently attending an Interpol function in Spain and Mugabe attending a hunger conference in Rome, which is a clear affront to world opinion.
Although Zimbabwe faces expulsion from the Commonwealth on 25 July, the government seems more concerned with prosecuting a disastrous war in the Democratic Republic of Congo in order to safeguard Mugabe's cronies' diamond mining interests.
I strongly urge the General Affairs Council, on 22 July, to beef up the sanctions and to allow no excuses from Member States that their multilateral treaty obligations override the sanction restrictions.
I also call on the Commonwealth to suspend Zimbabwe from the forthcoming Commonwealth Games on 25 July in Manchester.
Ordinary people can rest assured that the EU will continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid in order to prevent undue suffering and a total breakdown in civil society.
The situation is deteriorating by the day, and we, the European Parliament, the European Union, are, in actual fact, watching helplessly.
They can bring pressure to bear on Mr Mugabe, and we can help them do this.
These countries do receive aid on a large scale, and we could do something with this, but they would, in turn, have to exert pressure on Mr Mugabe so that the situation there changes.
But you will not resolve the problems of the long-suffering people of Zimbabwe by simply turning a blind eye and pretending they do not exist, nor by allowing President Mugabe to leave the country and attend conferences.
Zimbabwe was once a flourishing country and it could be again.
Mr President, could I draw your attention and that of the services to paragraph 12 of the proposed resolution?
The French text states 'des personnes frappées d'interdiction?.
I do not have the English text here, but I think that these three texts relate to the same kind of sanctions, namely the ban on access to our territory in the European countries, in the EU countries.
The Commission, for its part, has already set the procedure for responding to demands for food aid in motion and has earmarked a total of EUR 55 million for the area.
If order to prevent a repetition of the crisis and the situation from worsening in forthcoming years, the government really must review its macroeconomic and sectoral policies, in order to get the country back on the road to a more stable economy and development.
We need to give these efforts some time before condemning them.
Even though we do not share this view, we need to seriously reconsider if our objective is to support regional efforts to deal with the crisis in Zimbabwe.
The European Union imposed specific sanctions on 20 members of the governing party by refusing visas, freezing assets and suspending bilateral ministerial contacts.
Because the dialogue has ground to a halt and violence continues in Zimbabwe, most groups in Parliament propose that the Council should impose further sanctions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, according to the Russian Constitution, the journalist Grigory Pasko would have rendered himself liable to punishment if he had withheld information on environmental issues or environmental disasters which might have endangered human life.
It is deeply tragic for Grigory Pasko, and it is deeply tragic in terms of the situation in Russia where democracy and human rights are concerned.
This Parliament must clearly express our repudiation of laws and sentences which restrict the freedom of the press, and we must, here in Parliament, call upon the Council to give expression to our serious concern in the forthcoming meetings between the EU and Russia.
We see it in the Council of Europe here in Strasbourg, and we see it also in relations between Russia and the EU.
He brought to light a crime that put people in danger and through which they would have been in even greater danger if the crime had not be brought to light, and, as Mrs Schroedter so rightly said, in doing that he did his duty.
He has done us all a service, and we must stand by him in this situation in which his health and freedom are in the gravest danger, not only for humanitarian reasons, but also for the sake of the credibility of the European Union, for whose ideals of freedom he too has taken a stand, and for the sake of relations between the European Community and Russia, for no real partnership with Russia can succeed if, far from the rule of law in that country being strengthened, Russia is suffering further setbacks on the road to it.
There have been major setbacks in recent years, and we must fear that what is left of democracy and the rule of law in Russia will be endangered if victory goes to those who want to make use of the Pasko case in a struggle for power within Russia, by which they want to demonstrate that the armed forces and the secret services are still in charge.
The Commission agrees that further diplomatic action is needed in view of the recent developments.
In parallel, these issues will continue to be a priority in the framework of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR), under which Russia is a core country.
At the time, we expressed our concern in a resolution about the persecution of 52 men on account of their homosexuality.
My group, and I assume also the other groups in this House, are therefore shocked to hear that Egyptian law enforcement agencies are now once again bringing 50 of these men before the court for something in respect of which sentence has previously been passed on them.
In the initial trial in November 2001, 25 were sentenced to jail terms, but the government has decided on a second retrial of its so-called perverts.
Regarding the previous debate, I would also like to ask Commissioner Diamantopoulou to use all available means to keep up the pressure on Zimbabwe.
A second trial contravenes all legal principles.
I recognise the importance of Egypt and hold the Egyptian Government, President Mubarak and the Ambassador to the European Union in the highest regard.
Therefore to do nothing is to condone human rights abuses wherever they occur.
Mr President, the first part of our resolutions generally comprises a list of old resolutions or international conventions.
The first document cited is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, which we should always use as a guide; Article 2 of the EU-Egypt Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement, which is still to be ratified, is also cited.
In my country, specifically in Madrid, 250 000 people demonstrated peacefully in an enthusiastic, tolerant demonstration that is worthy of praise.
The recent report by Amnesty International describes the misery of thousands of people being persecuted and tortured because their real or supposed sexuality is perceived as a threat to the established order.
In over 70 countries, homosexual relations qualify as a crime, sometimes even attracting the death penalty.
Egypt is primus inter pares in perpetuity in the Arab League.
Today, in supporting this important resolution, we call upon the Council and the Commission to speak for Parliament in asking the Egyptian Government to think again.
The European Commission closely followed the case of the 52 men arrested in the so-called Queen Boat affair and the conduct and the outcome of the case raised several issues of concern.
Egyptian President Mubarak has recently ruled that all but two of the 52 men arrested in the Queen Boat case should not have been tried in the Security Court and their case will now be reheard in a misdemeanour court.
A decision on the referral is expected to be given on 16 July.
The European Commission will continue to follow the Queen Boat case and other similar prosecutions.
The European Union's concerns have already been communicated to the Egyptian authorities through the normal channels and will be reiterated if appropriate.
At a bilateral level, the Association Agreements increasingly govern the European Union's relations with third countries and require that such relations "shall be based on respect of democratic principles and fundamental human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights".
The recently signed European Union-Egypt Association Agreement contains such a clause and respect of human rights is explicitly identified in the text as an "essential element" of this agreement.
Perhaps he can do that with his own parliament, but we are freely elected deputies and still decide on our agenda ourselves.
Mr President, whereas, in the rest of Central and Eastern Europe, considerable progress has been made when it comes to freedom of the press, matters have, as we have mentioned, taken a wrong turn in both Russia and Belarus.
It is deeply worrying that, in recent years, an average of ten journalists per year have been murdered in the two countries.
Parliament should support the recommendations by the International Federation of Journalists, or IFJ, which rightly points out that there is a need for the international community to be much more vigilant in monitoring and protesting against the infringements of press freedom that take place.
Last time, we discussed the problems surrounding the OSCE mission in Minsk and its closure by stealth.
This is why I urge the Council, the Commission and all Member States, on the basis of paragraph 6 of the present joint motion for a resolution, to give our unqualified support to this church initiative.
The fact that its top official Andrew Carpenter, who has been deeply involved in democracy and human rights in this European state, failed to received an extension to his visa in practice meant the closure of the office.
The Commission, represented here by Commissioner Diamantopoulou, must now seriously review the European Union's strategy with regard to Belarus.
The country is, and has long been, isolated.
Firstly, no one person, namely President Lukashenko, can stand in the way of a whole country of ten million inhabitants.
We must support democracy but without splitting the country.
Fifthly, we must continue in our single-minded fight for human rights.
Belarus may once again crop up under topical and urgent matters in the European Parliament in September.
I therefore consider it right that we turn our attention to this country a second time within a very short period, and we will not cease from doing so until this country is in actual possession of the things we enjoy, namely democracy and the rule of law in accordance with European standards, until this country has also returned to the community of free European peoples.
The treatment of journalists and authors in Belarus is scandalous.
These men had all been accused of slandering the president during the electoral campaign last year.
The Commission will continue to stress that Member States should not make concessions to, or deal with, the Belarussian Government unless and until there is a fundamental shift in its attitude.
Both Tacis and the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) are active in these fields.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The Argentine situation has improved since December, but we are still faced with tremendous difficulties.
In any event, when we address the problem of Argentina in these institutions, we should refrain from lecturing.
Naturally, I do not think either Parliament or the institutions of the European Union as a whole are in a position to lecture.
In particular, it is difficult to do so in the case of a country like Argentina, which has been the prize pupil of the International Monetary Fund and which we have often praised for following this type of policy.
I think we need to look for a far more pragmatic solution.
From my point of view and that of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, therefore, the important thing now is not to provide solutions or recommendations, but to ensure that the European institutions and our Governments take action to support this economy and this country which, given the close relationship it has with us, deserves our backing.
Mr President, unlike three of the Parliamentary groups, we did not sign this resolution because we believe it does not tell the whole truth about what is happening in Argentina - although this is difficult to do through a resolution, I admit - and it seems rather weak.
The best example is recital H, which states: "whereas the violent incidents in Argentina that have claimed victims stem from the serious economic and social plight of the country [...], and from the fact that over 40% of the population is out of work".
Mr President, a country as wealthy as Argentina has no right to leave the majority of its population in poverty.
We must help a people which, in desperation, lives with and bears the consequences of damaging former government policies, on a daily basis.
Our contribution should be to work towards social stability in Argentina and the economic recovery of its people, because what is good for Argentina is good for everybody.
Two demonstrators have died, 90 people have been injured and 150 people have been arrested.
The peoples of Europe are united there in all their cultural richness and live peacefully together.
I have to say, as someone who loves and values that country beyond all measure, that this is something that we as Europeans must regret, and something that requires that we offer our help in a spirit of solidarity.
I do not begrudge anyone their salary - that is not the point at issue - but Argentina has an enormously inefficient system, and if it does not sort out its home-grown problems itself, as its neighbour Brazil has made a start on doing, then we Europeans can do nothing either.
The Commission agrees that the deep root of these acts lies in a monetary crisis, which transformed itself into a commercial and economic crisis (sharp fall in trade, investment and GDP), deteriorated into a social crisis (unemployment, poverty and social exclusion) and is ending in a crisis of confidence in the national institutions.
What is needed is to win back citizens' confidence in the democratic institutions, to win back the confidence of economic actors in the stability and credibility of law and order, and, in particular, to restore the credibility of the financial system.
The European Union and its Member States have already tried to help Argentina in the different international organisations, including the IMF and the last G8 Summit.
Something that would undoubtedly help Argentina is deeper integration of the Mercosur countries and the European Union is making an effort to accelerate its negotiations with Mercosur.
To this end, Commissioners Lamy and Patten will hold a meeting with the Mercosur ministers on 23 July in Brasilia.
The negotiations between Mercosur and the European Union will undoubtedly help promote internal cohesion in Mercosur that will in turn help Argentina.
However, our country strategy paper has identified the fight against poverty and institutional support as the two main priorities.
The debate is closed.
Furthermore, this decision by a government led by a Fianna Fail Taoiseach is a betrayal of the European idealism of his predecessors as far back as Sean Lemass who indicated that Ireland would be willing to participate in a common EU defence policy.
