Measuring devices containing mercury (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 76/769/EEC relating to restrictions on the marketing of certain measuring devices containing mercury (05665/1/2007 - C6-0114/2007 - (Rapporteur: María Sornosa Martínez).
In that way, we shall contribute to guaranteeing a high level of protection of the environment and human health, whilst preserving the internal market, as required by Article 95 of the Treaty.
Vice-President of the Commission. (DE) Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by offering my sincere thanks to Mrs Sornoza Martínez, the rapporteur, on her work on this proposal.
The directive will therefore bring a major step forward, it will restrict the marketing of certain new measuring devices containing mercury and in that way prevent some 30 tonnes of mercury entering the environment through waste every year.
A further derogation means that antique measuring instruments, that is those that are at least 50 years old, will still be able to be sold.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, we have been through these arguments on a number of occasions so I shall keep my argument as brief as possible.
There are probably more antique instruments being circulated and placed on the market in Europe than there are new instruments being created.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I am indebted to Mrs Sornosa Martínez, who has our warm and unqualified support.
In the Netherlands, the use of mercury has been banned since 2003, but barometers were exempt until 2005 and then, pending fresh European rules, until 1 January 2006.
Every year, 33 tonnes of mercury enter into circulation in new equipment and 27 tonnes in used equipment.
I would like to thank Mrs Sornosa Martínez for her work.
Dentists, laboratories and hospitals have phased out mercury.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, it has long been known that mercury compounds are harmful to human beings and to the environment.
It is therefore right and proper to introduce provisions restricting the use of mercury in certain measuring devices.
This is particularly serious as cheap electronic devices are not very accurate.
In this case, withdrawal of equipment containing mercury might not be due exclusively to a desire to protect health and the environment. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this measuring devices directive is intended to remove around 30 tonnes of mercury from circulation, not very much but nevertheless an appreciable quantity.
I approve the common position. (SV) It is, in actual fact, astonishing that we are forced to have this debate.
I would be interested to hear what the Commissioner has to say about these conflicting aims. (SK) Mercury is used in many measuring devices, thermometers and barometers.
Mercury has also been used successfully, and without major health implications, in dentistry in the form of amalgam fillings.
We are all aware that the Council's joint position includes most of the amendments already adopted by the European Parliament on 14 November 2006.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 11 July 2007.
That is how I understood it, Mr Schlyter: I can assure you, I did the same thing and I hope to live to an old age.
