This is a sector which accounts for approximately 13% of GDP in the European Union and has great economic impact as it amounts to between 10 and 15% of the final cost of finished products in Europe.
The talk is currently of growth of some 50% between the years 2000 and 2020.
SESAR, SafeSeaNet and Track and Trade are all devices and new technologies which are being successfully applied to this sector.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly want to thank Mrs Ayala Sender for her report on freight transport logistics.
The report by Mrs Ayala Sender also, rightly, highlights the simplification of administrative procedures, infrastructure investment needs and the problems posed by logistics in urban areas.
In my view, the way to make European mobility sustainable, that is to say compatible with our environmental requirements for the benefit of the economy and of European citizens, is through good logistics and good transport infrastructures.
Research can also help make freight transport more efficient, environmentally compatible and also more secure.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I should first like to thank Mrs Ayala Sender for her initiative.
The second largest road development in Ireland at present is the construction of a 112 km road called the M3, which will by-pass the towns of Dunshaughlin, Navan and Kells in County Meath.
I look forward to seeing what the European Commission will bring to this debate, both in its Freight Logistics Action Plan and in the study of vehicle weights and dimensions.
To sum up briefly, my compliments to Mrs Ayala Sender on her report and I hope that the course embarked upon can be taken further later on in the year.
On gigaliners - perhaps it would be better to say either 60-tonners or 25m-long HGVs, for there are different categories - at this moment in time my Group is quite definitely against authorising their general use in transport.
The navigable waterway made up of the Rhine, Main Channel and the Danube shortens the distance between the Northwestern and Southeastern Europe by 4 000 km.
Moreover, as of 2007, the European Union has an exit to the Black Sea.
I think that this report is extremely important for the economic development of the European Union.
Member States should do more for freight transport logistics.
Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote against the megaliners in paragraph 21.
Faced with the need for sustainable economic development and the need to reduce pollution, logistics, planning, exchange of best practices as well as efficient cooperation between all relevant players - authorities, producers, carriers, beneficiaries - are the only viable solutions.
The Commission has to bear in mind and to allocate more funds as of 2008.
I await your conclusions with interest. (HU) I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Ayala Sender, for an excellent report.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining with your rapporteur in emphasising the importance of logistics, not only from the economic point of view but also environmentally and socially.
That is made very clear in the report by Mrs Ayala Sender, which I welcome.
I should like to draw attention to the new Marco Polo II Programme, which will enable us to finance logistical solutions favouring the modal shift or the reduction in traffic.
