Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Coelho, the rapporteur, for his excellent work on the legal package for the second generation Schengen Information System.
rapporteur. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, what we have on the table are three documents: two regulations and one decision.
Fourthly, Mr President, I feel that this is a good outcome for Parliament, because we have managed to achieve most of what we had been fighting for, of which I should like to highlight the following: Community management of the central system, under the democratic control of the European Parliament and the legal control of the Court of Justice (the creation of a Community agency within five years, established in codecision with Parliament, is provided for); the fact that there is greater harmonisation of alerts in the Schengen Information System (SIS), whereby entry into the Schengen area can be refused (the Commission is invited to submit initiatives, within three years, aimed at achieving higher levels of harmonisation); the fact that European Arrest Warrants are stored in the SIS central system; the fact that we are using biometric data as a research field only after the drafting of a report to be submitted to Parliament on which Parliament will have its say; the fact that we have clearly strengthened the rules on data protection and the rights of individuals in relation to the system, the fact that the supervision system has been strengthened at both European and national level; and the obligation to draw up reports in order to increase transparency regarding the overall functioning of the system.
I hope that the Council does not do likewise with the compromise reached in the Brussels trialogue of 26 September.
It has now become clear that the enlargement of the Schengen area will be delayed for technical reasons.
I therefore support the alternative solutions which will grant accession to SIS I only to those Member States which have finalised their preparations, that is to say, to those which have fulfilled all the criteria for inclusion in the Schengen Information System within the time limit originally envisaged.
The implementation of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) should enable us to help remove the internal borders with the ten new Member States.
The SIS is a monitoring tool that has been implemented at the external borders and that has replaced the old fixed installations, which were abolished as part of the efforts to promote the free movement of persons.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) In a short time, we shadow rapporteurs have joined the rapporteur in approving all the legislative proposals necessary in order to extend the Schengen area also to include the new Member States.
For the visas, the fingerprints of 20 million people per year are to be taken.
It is important for us to enhance data protection, something that the European Parliament is trying to do.
The implication for ourselves of their decision is that there would be a great risk either that many people who are entitled to enter the EU would not be able to do so, or - in the event of the safety margins being reduced - that undesirables would get in.
The first has to do with data protection.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Mr President, I wish I could be delighted about the fact that the European Parliament will consider this packet of three documents in the October part-session and that we shall probably take a reasonably rapid decision, which will also mean that it will be a codecision.
For the public in the new Member States it is difficult to understand why the technical, financial and human resources for the internal borders of the new Member States will be applied two years later than planned and why Schengen agreement rights will not be extended to citizens of the new Member States until at least 2009.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, the European Union is currently working hard at reinforcing external border control, which is important, but there are also the internal borders to consider, and incidents involving suspects crossing borders throw up questions about internal border control.
This is where an effective information system such as SIS II can be useful.
In its present form, this system is only capable of serving a maximum of 18 participating countries.
Commissioner Frattini stated that, at best, the new SIS II information system would be ready in June 2008.
I agree with the rapporteur, however, that it is not acceptable for the Council to introduce amendments to the compromise already reached in the three-party talks.
The SIS II package provides increased security, better protection of personal data, and tighter border controls.
The lack of data protection makes it all the more worrisome that the Parliament is asked to give up its decision-making rights concerning biometrics.
Also, the Schengen Information System will add more meaning and substance to the European arrest warrant and strengthen the role of Europol and Eurojust with the increasing cooperation of our police and security forces. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur.
I therefore believe that the reason for these technical delays can only be an eminently political one. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a worthy end - that of the free movement of EU citizens and the abolition of internal borders - is concealing an unacceptable means.
I also hope that henceforth the Commission will play fair with the new Member States.
What is even worse is that it is planned for the old Member States to join SIS II in June 2008, but the new Member States will only be able to join in the distant future.
That is the central question in this whole debate.
It is only useful if the Member States monitor the external borders effectively, adopt an active and consistent policy of tracing and expulsion and come down hard on human traffickers who make a fortune at external borders that are scantly monitored. (HU) The integration of the European Union has reached an important milestone with the vote in the European Parliament on the regulations creating the legislative basis for the second-generation Schengen Information System.
The objection given is that SIS II has taken longer to complete than planned, but one cannot help but presume that there are political reasons for the delay, although the Commission invokes technical reasons.
We would like to thank everyone who took part in this process, and in particular the rapporteur.
It is not certain that the new Member States will be able to join the Schengen system in October 2007, although the lifting of internal borders is one of the most important achievements of the European Union, especially for the citizens of those Member States who during the days of dictatorship were either unable to travel to the 'old' Member States, or could do so only under excessively severe restrictions.
The delay officially recognised by the Commission comes as a shock to us.
There are others who share our view, as we can see in the Portuguese proposal.
I am glad that there is solidarity among Member States, but I regret that for the moment our joining SIS I is not yet certain.
What is certain is that everything that lies ahead will involve budget overruns. (EL) Mr President, the second generation Schengen Information System is an enhanced version of the database used to record the data of the citizens of the European Union and of third countries on the pretext of safeguarding public order within the European Union.
And this is supposed not to worry us. - (LT) I would first like to thank Mr Coelho, who mentioned at our session today that the SIS II system is very useful for the new EU Member States that planned to join the Schengen area in autumn 2007.
I thank you, Mr President, but you can be sure that, if we do not have this framework decision immediately, Parliament's voice will be heard loud and clear. - (SK) Over the past few days, doubts concerning the original deadline for accession to the Schengen area in October 2007 have become a focus of mass media attention in the new Member States.
Even though these three reports to a large extent focus on technical matters rather than on the frequently discussed Schengen area enlargement date, their smooth passage and implementation will determine the conditions under which the 2007 deadline might be still feasible.
In the case of Slovakia alone it has so far entailed about EUR 6 million.
For this reason we find any delay unacceptable.
Almost two years have elapsed since then, and the citizens of the Member States cannot understand the European Commission is only now tackling the technical and legal problems associated with implementing SIS II.
Is it not possible for such dialogue to take place more quickly, however? (PL) Mr President, the citizens of the old European Union have enjoyed freedom of movement within the Schengen system since 1985.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all the Members who have expressed solidarity with the new Member States today. (ET) As the representative of a new Member State, I am very glad that the second generation of the Schengen Information System is nearing completion.
We will prove that only by using them to society's benefit. (PL) Mr President, Schengen is one of those EU projects that enables the citizens of the Member States to appreciate the benefits of belonging to the European Union.
The SIS I Plus proposal actually amounts to a step backwards, as it involves applying a different timeframe to the countries of the old and new European Union.
I shall be interested to know how Commissioner Frattini intends to explain to Polish, Czech, and Hungarian public opinion that the entry of our countries into the Schengen area has been delayed, possibly until 2009.
But it may be that this situation is the result not of technical problems with the introduction of SIS II, but of the political reluctance of certain Member States to implement the Treaty in their domestic policy.
Mr President, I believe that the majority of the speakers have mentioned the major problems faced by the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), and that a minority of them mentioned the legal basis.
The controls carried out by the police authorities will be made more effective, with the result that the external borders will be more secure and an appropriate level of protection of personal data will also be maintained.
Frankly, I hope, like several of you do, that the Council will finally act on the political commitment made by the Austrian and Finnish Presidencies, and by that I mean the agreement on the proposal for a framework directive aimed at integrating data protection into the third pillar so as to create a comprehensive system incorporating security and the protection of fundamental rights.
The fact that we are acting fairly swiftly in guaranteeing all EU citizens a real area of free movement is one of the most visible results of EU enlargement.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30.
