As an expression of our solidarity with the people of Spain and especially the Basques I would also like to call on all those present in the House today to join in a minute's silence in defence of freedom, political coexistence and respect for the rule of law.
This year, the debate falls at a particularly sensitive time in terms of both international affairs and the life of the Union.
Last December, we wound up accession negotiations with ten countries.
After years of uncertainty, democratic debate in both the old and the new Member countries of the Union will now be on firm ground.
The very positive outcome of the referendum in Malta is an auspicious sign and an incentive to even greater efforts.
The first job is to complete economic integration.
In this situation, we have to guard against two temptations.
One temptation would be to build a Europe that is in opposition to the United States.
Do we not want to build a genuine political area that allows us to affirm and defend our principles and our values throughout the world?
This brings me to the Convention.
I have always believed that our mission was to bring about enlargement and reform of the institutions in parallel.
This is another reason why we need an open political debate on the new enlarged Europe.
It kicks off a process that will end with the adoption of the budget and the presentation of the legislative work programme for next year.
Throughout this process, we shall be engaged in an intense detailed debate with Parliament and the Council in order to define the fundamental political options.
Without going into the details of the individual aspects of this programme, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of our relations with countries that are already our neighbours or will be neighbours of the enlarged Union.
A common market, a reinvigorated political dialogue based on shared principles and values and the harnessing of the full external potential of our common policies: these are the pillars of the new strategic concept for the Union that we are setting out in a communication on a 'Wider Europe'.
Now we must define the political project for the enlarged Union.
This process is necessary irrespective of enlargement, but enlargement and the present international context make it even more imperative and urgent.
The Convention is a potential turning point in the life of our Community: let us all strive to make it a success.
As the President said about the current context, it would seem to be relevant that we should be thinking about substantive issues such as what the transatlantic partnership is going to be like in five years' time.
Next, in terms of procedure, we should be a little careful that this Commission, although very active in looking forward to the next financial perspective, could bring us in theory to 2013, which not only covers the next Commission but also the Commission after that.
To find ourselves in 2003 already discussing 2013 all seems rather far away.
The PPE-DE Group is in favour of the financial perspective covering a five-year period.
There seems to be this refrain across the House at the moment that we should have 10 to 12 Commissioners.
I do not see how we can run a Commission with only 10 to 12 Commissioners when most governments have at least 30 to 35 ministers to run their own countries.
We are dealing here with the Union, a much bigger enterprise, so why not have 30 or 35 Commissioners?
Secondly, the priorities of the budget for 2004 are well set out in the annual policy strategy document in terms of the three points that are made.
In addition, the PPE-DE Group is interested in the document concerning a better relationship with our neighbours in terms of security and stability.
Above all, we are interested in the enlargement process and in making sure that we can fulfil our obligations and that Member States are fully integrated into the Union after 1 May 2004.
The questions we will be asking concern the significant rise of 780 in staffing numbers and, in particular, whether we need so many civil servants in the interpretation and translation departments.
Finally, I come to my group's priorities during the budgetary process.
We would like to ensure that this reform is completed by the end of our mandate.
Secondly, there is the question of the A-30 subsidy lines - a specific, but very sensitive point for Parliament.
We have differing views across Parliament as to what should and should not be benchmarked and we need a common approach on that.
My last comment pertains to a letter I have from the Secretary-General about follow-up to parliamentary acts.
It states with regard to Parliament resolutions on COS documents that, of the 490 requests we made last year, the Commission has decided not to follow up 104 cases.
I conclude by saying that this is a key moment in this budgetary process.
The Commission has set out some useful lines of discussion and debate looking ahead post-2004.
I hope that at the end of the process our Parliament will be able to reach the right conclusions in the interests of our citizens.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we are presented here today with a highly technocratic document and a speech by you, Mr Prodi.
The threat of war in Iraq has opened new fault lines within the European Union and also within the candidate countries.
Mr President, I believe that we have probably all failed - and not only in relation to the Iraq issue - to highlight the objectives and actual raison d'être of the EU as a peace project.
The Commission also has the task of considering how we can counteract that, and how, above all at the level of culture and society, we can put the European idea across to more of the public, in addition to the united voice of the European Union.
We must of course have a restrictive visa policy, but these social groups could receive flexible treatment under it.
We invest too little - not only in research and development, but also in infrastructure.
Likewise, the progressive undermining of services of general interest - an area in which we are still awaiting a coherent policy from the European Union, and especially from the Commission - often has the unfortunate effect of leading some people to blindly oppose globalisation, or, at any rate, to be suspicious of the common market.
My group is firmly convinced that - even if only to avoid unfair competition - this network must also embrace those who have migrated here.
It is my belief, though, President Prodi, that, as you said in your speech, we need more conviction in matters of policy, as well as strategies that come to terms with the popular mindset, both in our own countries and among our neighbours.
Do something, Mr President, to ensure that the Commission's documents clearly express the nature of the European project - that it is neither technocratic nor administrative, but political.
Mr President, at a time when the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe have been subject to quite a great deal of criticism from EU Heads of Governments, and from European Commissioners and others, for making their views on the Iraq crisis known, the ELDR Group strongly welcomes the statement from the European Commission that the central priority must and will remain enlargement.
The candidate countries are innocent bystanders in that debate and should not be penalised for having being pressured into making their views known.
That is why the ELDR Group is especially keen that the somewhat stalled talks in the interinstitutional working group, which is looking at the way in which we all collectively improve our law-making capacity, should conclude as quickly as possible.
There would be no point in those impact assessments if MEPs in the European Parliament or Ministers in the Council of Ministers were then to ignore your assessment and simply revise the legislation without any regard for the impact.
That is why many of us in the interinstitutional working group have been urging you in the European Commission to think about how you could extrapolate your excellent work in the impact assessment field and urge all institutions to sign up to similar practices.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in the debate of 18 November 2002 on the Commission's legislative and work programme for 2003, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, I said that I could not see how anyone could be against the political priorities stated, but I added that there was a wide discrepancy between the objectives and the measures taken to implement them, resulting in increasing dissatisfaction on the part of public opinion and the risk that the European ideal itself might be rejected by those who, like myself, want a European Europe.
Four months later, having read the long communication from the Commission and heard President Prodi, and speaking on behalf of the GUE/NGL, I would be tempted to say the same thing, except that today's information document is far more watered down.
For example, the mandate of the Prodi Commission ends in 2004; European elections will be held and 732 members will be elected; enlargement will take place on 1 May provided that the ratification process is complete.
The Member States are divided between those that uphold peace and those that are in favour of war, between those that are blindly following the United States and those seeking a balanced European position.
The economic crisis and the recession are worsening rapidly, unemployment is increasing everywhere with thousands of people the victims of harsh redundancies, insecurity in all its forms is flourishing to the detriment of the weakest and, in the face of these mortal challenges, the first two of which were raised by President Prodi this morning, the written communication discusses new forms of governance, stability, new social and economic agendas, quality of life, border security and even traffic and registration taxes for private vehicles.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the members of my group are not all pro-Europe, to say the least, but they are realists.
The vast majority of them, given that Europe now exists, demand that it should at least be a people's Europe, that it should be democratic, pay attention to social issues and not be subject to the diktats of the economy, in order to respond to the real problems of European citizens.
I take as an example the agreements concerning chemicals.
Last Saturday was 8 March - International Women's Day - and so I thought it fitting to say something about that here, too.
The directives have been very influential in the emancipation of women and it is vital that they are complied with, including in the candidate countries.
If not, this is another part that must be included in the budgetary procedure.
If, against our hopes, the amendment by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, advocating the inclusion of those funds in the general Commission budget, is not adopted, we shall unfortunately feel compelled to vote against the report.
Ladies and gentlemen, President Prodi, today, in addition to the Commission strategy for 2004, we are debating the economic and budget guidelines.
As the economic and social climate is extremely tense, I am surprised by the optimism of the Commission communication and, to be frank, exasperated by this way of approaching debates.
I could have written Paragraph 2 of the draft resolution on the state of the European economy which calls on European leaders at the next Spring Economic Affairs Council to avoid vague, self-satisfied speeches, and I would vote for it tomorrow.
The government of my country has also, at last, accepted the facts, having shown excessive optimism for which, ironically, the Commission has not failed to criticise it.
This passage merits consideration in view of what happened to the previous Commission and the political objective of transparent, effective management.
Mr President, today, the Commission is presenting us with a communication on its annual policy strategy, with regard to which I would like to make several comments.
It leads us to believe that the Commission is a government adopting its policy strategy.
This is not the case: this communication is merely a proposal which must, one way or another, be adopted by the Council, which is the only body with the power, under Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union, to provide the Union with its political impetus.
President Prodi has just repeated yet again that, in a Europe with 25 States, we would have to abolish unanimous decisions and generalise qualified majority voting.
Firstly, our Budget will have to take into account the fact that, on 1 May of that year, ten new Member States will probably be joining us.
Parliament has a very strong preference for a budget to be adopted in December of this year for 25 Member States.
That means that we shall have to work on the basis of 15 Member States for the first part of 2004 and then, as of 1 May 2004, for the ten new Member States on top.
Another new element of the 2004 budget to which I hope Members will become accustomed is a new system called 'activity-based budgeting'.
First of all - and Mr Prodi has already said this - we have to see to it that the economies of the new Member States are integrated into those of the present Member States.
The second point concerns the question as to whether it will be possible to develop insurance schemes in the future for animal diseases.
As always, heading 4 requires special attention, particularly at this time.
We shall have to look at whether this heading will have to be renamed and whether we shall have to divide it up into different sub-headings, et cetera.
Lastly, I shall also be paying special attention to the point raised by Mr Elles.
Within this context, there are three main themes in my resolution.
Firstly, to achieve greater accountability through improved presentation and transparency of the budget.
Our current system does not always lend itself readily to achieving this goal.
Decision-making is too centralised and there is not enough devolution and delegation in management structures.
The Commission is wrong to take a very short-term view and propose otherwise.
We need to be more innovative and ambitious in almost every area of our operation, never more so than in our information and communication policies.
Parliament has to play an even greater role in the interinstitutional communication strategy executed by the Commission.
Furthermore, we need greater endeavours by everyone to ensure active citizenship and civic participation.
It is therefore crucial that European citizens are better informed about the activities of Parliament and how European legislation can influence their daily lives.
My third theme is to create a flexible framework for the future operations of Parliament and other institutions.
This is probably one of the greatest challenges for all the institutions and I welcome the 'raising the game' proposals put forward by Parliament's Secretary-General to improve the focus of our secretariat's activities and give greater legislative assistance to Members.
I have found nooks and crannies in this House that I never knew existed.
The people of the new Member States have had to show extreme flexibility in moving from the old system to the new system.
We in the institutions need to start showing similar flexibility if we are to enhance the credibility of our institutions.
Enlargement will become a reality in 2004, and we in the institutions must do everything possible to ensure that it is a success from the very outset.
The new Member States will participate from the day they join in all the programmes funded by the European Budget - programmes in agricultural policy, structural policy, environmental policy, the research programmes, and, to take another example, the programmes to promote trans-European networks.
Among the other priorities for 2004 are the maintenance of political stability, and, as the President of the Commission was just saying, this has both an external and an internal dimension.
As regards the external effects, this priority will find expression in the Budget by our proposal for an increase in funds for the Balkan region and also for the MEDA programme.
The Commission also proposes that pre-accession aid for Bulgaria and Romania - as promised to both those countries - should be increased in order to give both these countries more help towards achieving their goal of becoming Member States of the European Union in 2007.
The Commission also proposes that funds for Turkey should be substantially increased in order to support processes of reform and its preparations for accession to the European Union.
The Commission will, in addition, be putting forward a new proposal for dealing with migration issues within the various policy areas.
I would like to use the time remaining to me to deal briefly with two questions that have been put.
The first question has to do with the proposal for an instrument for the Budget lines in Chapter A-30.
We will be putting such a proposal to Parliament at the end of April.
As regards the second, on the funding of parties, what is crucial in the first place is that we at last achieve the breakthrough and enact a legal basis enabling this chapter to be concluded in such a way that there is a quite unambiguous legal base on which funds can be allocated to this from the European Budget.
The President of the Commission has described how the Commission has decided to discharge its responsibility and submit proposals for the Union's tasks, and the financial resources they will require, in the period after 2006.
The Commission has a very open mind as regards the arguments as to whether this proposal for the new Financial Perspective - that is to say, for the period after 2006 - should cover the period up to 2013 or 2011.
This means that our task will be to produce proposals for a Union consisting of twenty-five or twenty-seven Member States, and it stands to reason that any such proposals must represent an added value for the citizens of the European Union.
I can already promise you that we will make use of the time available to us this year to work closely with Parliament in elaborating these proposals.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gill, Mr Mulder, this year is another in which our committee has concentrated its attention on the central issues of security on the external borders and complete freedom of movement, which are of great importance in terms of the finance allocated to the Budget areas within our committee's remit.
The reinforcement of Europol and Eurojust, along with the fight against terrorism, continue to be among the European Union's most urgent tasks.
The EU will have to spend a good deal more money on both Eurodac and Eurojust if we want, for example, to achieve an equally high standard of protection on the new borders when the EU has enlarged to include twenty-five states.
I note that, in the past, we have had outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever in the European Union, and now we have another outbreak of avian influenza.
The second point concerns the shift in the sector towards greater market orientation.
That means that we must do more for promotion, market orientation and the organisation of the financial policy in this field.
The third point concerns the new Member States, in regard to which this is a historic budget.
If this should cause problems of a legislative nature, we shall have to try to find a satisfactory solution, but in any case, these funds must also be paid out in the new Member States in future, especially for the restructuring of agriculture and horticulture.
It is also important that policy, especially with regard to food safety, the development of animal welfare, and environmental instruments in agriculture, be geared more towards the development of instruments for financial policy.
Mr President, one of the clear messages from this report today is the need to introduce procedures which will simplify the Structural Funds payments regime in Europe.
It is also important that the European Commission strictly adheres to enforcing the principle of additionality through uniform verification methods.
The committee believes that it is important to speed up the introduction of all the streamlining measures needed to improve the quality of Structural Fund spending in Europe.
If EU Structural Funds are going to be applied for the desired purpose, namely to improve the economic and social cohesion of different regions, then these monies must be spent as additional financial resources.
If the principle of additionality is not rigorously enforced and independently verified, it makes it very difficult for European Union institutions and national EU governments to ensure that the competitive position of those regions most in need is improved.
We all agree that the EU budget must be framed in such a way as to meet its objectives.
I am concerned that, whereas the rate of appropriations from the Community budget for trans-European networks in the field of transport measures continues to be at a satisfactory level, a number of Member States have failed to advance the necessary monies for these TENs projects.
On a broader budgetary matter, I welcome the fact that under the 2004 budget Parliament's Committee on Budgets supports the following measures: the need to increase rural development aid measures under the EU common agricultural policy; the need to guarantee the safety of food products, both from within the territories of the Union and from third countries; greater co-ordination of security measures at the EU's external borders and improved EU immigration and asylum policies; and promotion of an EU media space to disseminate information on the workings of the European Union and raise public awareness of the impact of European Union legislation on the day-to-day lives of the citizens of Europe.
Petitioning Parliament is an essential right for the citizens of Europe.
The Petitions Committee often offers the citizen a way of cutting through the bureaucracy of Europe to address issues affecting their lives.
I am talking about only a very modest increase in the sums available, but this would send out a very big message to the European people.
According to Eurobarometer, 87% of citizens recognise their right to go to the European Ombudsman.
I have no personal interest in this, but we need to ensure that there is adequate funding for the Ombudsman to have the staff and resources to cope with the enlargement of Europe.
Times are hard for Europe and even harder for the wider world.
We should be confident of our potential and abilities as Europeans.
Unfortunately it cannot currently be guaranteed.
The debates that we will be having this year, which will also have an influence on next year's Budget, will be on issues such as the Convention, enlargement, future economic progress, and the prospects for peace.
I have said in every Budget debate that we have to have equal rights in every area of the Budget, and I will stop saying this only when we actually are, and the Convention has a chance of making this happen and, in the Budget procedure too, even in matters of agricultural policy, of giving both parts of the budgetary authority equal powers.
Parliament is one of the two component parts of the decision-making authority, and we will not allow the Council to present us with faits accomplis in these matters.
As far as Europe's economic development is concerned, many of those who have already spoken have said that we have to further develop the internal market - that internal market that many saw as pointing in the right direction and that raised their hopes; but unemployment in Europe is as much an issue now as ever it was.
In recent years, we have refunded EUR 14 billion on one occasion, EUR 11 billion on another, and this year we will be refunding EUR 7 billion - resources that have not been used, in the Structural Funds for example, to combat unemployment.
Europe is undergoing demographic change - and this is where we have to look slightly further ahead - in that it has an every-increasing number of older people and ever fewer young people.
It is important for us to set aside the necessary funds for the continued development of administration, training and social dialogue in the new Member States.
I am delighted that, in this budget process, we can also welcome our future fellow MEPs from the new Member States.
I think that, with their more detailed knowledge of our new neighbours, they will have some good ideas as to how, in the future, we can generally develop the Tacis programmes and also ensure that they are efficiently implemented.
The discussions held by the Convention's working groups have only been interpreted into two or three languages.
As the Convention is called the Convention on the Future, language restrictions and the destruction of national linguistic identities would seem to be the future of the EU.
When distance interpreting is mentioned, I am not sure that that means distance interpreting for all languages.
Otherwise, the guidelines for the budgetary procedure are on such a general level that there are only a few general remarks to make.
Many in our group oppose the introduction of financial support for Europarties, as the parties would then become supranational.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, the defining of a strategy for the coming year provides us with an excellent opportunity to set priorities.
In its policy strategy for 2004, the Commission chooses the accession of ten new Member States to the EU first of all, followed by stability, and lastly sustainable growth.
The Commission should adopt a more modest attitude in this regard and should not take on so many tasks.
The elaboration of this policy area in concrete terms, however, is once again at odds with our idea of security and stability in Europe.
The most important partner in the global fight against terrorism and in maintaining international stability is missing from beside what is known as the 'new neighbours initiative', or 'ring of friends' policy.
Congratulations are due to Mr Mulder for his commendable report on the guidelines for the 2004 budgetary procedure.
European political parties are by definition much further removed from the bed of our citizens than national parties.
Firstly, on political party funding - the matter just raised by Mr van Dam - my Group considers that this funding should be in Parliament's, not the Commission's budget.
The reason is that we can be accountable: the rules are already set down and agreed between the three institutions.
An amendment has been tabled and I urge Members to vote - perhaps against their own groups - for Parliament to have control of the political party funding budget.
That calls on the Secretary-General to submit a report by 1 June 2004 outlining 'the functional justifications for the new building projects'.
That is a very important matter and, in future, we at least will be requiring functional justification before spending is approved.
Think of the language difficulties for Members from the new countries.
Finally, there is a reference in the report to the Court of Auditors.
There are four main European policies which will contribute to enlargement: cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, the TENs policy and the policy for cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises.
To this end, it would be beneficial to enhance the current instruments and the current pilot project on enlargement and SMEs and take the opportunity afforded by the mid-term review of Agenda 2000 to give a clear boost to the measures facilitating the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The budget before us will be the first to be drafted for a Community of 25 Member States.
This is a very challenging undertaking technically speaking, as the budget will apply to 15 Member States for the first four months and 25 Member States for the rest of the year.
It will improve the transparency of the budget and give a better picture of the work that is done within the framework of the European Union.
Activity-based budgeting provides a straight answer to the question of what each activity actually costs.
Mr President, the Commission has emphasised in its communication that enlargement of the European Union will be the core challenge of 2004.
For many citizens in the European Union's regions, the projects that depend on such funds are often the last fragile hope for the maintenance of their jobs.
Parliament has been concerned about both these issues for some time now.
Mr President, the war about to be waged in Iraq in the interests of American imperialism and its allies, is not just an inhumane war; it will have a huge impact on the economy of the European Union and will palpably reduce working class incomes and the revenue of the European Union.
The accession of the new Member States, whose GDP is below the Community average and whose needs are greater, will also cause severe problems.
The European Union 2004 budget guidelines are all about cutting spending on the structural funds and the common agricultural policy and funding the repressive, aggressive common European defence and security policy, using the fight against terrorism and immigration, crisis management and conflict prevention as an excuse.
All this does is to prove that the budget is still an anti-grass roots budget and that the sacrifices imposed on the workers in the interests of the monopolies are continuing, in the Lisbon vein now, with increased exploitation, attacks on workers' employment and insurance rights, galloping unemployment, environmental disasters and even greater commercialisation of health, education and social services.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece are opposed to these budget guidelines because, instead of resolving the problems of workers, farmers and small enterprises, they will create new ones and the standard of living of people in the candidate countries will fall.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a number of remarks that have been made about these Budget lines from the point of view of foreign policy.
Traditionally, in the Member States, foreign policy is a matter for governments, but the parliaments are involved via the budget procedure, which enables them to influence foreign policy and the government's setting of priorities.
As there is something of a lack at European level of any counterpart to this sort of democratic control, we welcome the attention given by the Convention to a wider range of options for Parliament to exert influence on fundamental issues of finance for foreign policy concerns.
Above all, we welcome the fact that it was possible, in the course of the 2003 Budget procedure, to come to an agreement with the Council on information concerning measures in the area of foreign and security policy.
It is for this reason that we consider particularly important the passage in the guidelines in which Parliament lays renewed emphasis on its willingness to work together with the Council on the common foreign and security policy, and on its own insistence on its involvement to the fullest possible extent in budgeting for joint actions, planning them and taking decisions concerning them.
Still on the subject of foreign policy, let me make another observation concerning the ad hoc group that we have now set up to examine direct payments to the Palestinian National Authority.
I think this ad hoc group gives us a good opportunity to cooperate with the Commission in seeing exactly what has been done with European taxpayers' money.
We decided not to set up a committee of investigation, which would amount to laying charges at the outset, whereas we simply want to know how this direct aid worked and how we can organise it better in the future.
This is not so much a problem between Parliament and the Council as one between Parliament and the Commission, and we hope that, in the working group, the Commission will keep to its promise and be willing to work together with Parliament.
Madam President, when analysing what you, President Prodi, called the state of the Union and the related budgetary guidelines, we must take care, as you also said, to avoid two pitfalls.
The first would be to exaggerate our differences, while the second would be to consider them negligible.
If we are to establish a Community foreign policy, if we are to provide this enlarged Union with the means to defend its values, we must not be afraid of debate and, if we may, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps for the first time at this stage, let us discuss the financial resources that we will have to agree to release for this purpose.
As the rapporteur, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, for a report on the new architecture of the European security and defence policy, which will be voted on in committee at the end of this month, I welcome the opportunity to introduce this subject without further delay, just as I welcomed the information and signals received over the past few weeks, both from the Commission and from the Council.
With regard to the Council, first of all, at its meeting of 27 January last, the General Affairs Council, in deciding to take charge of the military operation in Macedonia, simultaneously decided to establish an operational financial mechanism designed to cover the share of related spending that will have to be cofunded by the European Union.
With regard to the Commission, I was equally interested to note the account of the recent meeting between you, President Prodi, and the Greek Defence Minister, Giannos Papantoniou, who apparently suggested including a new heading to fund research into defence within the EU budget.
In conclusion, Madam President, President Prodi, unless the Union provides itself with the necessary institutional, operational and financial means, it will be doomed to remain on the sidelines of the international playing field for a long time.
I am sure that this is not what the majority of our fellow European citizens want.
Madam President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my thanks to the Commission for having done as it promised to do last year and synchronised the debates on the coming year's policy strategy and Budget; I see today as an important occasion and one that bids us shoulder together this great shared responsibility for Europe and its inhabitants.
The questions with which we are faced are of course important ones, and, right now, I want to say one thing in very clear terms: Commissioner, it would be a very great help to us if we did not have to concern ourselves solely with questions that will become relevant after your term of office has expired, such as how we are to proceed after 2006, and what we can expect to face then.
I would have been glad if the Commission could have taken a line more openly sympathetic to Parliament in order to secure Parliament's rights, and hence the public interest in the transparency and openness of this process.
I have here an internal memorandum from the Commission, which reaches an assessment different from that which you set out in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The present perspectives would allow an additional 5 000 billion.
The same level of expenditure is planned for the 2004 budget.
We are therefore operating in austerity mode, which should please the Council.
Sound implementation is crucial for the 2004 budget.
Payment take up has been well below that forecast during the last three years.
Last year's declaration on implementation profiles and the plan to do away with the abnormal RAL must therefore be followed through.
The 2004 budget is crucial and represents a new departure for the Union.
So the crucial question is what democratic control there will be when we get a common defence policy.
In this area, democratic control is exercised primarily by way of the Budget procedure.
If we are to have to handle issues of war and peace in the same way as issues of foreign and security policy, such democratic control is even more important than in other areas.
For a start, we have to ensure that the military element of operational expenditure on peacekeeping and crisis management has a fixed place in the European Union's regular Budget and that we in Parliament get full powers of codecision.
Secondly, President Prodi, you said that joint actions were being undertaken in the European Union in the area of research and development, and in the purchase of armaments.
We know that the Convention is talking in terms of an armaments agency, and we must do all in our power to ensure that these Budget lines do not disappear into a shadow budget somewhere, a budget over which neither the European Parliament nor the twenty-five national parliaments will have any control, but rather that these items of expenditure are reflected in the regular Budget of the European Union.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this joint debate on the European Commission's political strategy for 2004, I am bound to recall that this is the first budget in an enlarged Europe covering the new Member States.
Nevertheless, and because the situation is not entirely rosy, I should like to make some criticisms of the European Commission document that has been presented to us today.
Specifically in the context of the cancellation of funds, it is my view that Rule N+2, which forces Member States to use funds within two years of their being programmed must be seen as an incentive for the rapid use of funds, without, however, compromising the quality of the expenditure undertaken.
With regard to the structural funds, I should also like to take this opportunity to draw the Commission's attention to a problem of which it has already been made aware: the accession of the new Member States will have the statistical effect of reducing the European Union's average GDP.
I wish to emphasise that this, as in fact the Commissioner for enlargement himself, Günter Verheugen, has said, constitutes wealth on paper, but not in reality.
Statistical indicators alone cannot justify terminating a cohesion policy for the current Member States.
It is entirely in the European Union's interest to see its current Member States enjoy high rates of growth, more employment and more opportunities.
Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the public - especially in the candidate countries - often makes the erroneous assumption that the European Union's Budget deals, in effect, only with agricultural policy.
It is even more important, in times of economic upheaval and renewal, for us to affirm and create social cohesion in order, among other things, to stabilise democracy and gain public acceptance in these new Member States.
In this context, the first is support for the social dialogue.
The second point is the need to improve conditions in the workplace.
Our work in the Member States treats health and safety at work as a priority, and the same must be true in the candidate countries.
The third point is that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has stressed our desire to have greater support, in every case, for the social platform as part of the action programme against social exclusion and discrimination.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like briefly to respond to some of the questions, which are extremely interesting.
First of all, he raised the issue of whether this perspective is just for five years or whether it is for seven years.
I personally am in favour of a five-year perspective, both because that would synchronise it with Parliament's work and because I feel that a seven-year perspective would be too long, that it would make control too difficult and extend beyond our powers of farsightedness.
The problem is not the number of Commissioners but the authority to organise and take decisions accorded to the President.
Whatever the number of Commissioners, the question is how to organise the Commission's work.
Indeed, the 'peace group' set up by Commissioner Lamy is concerned with this too.
Reforming the Commission has been a priority right from the beginning and, starting in 2004, we will have completely new Staff Regulations.
In any case, however, we must realise that, should a disciplinary procedure be necessary, all the rights of those involved in the procedure must be respected.
An agreement is imminent, but I must say that my impression is that Parliament is taking less interest in the matter today than it did some time ago.
I would like to take this opportunity to call for a last spurt so that an agreement can be achieved during the interinstitutional summit on 19 March.
I have pointed out the need for a debate - it would be useful to discuss the issue and we will submit solutions as soon as possible.
The Commission has presented - and it is supplementing that material today - an extremely precise plan with a clear policy which treats the Balkans as part of Europe.
I agree with what Mr Swoboda said regarding the issue of the visa policy - which he described as stupid - not because we do not need to be rigorous in protecting the Union's borders but because I genuinely feel that it is a policy which is in need of a complete overhaul.
I want to make it quite clear that we are fully aware of the difficulty of the situation, of the tragic events taking place, but we are also aware of the huge importance of maintaining a balanced approach which takes all the factors into account, of the need to give maximum consideration to the work of the United Nations, of the fact that the new strategy genuinely calls for stronger, universally supported international institutions, with regard to which Europe's role is indispensable.
Europe alone has succeeded in uniting with peace as its top priority, introducing and implementing a new concept of national interest and relating it to the common interest, behaving towards the countries which support it with openness and displaying, I would say, a new insight into world relations and issues.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Madam President, the Committee on Budgets decided that it would be wise to draw up a report on this subject.
As a consensus could not be reached on the person to draft it, it decided that the Chairman of the committee should also be the rapporteur and I was left with the wonderful task of putting this report together.
Because of that, I am wearing three hats at the same time - if that is possible.
I wear my third hat as a British Labour Member who is at odds with a number of amendments from his own political family, the PSE.
It is fair to say that the only change I attempted to make to this report was to try to merge Paragraphs 6 and 8 to make it more coherent.
However, I failed to achieve a consensus amongst the political groups and, therefore, the report stands as it is.
The vote was almost unanimous in committee, but there are one or two small points of disagreement on own-resources.
That is quite clear.
The own-resources system in this age of transparency is completely opaque and no one outside the Committee on Budgets or the Budget Directorate-General understands what it is about and how it is made up.
I hope when we vote on this - I am sure the vote will be successful - that we can send this along to the members of the Convention and that our Parliament representatives on the Convention can present this as Parliament's position for the future.
The chapter on finance should specify the most important budgetary principles and lay down the principal instruments, principles and, above all, rules whereby decisions are to be reached, as regards both outgoings and receipts.
The financial constitution would thereby lay down Parliament's budgetary rights.
Another is the proposal that the multiannual financial perspective should be incorporated into the constitution as an instrument; the consequence of this would be that, in future, the multiannual financial perspective would no longer be founded on an agreement, but would become a law enacted jointly by Parliament and the Council on the Commission's initiative.
When taking decisions on the own resources, it follows that the sensitivities of the Council and of the national parliaments must also be taken into account.
Even so, the European Parliament should be accorded the right of codecision in this area too.
The financial structure should reflect the fact that the EU is a union of Member States and of citizens.
The Commission has therefore, in its proposal, advocated more direct involvement in financing the European Budget.
I really do hope that there will be absolute consensus in the Convention, and that this distinction and the consequent curtailment of Parliament's budgetary rights will become a thing of the past.
The constitution's financial chapter should describe the whole of the Budget process in simple words and with unambiguous rules.
It should therefore also refer to the implementation of the Budget and specify not only the Commission's responsibilities but also the Member States' obligation to cooperate.
The Convention now affords us the opportunity to establish new rules, appropriate to the Union's development, for the European Budget, which is an important Community instrument.
Further, my group strongly supports adjustment of the current system of distinguishing between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
We endorse most of the proposals put forward by the Convention's working groups seeking to ensure the principle of a dual budgetary authority: Parliament and Council.
The Group of the European People's Party is of the opinion that the most effective way of ensuring this comes about is to formalise a balance between both branches of the budgetary authority.
We fully endorse the proposal by the Convention's working group to include financial perspectives in the treaty, together with provisions on discipline and budgetary cooperation.
Finally, reform of the budgetary procedure must be based on simplification with a view to greater democratisation, legitimacy and transparency.
We therefore fully endorse the proposal to do away with first reading in the Council, as this seems to be consistent with the objective of simplification.
I therefore believe updating is imperative.
Ladies and gentlemen, the constitution must encompass the budgetary process and own resources.
It is therefore necessary to move towards a system enabling this connection to be made without increasing the total tax burden on the citizens.
The rapporteur, the chairman of our committee and my esteemed fellow-Member from the British Labour Party have really given all groups ample opportunity to contribute their ideas and to attempt to reach a compromise.
Nevertheless, my group is not completely satisfied with the end result.
For example, we also wanted to make it very clear right from the outset how competences should be divided up.
The Council and Parliament should negotiate with each other to reach common agreement both on the structure and the ceiling of the financial resources for the EU budget and on the annual or multi-annual expenditure.
It is all very well to argue for an end to the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, but if we do not also have the power or codecision over the legislation, we are often left empty-handed.
In addition, the judgment of the Court of Justice on the legal basis has taught us that we cannot take any budgetary decisions in our own right without a legal basis.
I signal openly to the rapporteur that I will seek to remove this suggestion from what, as I have already said, is otherwise a very constructive report.
Farm income in Ireland and many other Member States is very much dependent on the direct income support from the European Union budget.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, under the process of revising and simplifying the Treaties, which is currently being debated in the Convention on the Future of Europe, the European Parliament has taken the opportunity to apply itself to the reform of the European Union's budgetary procedure.
In fact, year after year, reform after reform, the budgetary procedure has been amended on an informal basis, by means of political agreements between the various institutions involved.
These informal amendments have rendered the current text redundant and obsolete.
The next constitutional Treaty must contain articles covering the principles that govern the budget and the procedures for approving it.
I wish to express my full and unequivocal agreement with the proposals for reform that have been tabled.
Firstly, because I believe we must seize this opportunity to review the issue of the European Union's funding.
The contribution of the Member States must be appropriate and in proportion to the objectives that the European Union wishes to achieve.
It is entirely utopian to set objectives, such as those of the Lisbon Summit, which uphold the current financial framework.
Secondly, because I can see that, in addition to these new challenges, a new reality is approaching: a European Union with 25 Member States.
In this context, the Structural Funds will reveal their fundamental importance, on the one hand, to achieving economic and social cohesion in the new States and, on the other, to continuing the progress that has been made in the current Member States.
Thirdly, because I believe that the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure and their respective procedures has become artificial.
In this context, budgetary expenditure for the common agricultural policy (CAP) would then be studied by the European Parliament under the codecision procedure.
Greater involvement of the European Parliament in the CAP can only be positive for farmers and for rural development.
This will provide greater control over the use of funds.
It is also worth adding that the CAP is becoming increasingly diffuse, incorporating new dimensions, such as rural development, conservation of the environment and food safety and quality, and consequently requires funding that corresponds to this new state of affairs, which is of the utmost importance to European citizens.
By the European Parliament having this greater ability to act, the economic, social and environmental interests of European farmers will be safeguarded.
Neither what we receive from VAT or out of gross domestic income can really be described as the European Union's own resources.
Quite the opposite: it is an eminently political subject: it concerns our ability to give substance to European integration and demonstrate our solidarity through action.
That means going beyond the sterile little game of defending national privileges and territory in the short term.
Let us therefore have the political courage necessary to demand a genuine reform which, I reiterate, includes, specifically, removing the distinction between mandatory and non-mandatory spending, establishing a European tax and laying down uniform rules for all the Member States.
The Convention must establish a genuine codecision procedure, within which framework Parliament and the Council can work together as equals to handle all aspects of the Community budget and the other financial instruments available to European politicians.
This method alone will make it possible to strengthen the democratic nature of the European budget decisively and to bring the citizens closer to our institutions, as we want with all our hearts.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
I am sure that the proposals on comitology presented last December by the Commission and the proposals in the recent texts submitted to the Convention are also the result of this work.
It is an important linguistic clarification, but the primary amendment in this regard is Amendment no 13.
My suggestion, if the rapporteur agrees, would be to vote on Amendment No 13 first and then to vote on the relevant parts of Amendment No 48 and the linguistic dimensions therein.
Mr President, I, too, think it would be right to vote on Amendment No 13 first, but I do believe that, in the event of Amendment No 13 being adopted - which I hope it will be - all the others will lapse.
Before the vote on Amendment No 16: Mr President, I wish to ask whether, following the vote on Amendment No 13, Amendments Nos 56 and 57 should now lapse.
If I understand correctly, Amendments Nos 56 and 57 concern conditions for granting licences for port operators to undertake self-handling.
Before the vote on Amendment No 45: Mr President, my group believes that this amendment should not fall even if Amendment No 24 is adopted.
The rapporteur seems adamant.
The second split should be the remainder of that amendment.
The reason we have a reference here is to try to take a decision as to whether, under the proposal from the Commission, the funding should be moved to Parliament's budget or not.
It is important that we leave it in the Commission's budget.
Therefore I suggest that we support Amendment No 8 as it stands.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE .
That is why the British Conservatives welcome this report and congratulate all of those who have helped to bring forward these long-overdue measures.
In this context, I think that this plan in particular could be linked with European transport policy and seek for example, to provide safer alternatives to road transport as swiftly as possible.
Mr Pirker's proposal responds to the steady increase in the production and trade in synthetic drugs.
I support this proposal, which transforms the current directive into a Regulation, allowing legislation to be simplified, making it easier to implement - in a uniform and concurrent way - (which is even more important in the context of enlargement).
As if this were not serious enough, reports from international bodies such as the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB), have also revealed that the production of and trade in synthetic drugs continues to increase.
Lastly, I believe it is equally crucial to adopt measures on Internet sites that promote the sale of these substances and provide information on how to produce them. . (PT) I have voted in favour of all of these four reports by Mrs Frassoni, despite some difficulties that this matter raises.
I therefore agree with the assessment made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stating that it is not the intention of the European Parliament to usurp implementing powers pertaining to the Commission: what it is actually seeking to do is to introduce a system that will enable it properly to exercise control and, if necessary, to contest an implementing measure with which it does not agree when this falls under the codecision procedure.
My group, or at least D66, voted for this directive to provide for the possibility of fair competition in ports and to prevent social dumping.
In addition, the Member States and the port authorities, in particular, must lay down conditions in the field of safety and environmental protection.
Mr President, the ports of Harwich, Felixstowe and Tilbury are in my constituency.
Hundreds of dockworkers are concerned today about this directive, one I believe was never required in the first place, mistaking, as it does, competition within ports for the real aim, which should be competition between ports.
Above all, with a 36-year phase-in period where there is major investment, I believe that no dockworkers currently working in Harwich, Felixstowe or Tilbury need have their jobs affected for their lifetime.
Existing ports are being given the opportunity to start providing more services in any sector they deem profitable, in contrast to the public administration and central service provider which takes care of necessary - if unprofitable - activities.
Corporations providing port services must comply with transparency requirements in their financial dealings with the public authorities.
The directive specifically mentions staff.
The directive under examination, however, calls into question the social rights of workers, the subject of self-help being the paradigmatic example: it would allow self-handling to be entrusted to 'land-based personnel' employed by shipowners, which would probably lead to this work being taken away from professional docker workers and other qualified technical personnel and given instead to cheaper, unqualified workers.
The rebellion and despair of these men in the face of a directive produced by the hawks of economic globalisation is understandable. - (NL) The ports between Hamburg in Germany and Le Havre in France, and all the Dutch and Belgian ports in-between, see the most competition of all ports.
The effects of a ports directive, which aims to encourage competition in order to drive down the price of port activity, are the most far-reaching in precisely those ports.
The port or port town that has the strictest requirements regarding safety, environment, quality of work and working conditions loses the competition, and the worst port is the winner.
The reluctance shown by some companies merely demonstrates a categorical rejection of the opening up of port services to competition.
The formal declarations on maintaining public service obligations, the guarantee of jobs and the preservation of safety and the environment in ports - which are perfectly legitimate objectives that nobody is disputing - conceal the far less noble desire to defend monopolies, in particular trade union monopolies, that some believe to be untouchable.
The implementation of a large-scale project such as 'Port 2000' in Le Havre, the largest French port in terms of container goods trading, clearly shows that our ports and companies in the sector are not afraid of the introduction of a more competitive dynamic into port services.
For these reasons and because these problems also affect other countries in the European Union, the Jarzembowski report on port services warrants our full consideration.
Every Member State must be able, for reasons of public interest, to maintain the current system, taking account of specific local characteristics.
This report is marked by the way in which it maintains a degree of balance between liberalising port services and demonstrates ongoing concern for social legislation on worker protection, maritime safety and environmental protection in sensitive regions.
This balance has already been achieved in the liberalisation of air and rail transport.
With regard to social and labour legislation, the rights of workers in EU ports must be safeguarded.
Since I believe pilotage to be a job that requires considerable experience and which is extremely important to the safety of maritime traffic in ports, I agree with the majority vote achieved in this Parliament, which I supported with my vote in favour of the report. . (PT) My vote is intended above all to highlight three points that I believe are crucial: firstly, what is known as 'self-handling', must not be surreptitiously subverted, opening the door to all types of opportunism and market distortion.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the committee where these aspects are concerned.
With regard to pilotage services, we agree with the proposal that the nature of these is such that they ought not to be covered by the directive. - (NL) The reason for the port strikes is the section in the port package on self-handling, in particular.
This also applies to the position of the pilots, the duration of concessions, social conditions for workers, transparency with regard to state aid and the freedom of ports to develop.
As far as the first point is concerned, Parliament's amendments make clear what is expected of the Commission, and within what time limit.
With all its - unavoidable - shortcomings, I accept Parliament's position; in order, in any case, not to give the Council a free rein and in order to spur the Member States on to action. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) The rapporteur recalls the low level of payments set and accepts the trend of reducing the EU budget's share of Community GNI/GNP.
We are now seeing further problems with defining priorities, such as that given to the Lisbon strategy, or to issues of immigration and asylum.
The rapporteur also concedes on the need for changes to national budgetary policy when he accepts the current framework of financial perspectives and even the existing limitations in internal and external policies.
He does so to the point of contradicting himself, where Afghanistan is concerned, stating on the one hand, that he would not reduce support for other regions but then says, on the other hand, that he intends to evaluate the possibilities of redeploying the budget and of making it more flexible.
With the almost 5 million unemployed in the Federal Republic and with the negative rates recorded in many other countries too - both Member States and candidate countries - how can we be optimistic about these priorities? (Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) The Copenhagen European Council confirmed the outcome of the accession process involving ten candidate countries and negotiations were concluded on the basis of a financial package totalling EUR 41 billion, which will enable the financial perspective to be adjusted and will form the basis of the budget for 2004, which also increased with the entry into force of the Treaty of Nice, on 1 February 2003.
We voted in favour of the report because, where internal policy is concerned, the text recalls that the completion of the internal market, the implementation of the Lisbon strategy and the strategy for sustainable development remain the European Union's three main objectives and will take on particular importance in 2004, when the new Member States start participating.
It is also to be welcomed that the emphasis is placed on measures supporting SMEs, as creators of employment and economic growth and also on the absolute need for the global war on terrorism.
This is, in short, a report that properly expresses the Union's political guidelines with a view to including them in the 2004 budget.
It should be added that the report's idea of improving the technical assistance given to Members is a fine one; indeed Members must be given the best assistance possible in order to enable them to undertake their legislative and budgetary duties, whilst at the same time improving the performance of their work in order to minimise as much as possible the impact of staff being based in three different working places.
Although I do not agree with other points, specifically with the idea of the Commission's managing funds intended for the European political parties, a task which should be transferred to Parliament for obvious democratic reasons, the broad thrust of the report is to be welcomed as it was in ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) We have today chosen to vote in favour of the report on a reform of the budgetary procedure.
The report contains a number of important measures in the area of the budget.
It is proposed, for example, that the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure be abolished.
Clearly, Parliament must have influence upon agricultural expenditure too.
We are, however, completely opposed to a system that could lead to Parliament's being given influence over how much money is to be allocated to the EU.
Eurostat tells us that we currently have almost 14 million unemployed.
The primary causes of this are the failure to resolve structural problems in the Member States, such as bloated bureaucracies, the distortion of competition by the failure to remove subsidies, and extremely high unemployment among women, young people, older workers and people with disabilities.
I agree with the Council and the Commission in their assessment that the new guidelines should be tightened up for the sake of greater efficiency.
We need, above all, evidence of their having been transposed and of resultant changes in labour markets.
The tax laws of many Member States are inimical to enterprise and employment.
Reducing VAT on services up to the end of this year was the right way to go about it.
It is always a matter of balance between, on the one hand, greater flexibility, and, on the other, long-term security.
The presentation of the results was followed by an extended debate between all the European institutions.
As a result, the Commission presented a document in January containing a new approach to the Employment Strategy.
Thus, despite the positive evaluation of the results of the Employment Strategy, with reforms in all the Member States and ten million new jobs created between 1997 and 2001; despite the positive approach, there can be no doubt that we need to activate more policies and speed up the reforms.
This last point brings me to timetabling.
The second is to submit the guidelines as quickly as possible after that, as a package.
This means that, once we have the spring Council's guidelines, the Commission will present a package of guidelines on both economic policy and employment.
This is very important if we are to avoid overlaps and ensure that one procedure does not take precedence over the other.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his report, which I see, moreover, as a courageous one.
In order to prevent that happening, and precisely because we can see it coming, we should be focusing on this in particular.
One cannot help but see that if a country has very high unemployment and this unemployment does not go down, something is not right.
That is the way to bring it together.
The Lisbon process must be kept on the rails even in difficult times.
On behalf of my group, I can tell you that the Commission's new approach to the employment strategy has been received very favourably in our camp.
In our opinion, it also means that the economic guidelines should actually be economic and social guidelines, on which not only the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs express their opinion, but also the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs, the Ministers for Education and possibly the Ministers for Science Policy.
In the opinion of our group, this means that the Stability and Growth Pact must also fulfil its role as a growth pact and must enable counter-cyclical operation in the Member States and breathe life into the economy.
My group fully agrees with the Commission that greater coherence is also needed in the coordination in the social sphere; that is to say, between the pensions issue, the pension process, the poverty process and the health process.
We fully agree that more attention should be paid to an effective implementation of the employment strategy.
That is why we also say to the Convention that the open coordination method must be incorporated into the Constitution not only with regard to employment but also to the social process, in order to guarantee more democratic legitimacy and transparency.
Such a report does not lend itself to national political deliberations or ideological debates on specific points of this or that policy orientation.
My group is therefore inclined to reject these amendments.
Furthermore, we must also become much better at monitoring and ensuring that the Member States do in fact feel bound by the fine promises given at the Lisbon Summit, and this also applies to the large countries.
There was disagreement over one area in particular, namely the conditions under which small businesses operate, together with their role in employment policy.
It is also precisely this route that my group too wishes to go down.
In brief, we have a situation in which statistics show that, of ten new businesses, there is perhaps only one, or possibly two, that will survive the first three or four years.
We could unite all the political groups in this Parliament around a progressive policy in this area, a policy that would take our overarching objectives and the Lisbon strategy's objectives seriously, that is to say 'good jobs for all'.
The report that eventually came out of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was indeed a reasonable report.
Consequently we are going to be supporting the amendment on that which will be coming from another group this afternoon.
Because we felt that what came out overall had a sense of balance to it, we are not going to be supporting many of the other amendments seeking to reinstate certain parts of the original text, e.g.
We do not agree that the General Agreement on Trade in Services will be a job engine, either here or in the developing world.
What concerns us as well is that the present text again lacks a mechanism for sustainability, that is, an environmental dimension that really must be incorporated into all that we are doing.
In our delegation visits from this committee, we have found all too often that national parliaments do not have a clue that these plans even exist and they certainly have not participated in them.
Indeed, we all know that, as regards taxation, if we want to implement the recommendations made we have three options, which can either be treated as alternatives or employed in parallel: the Stability Pact and its durability, particularly with regard to the possibility of complete exemption for SMEs for the first three years, in view of their substantial contribution to national GDP; a review of the areas covered by the subsidiarity system; or, again, a review of the areas requiring a unanimity vote in the Council.
The same may be said of incentives to promote employment, as the rapporteur calls them, which are considered to be a different matter from flexibility and bureaucratic relief.
If they are, then they are direct examples of State aid pursuant to Article 87(3)(a) and (c) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which, as the rapporteur is aware, only apply in areas identified in 1998, apparently without possibility of amendment, not even where situations have changed with the passage of time.
Madam President, the economic doctrine of the European Union in general and this report in particular create an impression of total disassociation between, on the one hand, declarations of principle, good intentions and an honourable debate on employment, and, on the other, the terrible, distressing social reality of global competition and the economic war.
Of course, we all recognise that encouraging investment and enterprise fosters job creation; that reducing fiscal pressure and bureaucratic constraints boosts activity; and that training young people and older people to enable them to enter or remain in the world of work is a good thing.
Having broken down these open doors, however, having explained that, in addition to employment and growth, a third, environmental dimension is required, not to mention the objective of promoting health and well-being in the workplace, having listed all these good intentions, we must wake up, leave behind our daydreams and come back to reality.
And that is a severe shock: instability, social plans, delocalisation, social dumping, increasing unemployment, mass immigration, falling growth, demographic collapse and a social protection system about to implode.
It is clear that the Union's economic policy of opening up its internal market to global competition is selling off what is left of our labour-intensive industries.
Allowing irresponsible free-trade extremists and globalisation fundamentalists to take charge of the future of our economies and our social structures is dangerous.
For ourselves as Christian Democrats, it is extremely important that an employment strategy and a strategy for social welfare in Europe should combine fixed, stable values, built upon the ethical and moral basis that is European cultural history, with a social, market-oriented economy.
I would emphasise that, in this context, we are concerned with both social and economic values and not, therefore, with a free-market economy devoid of ethical, moral and social values.
Item 37 indicates the value of combining working life and family life and of giving more time to children.
This report is therefore about seeing the Stockholm European Council's decision of March 2001 on the demographic challenge as one of the absolutely most important issues for Europe.
Item 37 emphasises this extremely clearly.
Mr President, I should like to make a couple of brief remarks.
In my opinion, we should also adapt the economic policy to the social policy.
I am in agreement with the main objectives of the new employment policy and should like to call attention in particular to the second objective.
In other words, I think that we need to do some work on this in the coming period.
Lastly, I think - and hope - that the Council will also commit itself in the coming period to implementing the method of working which we have adopted together, namely the open coordination method, without any kind of deviation.
Mr President, I also wish to join with the others in thanking the rapporteur for his work on a very important topic which has become even more so in the last year because of the increase in unemployment across many economies in the European Union.
Whatever side of the political divide we come from, we all agree that more needs to be done to achieve a more effective Europe-wide employment strategy.
In particular, the guidelines need to be simplified and reduced.
We need to create proper conditions for full and stable employment to improve quality and productivity at work and labour market cohesion.
Our strategy requires not only that people be given training and skills but also that there be no discrimination between men and women.
We must maintain and improve the incentive to work.
These issues are exclusively for Member States.
If a Member State, or a group of Member States, wishes to follow the best practices of another Member State, then so be it.
My last point concerns my own amendment to Paragraph 24.
The purpose is to boost consumer confidence through proper corporate social responsibility, which can create and contribute to higher innovation performance.
However, the question of taxation has to remain outside the responsibility.
Now that five years have passed since this strategy was launched, this is the right time to assess the experience, to evaluate its weak points and to try to provide responses that are both realistic and bold, to the emerging challenges that are common to the current and future Member States and bring them into line with the aims of the Lisbon strategy.
One of these issues is that of active ageing as a response to the demographic challenge, whilst not forgetting young people and the least-favoured social groups.
Recent history has shown that the greater the involvement of regional and local policies in policies adopted at national and at European level, the more the strategy for employment has to gain.
The importance of the role of the social partners, civil society and non-governmental organisations in achieving the objective of full employment and of better jobs for all cannot be over-emphasised.
The report rightly highlights the role of the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular.
These have indeed been the driving force behind job creation in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusions of the Lisbon Council, the various reports voted upon here in Parliament dealing with employment have consistently highlighted the need to strike a balance between quantitative and qualitative development of employment, or between economic development and social development.
The strategy implemented has made genuine progress possible, and, as has been stated, Commissioner, we fully support the proposals regarding the way in which you plan to follow up this work.
Today, however, in a difficult context, a context of waves of company restructuring and mass redundancies that are increasing instability on the job market, the European Parliament must once again send out a strong, clear signal.
We do not want second-class jobs or deskilled casual work, as you are proposing.
Nor do we want a policy that insists on seeing fiscal pressure as the cause of all evils in this matter.
I shall end, Mr President, by saying that, in promoting employment strategy and social policy in the European Union, which is the title of the report, we cannot overlook the principles of solidarity and social cohesion, which are guarantees of the prosperity of our economies.
We must start to show an interest in this kind of debate and initiative.
Then, because of the ambitious goals we set ourselves, the Lisbon Summit was a decisive step, with the goals being updated each year by specific indicators, just as the Commission's assessment of the national plans and the respective recommendations are a point of reference and an incentive to follow the example of those countries which are more successful than others in obtaining positive results by means of a proactive policy involving the social partners at all levels.
Each year, the European Parliament has consistently succeeded in its resolutions in finding the right balance between flexibility and security and putting economic policy, employment policy and social policy on an equal footing.
I have already referred to two groups in particular need of protection or initiatives, namely the young and older people who have lost their job.
Mr Mann's report takes account of all these considerations.
The Commission's communication and reform must therefore be more than welcome.
Mr Mann, more jobs is not synonymous with full employment.
If these amendments are adopted, I shall therefore be obliged to vote against your report, Mr Mann, along with many other Members in my delegation.
There are many points that I welcome in his report; the recognition of the need to deliver the Lisbon conclusions, the encouragement and support for SMEs and the need to improve employment of disadvantaged groups in society.
There was an interesting report in the UK press at the weekend about Germany: Chancellor Schröder was apparently finding it increasingly difficult to get acceptance of much-needed labour market reforms because the social partners were blocking them.
Mr President, Commissioner, today we are debating the future of the European Employment Strategy, at a time when the economy is seriously overshadowed by the threat of war in Iraq, rising oil prices and economic problems in the countries in the eurozone.
Unfortunately, the current labour market is not dynamic enough to create new jobs.
We also note that exploitation is rife among women, with over 250 000 women working at home with absolutely no social protection.
The European Employment Strategy recognises the role that women can play in increasing employment rates, and we are delighted that it is moving towards eroding the differentials between men and women as far as wages and the representation of women in all sectors of the economy are concerned.
We are also delighted, Commissioner, with the importance you have attached to gender mainstreaming in all sectors.
The first concerns the objectives of the spring Council.
However, we must bear in mind that the quantitative target of full employment by 2010 set in Lisbon depended on two basic preconditions: 3% annual growth and the implementation of a reform package.
In several countries growth is below 3%; in fact, a number of countries have almost zero growth, which by definition will make it very difficult to achieve our targets.
The message, as far as reforming the Employment Strategy is concerned, is that we cannot insist on reforms relating to the labour market and to the modernisation of social systems and to another set of policies relating to the employment strategy.
My third point has to do with women.
Of the ten million jobs created between 1997 and 2001, 75% were filled by women, a clear signal that our targets are being achieved and our polices are effective.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
What is at stake, after all, is the stability and development of our single currency, the euro.
At present, the voting modalities in the European Central Bank are as follows: we have twelve central bank presidents - or governors, if you will - plus six central bank directors, making a total of 18 votes.
I hope that Great Britain will be one of them, but some countries from the Central and Eastern European accession candidates will undoubtedly join too, which means that it is essential to consider how these voting modalities can be amended and adjusted to the new dimension, given that in future, some 15, 20 or 25 countries may be part of the euro-zone.
Let me cite just a few examples: it proposes forming three groups of countries, although it is very difficult to explain why any country is in a specific group.
Of course, this system is not remotely transparent, especially since a rotation system would then be introduced.
In practice, this could mean that a large country belonging to the first group would look precisely at when it is not entitled to vote, in a bid to influence the agenda and ensure that important items are excluded from the agenda when it has no right to vote.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - quite rightly, in my view - has now said that this model is not functional, transparent or efficient for such an important body as the Governing Council.
For this reason - and let me cite the relevant passage in English to conclude my brief speech - we are asking for 'calls for proposals to be made by the Convention in view of its adoption'.
The model advocated by the Central Bank does help to ensure efficiency.
The Commission is of the opinion that taking the European Central Bank's proposal as a point of departure, the rotation model may be improved by reducing the maximum number of voting rights on the Governing Council.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we will all - institutions and politicians alike - have to review and reshape our communication strategies, priorities and working methods, but also our decision-making and opinion-forming processes in the light of the European Union's enlargement to what will probably be more than 30 states - if we include the Balkan countries - but also in the light of the political challenges which are being set for us and which we are setting ourselves.
There is absolutely no reason why this decision should be adopted hastily, as the rapporteur has already pointed out.
We can continue in familiar fashion and prepare a fundamental reform with the next Intergovernmental Conference.
The fundamental reform which is necessary, and which we intend, differs in one key respect.
The solution is not rotation but weighting.
This weighting could be based on the weighting in the Council, but must build primarily on economic and financial market policy parameters.
We do not want new forms of discrimination, but more integration and therefore greater clarity for the public.
Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur: the proposal submitted for reform of the voting in the ECB Governing Council is not a step in the right direction.
We must therefore know how the decisions are shaped, but there is still time for that at the next Intergovernmental Conference.
Our key concern is to gain an overview of the various perspectives on monetary policy.
Mr President, the European Liberal Democrats also reject the European Central Bank's proposal for a change in the way it takes decisions once the 10 candidate countries join the eurozone.
The ECB proposal would create a third class of Member State with fewer chances of voting and, outrageously, only candidate countries would be in this inferior grouping.
Tiny Luxembourg gets a special lift into the second group thanks to its financial markets, even though it has had a central bank for substantially fewer years than many of the candidate countries, including Poland and Hungary.
We support instead an Executive Board of nine members, as Mr Friedrich has mentioned, taking operational decisions, plus a wider Governing Council that would involve all Member States' central bank governors in strategic decisions, such as the definition of price stability, and the emphasis on other objectives, such as monetary reference values.
Mr President, Commissioner, before us is a compromise which has achieved only one clear objective, that of unanimous consensus in the Governing Council, which is not exactly what the European Central Bank needs to prepare for enlargement.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities between parliaments, governments and independent authorities - the independence of the European Central Bank is a valuable asset which has worked well and must be safeguarded - does not give independent authorities the power to decide on their working procedures or, as in this case, on changes to the working mechanisms, particularly where it is a question of enlarging a club.
It is clear that the current members of the club have presented a proposal which, first and foremost, affords themselves and their prerogatives some protection against the prerogatives of the members who will join the club in the future.
I believe that we must somehow go back to square one and that the Commission must produce its own proposal, taking Parliament's recommendations into consideration.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted a clear position on the ECB Governing Council's proposal, Commissioner, but the Commission, unfortunately, has not done so.
We want the Council of Heads of State or Government to devise and adopt a different model, with other weighting criteria being used in this context.
The draft on changes to the voting modalities proposed by the ECB Governing Council and endorsed by the European Commission, is unnecessary and unjust.
With this model, you will create a two-class system among the members of the ECB Governing Council, with the governors of the smaller countries' central banks suffering a severe curtailment of their rights.
I have proposed that in addition to a simple majority of votes, at least half the population of the Member States of the eurozone must be represented.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union, or at least some representatives of countries that are allegedly more important than the others, is suffering from a mystery illness, Gulliver's syndrome.
Whether within the Convention or in bodies such as the European Central Bank, representatives of the large countries believe they are under threat of being tied up by a gang of small countries, which are by definition irresponsible and which, following enlargement, will form the majority within the Council in terms of numbers.
Although it is true that the European Union theoretically brings together States that are equal in rights and duties, some, like George Orwell's pigs, believe themselves to be more equal than others.
The history of the European Union does not provide a single example of an alliance of Lilliputians against the Gullivers of Europe.
In fact, every case of obstruction in Europe, from de Gaulle's empty chair policy to Maggie Thatcher's famous 'I want my money back', has been the work of the large countries.
The Stability and Growth Pact was invented to establish budgetary discipline in the so-called 'Club Med' countries in order to guarantee the external value of the euro.
The Pact is respected by the small countries, but far less by the large countries.
The result of all these fears is the ECB proposal to restrict the number of governors deciding on monetary policy.
President Duisenberg claims that governors do not vote according to their national interests, that there are, in fact, no votes and that monetary policy is decided by consensus.
We are told that it will no longer be possible to vote when there are 25 Members.
Although a discussion between 25 Members would certainly be longer, a vote for or against a change to key interest rates can take place just as easily with 25 as with 18 or 9 governors.
The Friedrich report proposes to restrict monetary policy decisions to an Executive Board of nine Members, which would be selected on the basis of the two-fold criteria of the population of each country and the total size of its economy and the relative size within it of the financial services sector.
As regards this latter point, the Friedrich report is in line with the unanimous proposal of the Governing Council.
However, there are still some doubts in relation to all these proposals.
Mr President, Commissioner, we all know that, in a larger EU, the ECB must be reformed, but the proposal presented by the ECB has not been sufficiently worked out.
Ordinary people too must in fact be able to understand them and how they work.
The principle should be one of 'one member, one vote'.
Finally, we must in fact also strengthen Parliament's role.
Everyone seems to agree that reform is necessary.
That means that, in the extremely near future, not all Member States' voices will be heard.
Mr Friedrich's report, considerably compromised by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, proposes fundamental principles: the principle of one member one vote and principles concerning representativeness, transparency and accountability and about taking the lead in devising a new decision-making model that will be more efficient but also designed in such a way that all members still participate.
For myself, coming as I do from a country that is facing a crucial referendum on exchanging the krona for the euro, it feels only right and sensible to recommend a decision-making model that can be efficient and responsive in the long term and, at the same time, give everyone the opportunity to participate in a process in which it is also possible to demand accountability.
This was true, in particular, when, by means of a report presented in autumn 2000, we tried to discuss it within the context of our work on enlargement.
Today, it would be hasty to take a decision solely on the basis of the work of the European Central Bank.
Essentially, I believe that the Convention can undo what the Treaty of Nice has done.
The Convention must be able to reverse proposals from the Central Bank because what is basically proposed is a change to the system, whether this involves the establishment of a rotation mechanism or differentiation between the decisions taken within the Central Bank.
Essentially, once again, I believe that we cannot reject the entire proposal made by the Central Bank, for example the idea of restricting the number of members of the Governing Council if we want this body to be able to continue to take decisions.
The first criterion is that the distribution of power between the Executive Board and the Governing Council must be examined carefully to ensure that the Bank is in a position to take decisions.
The third criterion concerns the Bank's ability to define monetary policy in the interests of the whole euro zone.
I believe we should examine the Central Bank's proposal in light of these three criteria, and, in particular, it is in light of these three criteria that the Convention - because I think this decision is principally the responsibility of the Convention - will have to propose a solution for the future of decision-making within the Central Bank.
It is nonetheless inconceivable, Mr President, that we throw away the euro in this way.
Mr President, I am pleased that the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets yesterday opted to support what is also the Finnish Government's policy, according to which any reform proposed by the Council cannot serve as a basis for decision-making.
The work of the European Central Bank's main decision-making body must be reformed in order for effective decision-making to be possible after enlargement.
The existing version of Article 10(2) of the Statute of the European Central Bank states that the ECB Governing Council takes its decisions by a simple majority.
Moreover, the rotation model being proposed by the ECB violates several principles which both Parliament and the central bank governors themselves used to consider of vital importance.
Mr President, let me make it clear from the outset that I did not vote for the report that was adopted yesterday evening in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Even if - as was agreed yesterday as a compromise in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - the two objective criteria of GDP and TAPs were additionally considered, this would result in a far less balanced system than the ECB model, which only uses these two criteria for ranking the Member States that are granted voting rights in a rotation system.
The ECB's proposal reflects this truism.
All the Commission has done is to propose using the current Central Bank criteria to define its voting system.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place next Thursday. (The sitting was suspended at 5.05 p.m and resumed at 5.20 p.m.) The next item is the statement by the Commission on the neighbours of the enlarged Europe: a new framework for relations with the neighbours to the east and south.
This is an extremely important document which clarifies our proposals for European and Mediterranean relations after enlargement.
The enlargement process has, in fact, given the countries near to the Union great hopes, but it has also generated frustration and tension which can be summarised in a number of quite clear, quite comprehensible comments made by the countries of the East excluded from enlargement.
In short, our aim is to develop a policy for these countries which are calling for a special relationship with the Union but for which the Union cannot foresee an enlargement strategy, at least in the short term.
The reference framework we have outlined in the communication complements rather than replaces the relationship the Union has with individual countries or groups of countries.
Thus, we want to develop with each individual country, on the basis of experience and our current contractual obligations, an agreed action plan which sets out the path we intend to pursue together.
Mr President, the Commissioner obviously wanted to say something just now, and perhaps I can ask him a question at the same time.
You mentioned the financial instruments and the treaties with neighbouring countries.
We must not leave this in abeyance, and we must also ensure that the responsibility is clarified within the Commission, for what we are dealing with here, really, is an interim phase between normal traditional foreign policy and integration in the European Union.
However, the honourable Member will see from our proposals that we have put forward sensible and concrete ways in which we can encourage our neighbours, both on our land and our sea borders, to share in our market, to share in our policies, not to share in our institutions but to share in the prosperity and political stability which have been the hallmark of the European Union.
The simple answer to his question is that there is no disagreement.
The Commission believes that this is a responsibility for the whole Commission and that responsibilities will have to be shared between us.
Mr President, I have followed the Commission President's introduction very closely and have also read the speech he made on the same subject in Brussels in December.
My question - it is an open question to the Commission - is whether it is not better or would be better to say in even clearer terms: 'in this ring of friends there are friends who are ever so slightly closer to us'.
For me, what it comes down to in the end is whether, by means of what you are proposing, we can achieve the same positive effect on those countries as we have achieved with the enlargement process in a number of other countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
The debate on which countries will be destined to become part of the Union and with which countries we should just form preferential cooperation relations will have to be addressed very carefully, given that cooperation cannot concern trade measures alone but must cover relations on sensitive issues such as respect for human rights and the control of migration flows too.
I want it to be clear that this objective of building a ring of friends does not imply any commitment or any exclusion as regards enlargement: none of these countries has the right to membership and none of them is excluded.
However, clearly, this does not resolve the issue raised in the last question.
However, the ring of friends is a different project, a project which is not concerned with the enlargement of the Union but which still offers a relationship of close cooperation, which offers gradual integration, which genuinely offers the Union and the countries around it a future of economic and political security.
To turn to the second question, Mr Wiersma , this was done precisely in order to avoid the accusation that we have merely moved the iron curtain eastwards, as I said in my previous speech.
This will undoubtedly be a key issue for the future after enlargement and the accession of ten new countries.
My second question relates to the Balkans.
Perhaps the Commission could review this position once again.
Mr President, I can answer the three questions on the principle of work-sharing.
Firstly, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy will recall that I have agreed to come to the committee on 25 March to have a full discussion on the Commission communication, which will enable us to follow up in more detail a number of the points being debated this afternoon.
We must have a policy that is able to accommodate the different levels of economic development and of commitment to our value system.
As the President has said, I am sure there will be a debate in due course on the geographical limits of the European Union.
The President was making speeches about this around three and a half years ago.
However, this is not the time or the document for that debate.
On the question of how the Mediterranean countries and the Eastern European countries can be involved in our policies, we very much hope that we can involve them in everything from the internal market, trade, migration and the movement of persons to justice and home affairs, financial assistance and issues like governance, human rights and the rule of law.
We have been trying to do that through the Barcelona process by, for example, giving more encouragement to those countries that are already involved in the Agadir process, encouraging them to move on from that and to start trying to harmonise their regulations with ours, and involving themselves more in our own internal market.
There are a number of countries in Eastern Europe - the western NIS one could call them - who have been unable to join the European Union, even though, like Moldova and Ukraine, they express their European vocation.
I hope that what we are proposing to them in terms of trade, economics and political dialogue will increase the size of the common economic and political space around our borders.
However, we do not seek to resolve the question of membership for those countries of the European Union in this document.
Finally, I am pleased to have the opportunity to answer the honourable Member's question on this because it is one we have discussed in the past.
She quite sensibly asks about coherence in our financial instruments for dealing with cross-border issues.
I can assure her that she will find in our document the proposal for a neighbourhood instrument, which will deal with the sort of problems she has referred to.
My colleagues who work on enlargement and regional matters will be working with my own directorate-general and others to try to bring this new instrument into operation in the most effective and least disruptive way possible.
Those acceding Member States could then begin to feed in their experience in foreign policy relations with our new neighbours, perhaps reporting to Commissioner Verheugen or indeed to Commissioner Patten himself.
Fortunately Russia does not want to join the European Union, but Ukraine does.
Mr President, we are in some danger of begging the question.
So far there has been one referendum, in which the European Commission admits to having spent EUR 700 000, a sum which in per capita terms is equivalent to spending EUR 100 million in Commissioner Prodi's native Italy or in Commissioner Patten's native United Kingdom.
If the terms that we are offering these countries are so favourable, why do we need to deploy colossal resources on this scale in order to help them make up their minds?
Mr President, I think the House is going to have the benefit of the President after the External Affairs Commissioner has made one or two points.
Indeed, part of the intention of this communication is to prevent any notion of a fortress Europe being created with the 25 Member States.
One of the things that they look at is not simply the border between the country making the application and Europe, but the other borders for which that country is responsible.
The honourable Member also asked whether we were going to try to involve the applicant countries which have not yet joined, and whether we were involving those countries in the debate.
We do not want any country on our borders to be isolated by its own will, or by the will of its regime.
We are not just talking about commercial, economic or even geostrategic interests.
For many of us the case for enlargement is a moral one.
I would also, however, like to make it quite clear that I do not accept - or rather, I accept up to a certain point - the argument that the possibility of becoming a Member of the Union furthers the democratic process and the internal development of these countries.
It is therefore clear that this possibility must be conferred where these goals are identified and consolidated and are shared by ourselves as well as the countries involved.
That is why I am anxious for the debate on the Union's borders to be opened.
Having a group of countries with which we can cooperate on these sensitive issues too is extremely important, and it is, of course, our responsibility to ensure that this is achieved with due regard for the rights of the migrants.
The debate is closed.
The application of the Community rules on the free movement of workers in sport was decided by the European Court of Justice in the 1974 Walrave case, in which the Court held that sport was subject to Community law when it constitutes an economic activity, whether by professional or amateur athletes.
As the author is not present, Question No 51, 52 and 53 lapses.
Mr President, the honourable Member will of course be aware that his very important and interesting oral question has sadly been overtaken by events over the last 24 hours.
The Commission gave this process its full support, and it recalls the European Union's readiness to facilitate a solution in accordance with the principles on which the European Union is based.
In other words, we will now submit to Parliament a protocol supplementing the accession treaty with Cyprus and setting forth how Cyprus's accession will be organised under the present circumstances.
The Commission underlines its solidarity with all Cypriots and appreciates the courage with which the Turkish Cypriots have expressed their European convictions.
The Commission will continue to promote projects in Cyprus to the benefit of both communities, so that economic inequalities on the island are reduced and confidence is built between the two communities.
Mr President, Mr Alavanos, when I visited Ankara at the end of January I left the Turkish authorities in no doubt about the possible consequences of a failure of the Cyprus talks.
In my discussions with the Prime Minister and the leader of the AK party and also with other leading figures in Turkish politics, I made it clear that the Commission is expected to issue an opinion and a recommendation at the end of 2004 stating whether or not Turkey meets the political criteria for accession and, if so, recommending when accession negotiations with Turkey should start.
I have to say very clearly that the Cyprus problem is part and parcel of these political criteria for accession.
I find it very difficult to imagine how, in such a situation, the Commission could issue a positive opinion on starting accession negotiations with Turkey.
It is very important for the United Nations plan to remain on the table.
I am firmly convinced that there will never be a better offer or a better solution for the Turkish Cypriots than this one.
Not that things would have been much better had the two sides accepted the Annan plan which, unlike the UN resolutions, attempted to impose a particular form of federation which was not so very different from the recognition of two states in Cyprus, in other words partition.
Under these circumstances I wonder, Commissioner, how the Commission is going to deal with a situation in which a candidate country, in this case Turkey, has forces occupying and has colonised part of a country which is already a Member State of the European Union, in violation of numerous UN resolutions.
The protocol that I have already mentioned several times makes it absolutely clear that Community law will not be applied in those parts of Cyprus over which the Government of the Republic of Cyprus cannot exert effective control.
From a purely legal point of view, the whole of Cyprus will become a Member of the European Union.
I think the most important thing that we can do is to continue to cooperate intensively with Turkey, to continue to use all of the means at our disposal to encourage Turkey to drive forward political, economic and social reforms and to meet the political accession criteria.
The question has lapsed and the Rules of Procedure do not leave any other option since that would amount to setting a precedent.
Therefore, Mr President, without wanting to accuse you of having any responsibility for the way the debate proceeded - although it would be desirable not to change the agenda - I would request that you ask the services of the House to ensure that the screen and the monitor work correctly so that this kind of situation does not happen again.
That was the practice in this House for almost 20 years and it was something that we could rely on.
Mr President, I would like to thank you for kindly suggesting that the Commission should reply to my question in writing, but I would prefer my question to lapse in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, Mr Crowley, the point you raise in your oral question corresponds exactly to the subject of a formal complaint that has been submitted to us.
The formal complaint came from the Media Observatory Czech Republic, and has been endorsed by the company Media Print &amp; Kappa Pressegrosso.
Nevertheless, the Commission services have contacted the Czech competition supervision authorities.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his brief response.
However, Commissioner, you did not answer the basic aspects of the question.
The reason I gave so much information - like you I had access to this information - was that it could be an attempt by a private company or by groups of private companies to distort the market before the full impact of European Union law becomes legal and to interfere so that no action can be taken afterwards.
Mr Crowley, the different roles that we play here explain our different accounts of the situation.
I must therefore say that I simply do not know today whether we do in fact have a breach of competition law on our hands.
The question of whether competition law has been violated is being investigated at this very moment by the Czech authorities, and the Commission services are in contact with the Czech authorities because it is our job to ensure that in the pre-accession phase the relevant instruments are correctly applied and the relevant procedures adhered to.
I can even go a step further and say that given that this is about media pluralism and given that media pluralism plays a significant role in promoting democracy in a country, the Commission is also taking this case particularly seriously.
I also found the reports to which you refer deeply disturbing.
I read the report on the alleged forced sterilisation of women from the Roma minority in the Slovak Republic with great concern and consternation.
A practice of this kind would in fact constitute a serious violation of human rights if it were either ordered or at least tolerated by the state or any other public institution, or if the state were to refuse to investigate the accusations and call those responsible to account.
You will see, Commissioner, that absolutely nothing of what the people of the Centre for Reproductive Rights, which carried out this investigation, are saying is either nonsense or invented.
I simply said that the Slovak Government stressed that there was no state-sponsored practice of this kind, that the state did not tolerate these practices and that the accusations that you and others are making were the subject of a meticulous investigation by the competent authorities.
If the Slovak Government were to say that there was no truth in these accusations then it would not need to order an investigation.
I must draw your attention to the fact that the Commission does not have any executive power in the countries that will be joining us.
It is therefore completely out of the question for us to undertake a criminal or criminological investigation in a future Member State, just as we would be unable to do so in a current Member State.
I really must insist on stating here that the Slovak Government responded immediately and has complied with all of our requests without hesitation.
What I saw was that, despite the commitments of the government, the discrimination continues, partly because it seems to be ingrained in the society and almost institutionalised.
First and foremost I must remind you that discrimination against Roma is not only a sad fact of life in the future Member States, but that unfortunately we also find this in a whole series of current Member States.
Our efforts have focused on ensuring that these countries develop a strategy to reduce the discrimination against the Roma.
I have, however, always said - including here in this House - that we cannot expect social discrimination against the Roma to have been completely eliminated at the time of accession of the new Members.
Neither can we say that there is absolutely no discrimination in the present Member States.
It has deployed a great deal of money, made significant human resources available and provided considerable advice to help the future Member States to develop and also apply a strategy to combat discrimination against the Roma.
I do not think that you will find anyone for miles around who is better acquainted with the reality of the situation faced by the Roma in these countries than I am.
He really is very convincing on this issue.
Mrs Flemming, Parliament is of course free to make its own decisions and I would consider it a worthwhile initiative if it were to go along with the suggestion that you have just made.
If it did then the Commission would be very grateful to have this opportunity to receive information of this kind first hand.
This is clearly a matter for the Member States, so, in this case, it is a matter for the Belgian authorities.
On the contrary, funding was increased from around EUR 2.3 million to EUR 3.5 million, precisely so that beef, which was available again in 2002, could be distributed without this entailing a reduction in the quantities of the other food that had been made available.
All I know is that these food distribution organisations are manned by people who are highly committed, very socially aware, and also well disposed towards Europe.
In response you said that just as much food is being distributed as before and then we have the disconcerting assessment that in fact 750 tonnes less are being distributed.
Mr Staes, in my statement I was talking about amounts of money and not about tonnes.
I also said, however, that you need to bear three different things in mind here.
How much each organisation gets is therefore decided by the Belgian authorities, and it may well be the case that the organisation that you mentioned received less, but this would mean that another organisation would have received more.
The second point is that there is also a link between the Community and Belgium because, as you know, we have provided a financial grant, but we do not give this grant to the individual organisation, we give it to the Member State.
Question No 58 by Dirk Sterckx, which has been taken over by Mr.
We accept this and are working on amending Annex XVII because in this way we can resolve the problem.
We discussed this issue with representatives of the Member States on Monday and also today.
Mr Vermeer, if you wish I can be even more specific.
Commissioner, Scottish fishermen and others north of 55o north are being restricted to 15 days, which they find difficult to accept, all the more when they see the industrial fishermen scooping up a million tonnes of sand eels and Norway pout, which are both the feedstock for their whitefish, and in many cases, immature haddock and other whitefish.
Turning now specifically to industrial fishing, I can only say that we have been working on this issue for years.
There is one problem with industrial fishing and that is the risk of cod being caught as a by-catch.
The experts are telling us, however, that these by-catches have fallen significantly thanks to new fishing technologies and that in the future it will be possible to virtually eliminate them.
Question No 59 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0090/03): Subject: Young farmers and recognition of historical farming rights in the new proposal for reform of the CAP In connection with the new proposal to reform the CAP and with reference to the forms of aid totally decoupled from production to be paid to farmers on the basis of farming rights, how are young farmers to be incorporated in the proposal?
Furthermore, under Article 49 of our proposal, these claims can be passed on, either through specific bequests or by anticipating the line of succession.
This provision takes account of customary practice in Europe when a holding is taken over by young farmers.
In addition the proposal also specifically accommodates new farmers.
Reference amounts can be allocated from this reserve for the single payment to farmers who started their farming activity only after 31 December 2000.
Finally, it goes without saying that reference amounts need to be allocated to new farmers in accordance with objective criteria and according to the principle of equal treatment, so as to avoid distortions of the market or competition.
Finally, if a farmer - and that obviously includes a young farmer - can prove that his production has been reduced in the reference period because of force majeure or other unusual circumstances, then he can claim that his case is one of hardship.
The possible cases when hardship pertains are described in more detail in Paragraph 4 of the relevant article.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for that very positive and illuminating reply, at a time when there is great uncertainty in the countryside.
However, given the importance of the issue, I believe more information should be provided.
So my supplementary question is: does the Commission plan to provide the farmers with direct information and guidance on the advantages and improvements represented by the reform you are proposing?
Therefore, Commissioner, if we want the farmers to understand your proposals, bearing in mind that the Spanish Minister for Agriculture's strategy is head-on opposition, I believe you should consider this question and that the Commission must propose measures to provide direct information, because what we have in Spain at the moment are ridiculous parodies.
We have prepared a public relations strategy specifically so as to ensure that the proposals are discussed in the public domain.
Whether a government representative likes these proposals or not is of secondary importance.
This is intended to guarantee that farmers that receive direct support comply with binding EU standards on the environment, food safety, animal health, animal protection and also safety in the workplace and that they keep their land in good agricultural condition in accordance with good agricultural practice.
This Commission proposal cannot therefore directly create any additional costs.
Furthermore, the measures that are available to Member States under rural development have been extended to include instruments to improve quality and also achieve better animal protection.
In the context of these newly proposed measures to achieve compliance with standards, farmers can receive aid for a new standard for five years, if applying it involves additional costs and obligations for the farmer.
Despite our efforts to secure the future of European farmers and promote important European trade interests, one of the most important objectives of the European proposals made in January for the WTO negotiations is that in the current negotiating round non-trade-related matters - such as food safety or the protection of designations of origin, or animal and environmental protection - be treated on an equal footing.
Other things have been left out, however, which have already been debated in the special committees on agriculture.
I would therefore ask you what supplementary measures are subject to the supervision of the Commission, but do not tell me that control falls to the Member States.
We need it as a result of the decision - which by the way was also made here in Parliament - to give the world's poorest countries the right to export all of the goods that they produce, without any restrictions, to the European Union.
The objective of the reform has to be on the one hand to address the consequences of this external trade policy and on the other to ensure that at the same time the typical landscapes are preserved in traditional rice-growing areas, such as in southern Spain, where there is of course even a national park where rice is the main crop.
Mr President, Mr Bautista Ojeda, firstly, under the Everything but Arms initiative the world's poorest countries have the right to export their own production, that is their entire production, to the EU if they so wish.
We can do so by using those instruments that we also use in all other areas to check the origin of a product.
In some cases it is certainly possible to tell by analysing the imported rice whether it really is from the country of origin indicated or not, and this does happen in practice.
As the time allotted to Question Time has elapsed, Questions Nos 61 to 95 will be replied to in writing The following questions are addressed to the Commission. (The sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m.
Secondly, I would like to point out three strict limits to demand policies, which are included in the policy in the short term: to maintain macroeconomic stability, to maintain European competitiveness in an increasingly globalised world and to reduce public debt, in order to free up resources which must be destined towards investment and to create resources for future social needs.
In the field of monetary policy, which is the next section, the report stresses that the European Central Bank must closely follow the evolution of prices, in view of the underlying inflation in the services sector.
In the field of budgetary policy, the message seems to me to be equally clear.
Secondly, it welcomes the Commission's efforts to interpret this pact, to assess the budgetary situation of each Member State, taking account of volume of debt and quality of expenditure, particularly when it is investment expenditure, which is coherent with the Lisbon, Stockholm and Gothenburg strategies.
Thirdly, it regrets the lack of application, the lack of diligence of those prodigal governments which, while running the risk of excessive deficit, do not appear to want to make any effort to reduce structural deficits.
With regard to structural reform policy, we stress that the lack of investment is key, and is the most definitive explanation of our lagging behind the United States, particularly investment in new technologies.
We therefore call for the establishment in the economic guidelines of quantified objectives in the field of public and private investment and for the promotion of investment by the private sector in these technologies, essentially by means of the tax deductions, linked to obtaining profits rather than subsidies, since we have no very clear idea of which activities those subsidies are used for.
We call for a new industrial policy, because people cannot live on services alone, as well as an effort in the field of renewable energies, on which I do not need to insist given the international climate.
In the field of small and medium-sized businesses, the Commission is urged to continue with the objectives of the Feira Charter, to facilitate their creation within 24 hours by means of new technologies, to advocate a postponement of taxes during the early years of operation, to simplify their operation, particularly in an administrative sense, and to exercise strict vigilance in the field of funding in the Basilea II negotiations, to stress the role of the European Investment Fund and to establish a network of guarantees which allows them access to the markets.
We welcome the efforts in the field of taxation and we would ask for further effort in order to achieve VAT at source and a consolidated basis in taxes on companies and we ask for stricter representation of the euro in international fora and a denomination of energies in this currency.
Thanks once again to all the groups and the President for their patience.
If the answer to this question is yes, as I believe it is, the problem then arises of how to coordinate and reconcile the different areas of Union intervention as regards economic policy, social and employment policy, sustainable development, financial stability and growth and achieve synergic interaction between them.
Indeed, in this new context, the application of the Stability Pact cannot just be concentrated in those periods in which there are clear risks of a shift away from the objectives and constraints of the Pact as regards budget deficit or public debt, constraints that we have no intention of questioning, especially during this difficult, uncertain period.
The Commission must acknowledge the difference between an economic policy which favours regular expenditures over public and private investment in periods of growth and a policy seeking to meet the Lisbon objectives in clear stages between now and 2010 in the areas of research and development, training and integrated European infrastructures.
I hope that similar considerations and opportunities will all be taken into account together at the forthcoming Spring Council, and I would quietly point out, by way of conclusion, that there has to be institutional coordination of economic and social policies in the euro zone, coordination capable of taking majority decisions and showing, not least in the work of the Convention, that the enlargement of the Union which we are determined to make every effort to achieve will not hinder the progress or dampen the vitality of the European Union in the search for new, more advanced forms of integration.
Now, further reforms are needed, however, as well as compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact by the Member States.
Certainly, there have been complaints about price rises, but the general price level has not increased.
Three of the EU Member States are still outside the third phase of EMU: Great Britain, Denmark and Sweden, there being no special exemption rules in the case of Sweden.
When my work on the report began - and I want to take the opportunity of expressing my thanks for all the support I have received - there was still a lot of uncertainty about the Swedish Government's views.
In a referendum on 14 September 2003, the Swedish people are to say yes or no to the euro.
Both the Commission and the ECB have recognised that Sweden has fulfilled three of the five convergence criteria: those relating to price stability, public sector finances and long-term interest rates.
ERM membership must be viewed as a requirement, but the period of membership may be relatively short.
The issue of membership of ERM2 is also significant and, of course, also very sensitive where the candidate countries are concerned.
I also noted that, in the course of a speech in Hungary the other week, the Commissioner was thinking along similar lines.
The issue has also been taken up in an exchange of letters between the President of the ECB and the Swedish Finance Minister.
The ECB expressed particular concern about the lack of clear rules concerning transfers of reserves from the Swedish Central Bank to the national treasury.
In his reply, however, the Finance Minister stressed that the necessary amendments would be submitted when the introduction of the euro was imminent, together with necessary changes to the constitution, even if time may be short, given Sweden's requirement for an interim election in the case of constitutional changes.
At the same time, I would also venture to say that the euro in fact needs Sweden.
The Swedish economy is in good shape and can meet the necessary requirements.
As I see it, it is a necessary and obvious step for Sweden to become fully a part of European integration in its entirety and to have the euro as its currency and coinage.
It is my hope and my conviction that, on 15 September, I shall be able, with my head held high, to come back to you, Mr President, and to you, Commissioner, with the message: 'It was a ?yes?' vote.
I have listened to the criticism and am able to accept that Amendments Nos 12 and 14 should be removed because their subjects are covered elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen and most particularly, Commissioner Solbes Mira, the presentation of the Commission document on Public Finances to which my report is dedicated shared at the time the firmly-held conviction that the economic forecasts for the European area should then be systematically revised downwards.
The economic context of budgetary surveillance has indeed proven to be much less favourable than initially predicted and is demonstrated, specifically, by the doubling of the Eurozone's deficit between the years 2000 and 2001, by the 'fact' that this imbalance grew and became more serious in 2002 and by the explanation and real scrutiny of the serious budgetary difficulties that have occurred in four of the Member States.
In this speech he expressed his concern at the downturn in the economic cycle, but also emphatically criticised an inflexible and dogmatic enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact regardless of changing circumstances and consequently called for adjustments and the introduction of more sophisticated criteria for implementing the Pact.
Since then, many politicians, experts, research bodies, academics and leaders of public and published opinion have contributed their thoughts on the matter.
The Commission itself has stuck to the prudent but ambitious interpretation of its President, redrafting a less rigid and more active framework of budgetary supervision that now adheres to the principle that the Pact's implementation must make it an ever more valuable instrument in promoting stability, growth and employment.
The report endorses this viewpoint to the extent that it considers this to correspond to an intermediate stage between the rigid application of the Pact and the crucial development towards an interpretative model, which it considers to be inevitable in future, taking account of more sophisticated criteria such as inflation, employment, public debts and changes in these debts, financial burdens arising from the ageing of the population and investment requirements.
Finally, the quality of public expenditure must serve to bring the SGP into line with the objectives laid down in the Lisbon strategy and with the principle of sustainable development as agreed in Gothenburg.
The political prevalence of budgetary constraints and a rigid interpretation of the financial balance under multilateral surveillance have led in recent years to a steady decline in the ratio of public investment to GDP, although it must be acknowledged that private investment has followed the same trend.
All of this coincides with the increased difficulties that the European economy has been displaying.
The solutions proposed initially or which are now being adopted are not unheard of in the context of some developed economies in the OECD where the 'golden rule' is a crucial element, not only for consolidating public finances, but also for launching and sustaining a process of economic and social development.
The flexibility and rationality that are being advocated are not incompatible with the need to ensure compliance with the real spirit of the Stability and Growth Pact, and nor does a public debate on the matter diminish the scope of its objectives.
The financial consolidation of the States that accept a common monetary policy and a single currency and which reject any self-sufficiency that hinders open relations with countries outside their own zone is crucial and must be pursued.
This is also crucial in the political framework of the Union, but if this type of commitment is to be effective, priority consideration must be given to the interests of the zone as a whole - a very substantial area - with the use of discretionary instruments being acceptable in exceptional circumstances to aid the recovery of the least developed regions or countries.
This, unfortunately, is the situation seen in many European economies at the end of 2002.
Determining the current problems of the European economy when drawing up the balance-sheet of the degree to which the objectives outlined at the Lisbon Extraordinary summit have been attained is, therefore, absolutely crucial.
I would like to stress that the document for this year is of a more strategic nature than usual, insofar as it is a document which intends to define the broad European strategy for the next three years.
Mr García-Margallo has insisted on the need for a healthy macroeconomic policy and clearly supports the Stability and Growth Pact.
We know that increases in productivity - you have referred to this yourself - and growth in employment are also closely related to the evolution of salaries, and that it is essential that salaries are compatible with reasonable evolution of employment and with increases in productivity.
We believe it is also essential to implement more appropriate taxation in order to achieve these objectives and of course to carry out more public and private investment.
In recent weeks there has been an element which I would like to stress, which is the approval of the Community patent, which will undoubtedly be an innovative element and which will allow for greater European innovation and of course to define public expenditure according to criteria which will improve productivity or production.
Mr Trentin refers to this point when he points out the need to approach the Stability and Growth Pact jointly in Lisbon.
I believe that the key lies in greater investment in research and development.
We have set certain specific objectives on this point, since public investment in this sector functions satisfactorily but nevertheless there are more deficiencies with regard to the functioning of the private economy.
The Stability and Growth Pact, however, as modified in the Communication in November, introduces an additional element in relation to this policy so that it may further promote development in Europe.
It is true that the pact provides us with the initial means for achieving budgetary balance or a situation of surplus in the medium term.
We believe that all actions which ultimately allow us to increase our growth potential must be treated in the same way.
The Commission therefore proposed in its Communication that there could be temporary deviations in countries which fulfil certain conditions; essentially those which have low levels of ratio in relation to public debt; which furthermore have already achieved a situation of budgetary balance and which, of course, establish this type of deviation in order to increase growth.
And here we are talking about investments in infrastructures, investments in knowledge, but also measures of a fiscal nature, for example tax reductions, which may eventually allow us to improve growth.
Those are the essential elements which the Commission raised in its Communication, which have not been taken up in an entirely exact form in the final conclusions of the Council, but which nevertheless have allowed, or are allowing, sufficient progress to be made in order to achieve a result which we believe must allow us to improve in terms of growth.
With regard to the coordination of our budgetary policies, I would say that the system has improved, but that, nevertheless, we cannot be completely satisfied, since we have too many deviations.
I believe it is essential to make progress on coordination and in this regard the broad guidelines for economic policy are intended to make improvements, not only by means of the tri-annual approach, but also by paying more attention to application reports than to general approaches.
And I believe we must improve our multinational coordination systems, since - as we have highlighted in our proposals to the Convention - there are certain deficiencies in the current system which prevent 'peer pressure' from functioning in the manner which was drawn up in the Treaty.
That report is a key to understanding what is done subsequently, in November, when we present our proposal for a communication to the Council.
We also believe it essential in our Communication that the Member States confirm their commitment to the pact.
Secondly, in order to achieve budgetary balance in the medium term, those countries which have not yet achieved it will have to make budgetary efforts to the tune of half a point per year, as a minimum, or more in the event that there is a difference.
We are pleased to note that, when we talk about the figures relating to development in Sweden, the remaining convergence criteria are being complied with even more comfortably than in the past.
However we have yet to deal with those two elements which I hope can be resolved in the future.
You know what our position is in relation to them.
In the legal field, the Central Bank's independence system must be adapted.
I also believe it would be beneficial for the European Union and for the eurozone in particular, since it would represent a significant advance in our process of integration.
In his draft report there was not a single word about it, and it was only the amendments tabled by the various different groups that brought the report closer to the issue at hand.
I am also grateful to the Commissioner for reminding us once more of the Lisbon objectives, which are not at odds with the Stability and Growth Pact and budgetary consolidation, but in fact encapsulate all of the framework conditions: a flexible labour market and the need to increase investment, reduce taxes, and invest in research and training.
This cannot however absolve the Member States from applying strict standards in their budgetary policy, as prescribed by the Commission.
In the Trentin report we have at least demanded that in future the Commission be able to send out the blue letters on its own, without this being dependent on a vote in the Ecofin Council in which the offenders are indirectly involved.
We want to strengthen the Commission's independence.
Eight out of twelve Member States in the euro zone have already managed to balance their budgets.
If Germany with its considerable economic power does not comply with the Stability Pact then it puts the stability of the euro at risk.
That is why Parliament's reports - and I mean all of those on the table this evening - show a glimmer of hope but at the same time make demands that mercilessly expose the weaknesses in the European economy.
We cannot deny either that even the European Central Bank is now talking about risks of a downward trend in the European Union.
Besides, we do not yet know what economic benefits these structural reforms will bring to the European Union and we have no idea what impact they will have on employment policy.
We have to work on the basis of real growth and not only on the basis of potential for growth.
Neither are we respecting the agreement to invest more in research and development, and that too applies to both the private and public sectors.
At the moment we perhaps do not really need an economic government, but coordination up and across our governments, coordination that is worthy of the name, is in the interests of growth and employment.
When assessing these three years, despite the difficulties of the American economy, we find that, in terms of growth, productivity levels and employment levels, we are further behind than three years ago.
It is therefore clear that there is a very worrying difference between what is preached in the Councils and what is practiced in the Member States, and this prejudices the Union's overall result.
In the current situation, which is not exactly one of the best economic situations the European Union has been in in recent years, there are three key aspects which particular attention must also be paid to.
Let us hope that this historic agreement on the European patent, as Commissioner Solbes has mentioned, will provide promotion in this area, but that it will also pay special attention to the creation and development of small and medium-sized businesses based on the application of new technologies, because, as was demonstrated in the 1990s, they are significant sources of work.
He has contributed to a good debate and I thank him for this.
Clearly, the problem of pensions will not be resolved unless there is a large increase in employment rates in Europe.
The European Union should be able to finance effective networks of services of general interest and develop policies on productive enterprises.
Far from fearing inflation, the European Central Bank should amend its target and reduce its real rates below zero.
It will increase public deficits pointlessly in both the United States and Europe, when we want to reduce them.
As one of our experts said, the United States is skating on very thin ice.
Europe cannot therefore just tag along with the United States.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is faced with a real operational problem.
Mr President, Commissioner, the reports being discussed today are major, substantial documents - before I start I must pay tribute to the rapporteurs for that - and they represent a major contribution to the debate on the policy guidelines for public finances in Europe.
The radical Members will support them in their present form.
I do not want to go into the details of the individual resports, but I would like to take this opportunity to make some more general comments.
I do not feel that the fact that Europe decided at a certain juncture to set itself, and I quote once again: 'a new strategic goal for the next decade: to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world capable of sustainable economic growth' and all the other goals we are familiar with is either a great leap forward or the basis for a new economic policy for the Member States, unless we think that, in the past, the States did not want to make their countries competitive countries and did not want to aim at full employment.
In addition to constantly stressing these objectives and performing analyses - the European Parliament is a political body, not a research centre - I feel we should discuss the reason why these high-sounding goals are not being met and which are the political costs which we in Europe do not have the courage to face in order to achieve them, to convert them into practical reforms, the reforms discussed in the reports before us today.
The economic crisis in Germany is an indication of the crisis of an old economic model, the model of an old Europe which has nothing left to invest.
I do not believe that private investment in Europe is low because of interest rates or, therefore, that our only objective should be to pressurize the European Central Bank to give us a more flexible interest rate policy, thereby facilitating private investment.
Private investment will not increase because of lower interest rates: it will increase if and when we have a more flexible economy, with flexibility introduced in large doses.
I will end with a comment on the subject of pensions: the need for rigorous national budgets arises, first and foremost, from the need for national budgets to have the capacity to deal with the problems related to the aging of the population and the costs derived from the structural reform of the pensions systems.
On 1 January 2002, the euro was introduced as the currency, in notes and coinage, of 12 European Union countries.
The transition was very successful, and people accepted the new currency in a positive way.
The Commission and the ECB consider that Sweden fulfils the three criteria relating to price stability, public sector finances and long-term interest rates.
It should however be borne in mind that, when Sweden formally requests a reappraisal, this will be carried out in the course of a second reference period and against a background of expectations that may tend to increase exchange rate stability.
When it comes to legal convergence, it is essential for Sweden as soon as possible to introduce the change in Swedish legislation that is required if the euro is to be introduced.
With all due respect for the convergence criteria, the decision concerning Swedish participation in the third phase of EMU is political.
In the referendum of 14 September 2003, the Swedish people will decide for a long time to come which currency is to be used in Sweden.
On the other hand, Sweden is obliged, under the Treaty of Maastricht, to become fully involved in EMU cooperation once the convergence criteria have been fulfilled.
Unlike Denmark and Great Britain, Sweden has no special exemption clause, but we shall hopefully obtain a 'yes' vote from the Swedish people on 14 September.
This will make it possible to obtain that broad support for the report desired by both the rapporteur and myself.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, three of the reports before us this evening provide an opportunity for us to assess the functioning of economic and monetary union prior to the Spring European Council.
Turning to the situation of public finances in France, one cannot help remarking that economic policy is not considered as an issue of common interest.
The adoption of the Lisbon strategy could subsequently have been the catalyst that would have provided the economic and monetary union with an economic policy.
Item 6 of this report states that the introduction of the euro is part of the Treaty obligations for all the Member States, including Sweden in other words.
Item 5 states, however, that referendums are to be held and that the outcomes of these must be respected, even if they entail rejecting the introduction of the euro.
It may also be worth Parliament's knowing that, among those who say 'no', are quite a few ministers in the Swedish Government, including the minister for trade and industry, Leif Pagrotsky, at least two former presidents of the Swedish Central Bank and a long list of highly regarded economists, who all believe that Sweden should vote 'no'.
The truth is that EMU has not been the success it was expected to be.
For Sweden, the German economy is particularly important, but it is a difficult task right now to convince the Swedish people to make their future dependent upon the German economy.
This issue concerns not only Sweden, but also the UK and Denmark.
We shall soon also have a range of new Member States that are also outside the framework of cooperation concerning the euro.
In those countries, too, there may perhaps be referendums on the euro and, as a result, the euro may be rejected there.
In its current form, this report fails to challenge the principles of the neo-liberal credo, which unfortunately are at the heart of many Community policies.
The report does not query the validity of the stability and growth programmes to any significant extent.
The report appears to reject any initiative to make the stability and growth criteria more flexible, and particularly the famous 3% criterion.
The policies pursued by Member States and the European Union were therefore based on inaccurate data.
The fact that the Basque newspaper Egunkaria has been banned for six months makes one wonder whether the Basque country is still within a country where the Rule of Law prevails.
In view of the marked differences in performance between the eurozone and the countries outside the euro, the question certainly needs to be asked.
I am aware that the response from the Commission, the European Central Bank and even the last Ecofin Council was overwhelmingly negative, although a number of minor modifications were put forward.
We must at least try to do so in an intelligent way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner very much for reminding us all once again of the corner stones - not only because these are uncertain times, but also because this has been a very confusing debate - and for not setting them against each other either, but reminding us that they are principles of European economic policy.
We talk about the rules, but at the same time we say - at least some of us do - that the rules should not be respected in such and such a case by such and such a country.
At the same time, we regret the crisis of confidence in Europe about many economic policy measures and the principles and objectives of the European Union.
You only create confidence with accountability and you only create accountability if you keep to and act on the things you resolve to do, both at European level and in the Member States.
That is why I say very clearly on behalf of my group that we say 'yes' to the internal market.
But that also means that we must, at last, eliminate tax provisions that distort competition.
For some types of tax, such as value-added tax, energy tax, corporation tax and the taxation of pension funds, a convergence programme is necessary.
We say 'yes' to the Lisbon strategy, but if we say 'yes' to the Lisbon strategy then we also have to say 'yes' to a model of the market economy that takes account of environmental and social concerns and does not constantly play the market off against social security.
This also means that we finally need to ensure that with each piece of legislation we identify its economic impact and its impact on employment and the environment before we adopt it, rather than waiting until afterwards to be allowed to complain about the consequences.
And we say 'yes' to the Stability Pact because it provides an ordered framework, and that is why we also say 'no' to the golden rules, because they undermine the Stability Pact and we would thereby be stabbing the Commission, the guardian of the Treaties, in the back and betraying the Stability and Growth objectives.
Mr President, my home country, Sweden, will be holding a referendum on the euro this autumn.
In spite of the fact that we are still not part of the eurozone, we are nonetheless actively attempting to fulfil the convergence criteria and to respect the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact.
I believe that it will be possible quickly to fulfil the requirements regarding these issues if the outcome of the referendum is a 'yes' vote.
What is more, we have higher growth than many other countries.
It would therefore be dangerous to begin to ignore these rules, together with budgetary discipline, as soon as some people have problems.
That would undermine confidence in the euro and EMU.
Notwithstanding the approach pursued by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in certain amendments, there are reasons for developing the rules of the pact in the long term.
Clearly, we must stick to the inflation target, but, for example, the two per cent requirement could possibly be the average for an economic cycle, so that inflation could be one per cent in one year and three per cent in another.
The Commission has put forward an interesting proposal whereby countries with low national debts should be given increased opportunities to provide loans for long-term investments.
Allow me finally to say that, for both political and economic reasons, I hope that Sweden will soon be involved in cooperation concerning the euro.
If we can strengthen and unify Europe in a situation in which the dollar's and the United States's dominance is so powerful and, at the same time, reduce the risk of new currency and interest crises, then I obviously think that the Swedes should vote in favour of the euro.
Mr President, what has surprised me most in this debate is that nothing shakes the faith of some Members in the rigidity of the criteria for nominal convergence.
Neither the major economic downturn nor the reduction in private investment, nor the steady rise in unemployment and poverty shake their faith in the dogmas of the Stability Pact, whose budgetary and monetary rigidity has not only contributed to worsening the current economic crisis but has also limited the potential for growth in the European Union, with all the consequences this has for the increasingly high levels of inequality, poverty and social exclusion.
This situation is particularly serious, however, for the cohesion countries, such as Portugal, whose specific problems require a dynamic public sector and major public investment in order to attain a high level of real convergence, which is being hampered by the blind application of the Stability Pact's irrational criteria.
As we all know, globalisation should make monetary and budgetary policies more flexible towards the specific needs of each country and not lead to the rigid approach currently being applied, which ends up imposing flexibility on salaries and the labour market, giving pride of place to monetary policies and attaching far less importance to social policies.
I regret the fact that the Committee on Economic Affairs did not consider the proposal I tabled, urging the Commission and the Council immediately to suspend the Stability Pact and calling for an in-depth revision of the EU's economic and monetary policy guidelines, particularly in order to take account of issues such as the sustainable economic development of employment and the implementation of all social rights through universal and high-quality public services.
Mr President, my contribution relates exclusively to Mr Olle Schmidt's report.
To that extent, the report is a biased contribution to the EMU debate in Sweden.
The present situation clearly highlights how important the Lisbon strategy for growth and competition is.
The Union was to have become the world's most competitive region by 2010 and an engine for growth, as our Member States' leaders put it so beautifully at Lisbon.
The three biggest economies in the euro area, however, have not done enough up till now.
Moreover, when we then try to eliminate these structural problems, for example with the directive on port services, a whole crowd of brawlers and egotistic anarchists gather in front of the European Parliament.
If Member States are to be allowed to deviate from the objective of balancing public finances under the Stability and Growth Pact, this will give out quite the wrong signal.
In practice this would lead to rules that are open to interpretation, and would weaken our credibility and our ultimate objectives in coordinating economic policy even further.
Having said that, I am and have always been in favour of an intelligent and flexible interpretation.
I am sure the Commission recognises this.
The economic cycle calls for more than an annual disapproval.
Monitoring over such a short period of time is incompatible with real-time analysis.
The Lisbon Summit gave voice to the possibility of a single market which was matched by investment in training and release of capital through the use of the financial services action plan, complemented by the risk capital action plan.
Mr President, it should be noted that, though the institutions of the European Union happily preach to the smaller countries of Europe if they do not meet the convergence criteria, they take a much more moderate tone in addressing two of the European powerhouses, namely France and Germany!
Maastricht criteria or not, these two Member States have taken it on themselves to increase their deficits in order to support capitalist ventures in their countries.
Although it is in fact the Member States, rather than the European institutions, who decide on their budget, we shall vote against this report as it serves as a cover and a justification for austerity measures and assaults on public services.
That also ties in with the basic idea of subsidiarity in Europe.
To put it in plain language, there should simply be no further increase in cooperation concerning economic policy, meaning that macro-economic policy ought quite simply not to fall within the competence of the EU.
Socio-political objectives too, such as bringing about full employment, promoting social cohesion or establishing a balanced relationship between competition and public service are contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and competition.
What is more, we also need competition in the tax field, that is to say between European tax systems.
In other words, we need, in the future too, an economic policy for which the Member States themselves continue to be responsible.
We must not forget that, for example, it is not the same to compare growth in productivity in the United States and the European Union with growth in productivity per hour in the United States and the European Union.
We have seen that, in terms of employment growth, the Union has grown more rapidly than in the past and we have come closer to the activity rate of the United States.
Nevertheless, our productivity has decreased in comparison with the United States.
Within this context, is the Stability and Growth Pact an obstacle to recovery in Europe?
I believe that the Stability and Growth Pact is a guarantee which will allow us, when we are able to improve our growth capacity and there is the possibility of growth, to make use of it in the best possible way.
The Stability and Growth Pact, by means of automatic stabilisers, has provided the Union with clear fiscal impetus.
Asymmetric shocks must be resolved through defining monetary policy and only in very exceptional circumstances does discretional fiscal policy make sense in the event of an asymmetric shock.
However, we have introduced the room for manoeuvre into the pact which I referred to earlier, but we have introduced it in connection with that Lisbon growth potential.
We must define a reference which is untouchable for everybody and I believe that that is the reference we have to work on.
Let us imagine simply what the budgetary situation would be in those countries which began with relatively low budgetary deficit definitions if we had allowed the growth in public deficit to function, as has happened in the United States for example.
In summary, I believe the instruments we have will allow us to confront the current situation with a certain degree of coordination.
You have raised some of the elements of concern to us all.
I completely agree with this principle and I believe it is one of the essential faults we currently have in our coordination system.
With regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, however, we have also constantly insisted on the need to achieve greater ownership on the part of the various Member States.
It is essential that the Member States accept and reiterate their commitment to complying with the Stability Pact and that that commitment is not simply formal, but that it is made reality.
Only if we are able to make progress on all these elements will we have a departure point which will allow us to grow rapidly when the economic context changes.
I believe that our fundamental balances are in a relatively comfortable position at the moment.
We are aware that our growth rates are relatively low.
We are aware that we are being very much affected by external factors and that we have not been capable of being more independent from them, but we believe this is an excellent departure point for confronting the problems which may arise in the future and for taking advantage of opportunities for growth in the best possible way at the point when they arise.
The debate is closed.
The Spanish Presidency made the common position possible, and the Danish Presidency worked hard at seeking dialogue with us.
The second point I should like to make is that this directive has also clearly shown the problems we have where legislative procedure is concerned.
In October 2000, we received the Commission proposal; and Parliament concluded the first reading in July 2001; but it was not until 5 November 2002 that the common position was made known to us.
Today we have the second reading debate, and tomorrow the vote.
As this needs to be recalled to mind, I would take this opportunity to state very clearly that we wanted to show our ability to conclude such an important directive at first reading.
Parliament's first reading produced 458 votes in favour.
My third point, which I make partly in response to a number of today's press reports, is that this directive is neither a pensions directive nor a directive concerned with social insurance products.
In view of the fact that the financial services and internal market directives, together with the relevant institutions, play a key role in the funding of the European economy and the operation of capital markets, we have tried, in this highly charged situation, to follow the path laid down in Lisbon and to bring about not only competition but also a corresponding degree of social security.
We also had the task of structuring occupational pension schemes as the second pillar of retirement provision and of dealing with the social aspects of this.
This directive is a success for the European Parliament.
We amended the Commission proposal at first reading.
It is a first step.
The directive will be of benefit to the internal market due to the provision of venture capital, and it will be of benefit to the institutions because European regulations will exist, so making cross-border activities easier.
The biometric risks have been clearly formulated, and it has been made possible to cover these.
The directive is an important step in the right direction, however.
I believe we have maintained the balance within the framework of our competences and the existing options.
Mr President, the Commission would like to thank the European Parliament and especially the rapporteur.
The rapporteur has been so kind as to thank my cabinet and my services.
This directive is of particular strategic importance, not just for our capital markets, but also for our labour markets and perhaps, more importantly, for the sustainability of our public finances and our pension systems as a whole.
The current situation in Europe is characterised by three aspects: first, a growing general awareness of what I would describe as the 'demographic timebomb'; second, a clear determination by all Member States to address the financial challenges without undermining the social objective of their pension systems; third, a strong desire by the Member States to preserve the specificity of the pension systems in their efforts to modernise them.
After all, the responsibility for designing and managing pension systems remains with the Member States and there is no intention of changing that.
It is against that background that our efforts to create an internal market framework for the institutions offering occupational pensions must be considered.
A directive aimed at creating a prudential framework for pension funds must fit in with this process of steady but gradual and coordinated reform of national pension systems.
This directive must also - and this has been of fundamental importance for the Commission - fully respect two essential principles: first, full respect for the very wide diversity of the occupational retirement business among Member States and, second, non-interference in the organisation of Member States' pensions systems.
I am very pleased to note that the package of compromise amendments tabled by the PPE-DE, Socialist and Liberal groups fully complies with those two principles.
Our group was very concerned at any possibility of the directive failing for lack of consensus in Parliament or between Parliament and the Council.
But the rapporteur has very successfully squared this very difficult circle.
We in the PPE-DE Group are very pleased to support the compromise which the rapporteur and the Commissioner have engineered.
For example, compromise Amendments 4 and 12 give Member States the right to provide an option for coverage of biometric risks.
I would also back this compromise that has been reached if, under the leadership either of the rapporteur or of a delegation from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, it were to be introduced into plenary immediately following negotiations with the Commission.
A submitted compromise, or a wording presented by the Commission, has a history to it, however, and such compromises or wordings seem to me to be matters of dispute within the ECOFIN Council where, according to what I have been told, one or other of the Member States was, in the end, quite prepared to use another veto.
I am particularly perturbed by the fact that, in the compromise proposal, the Commission has removed the policyholders' obligation, upon request, to provide information about their current pension rights.
Companies also suffer from a less mobile workforce and the additional bureaucracy, administration and costs involved in managing multiple pensions systems.
Firms with a presence in all fifteen Member States face an estimated EUR 40 million a year in extra costs through having to deal with fifteen different pension providers and legal arrangements.
Funded occupational retirement schemes in the EU cover 25% of the EU workforce and are currently valued at more than EUR 2 500 billion.
They are expected to grow to more than EUR 7 000 billion by 2010.
This is a key plank in the opening up of the financial services market.
Member States are responsible for determining the social requirements - such as death in service benefits - for their own pension funds and the tax reliefs that they give, consistent with subsidiarity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe a directive on supplementary retirement provision businesses should have been established to provide a degree of social protection.
We voted against this report at the first reading at the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Confidence in these pension fund systems will not be restored without strict management rules and mutual insurance structures for the guarantees.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will vote in favour of the proposal of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left calling for the common position to be rejected.
We are not supporting this proposal because we wish to oppose the financing of supplementary pensions through accumulation of capital on principle.
It has been no easy task to reach a compromise on such a complex issue as the supervision of occupational retirement provision.
I have submitted three amendments on behalf of the EDD Group, but also at the request of a number of fellow Members from other groups.
In Recital 8 there is after all clear reference to the principle of subsidiarity.
If I receive a satisfactory answer to my questions, I will be prepared to reconsider my amendment.
The English text contains the words 'or authorised' and I think that this is what must appear in the Dutch text too.
I have been a privileged witness of the ferocity of the bulls he has had to fight: the Council - which is very divided - the Commission, the other groups in this House and in particular my own group, which has given him more headaches than all the other groups together.
Secondly, I would like to stress the generosity of the European Parliament.
It is true that we have managed to have many of the amendments we presented at first reading accepted, but it is also the case that we have sacrificed legitimate, well-founded and well-argued aspirations in order to achieve a text which can be accepted by the Council.
We have sacrificed these positions, however, because we have always been aware that this directive was essential, at least for three reasons.
And, thirdly, because it will help to increase European saving, to increase the depth of the European financial market, which is the global objective of the financial services action plan.
That saving will allow us to fund - and this ties in with what I said in the previous report - the investments we need in order to grow, in order to increase our employment and our productivity.
I would like to stress the increase in transparency due to the information obligations required of the providers of these services, of the people who provide and guarantee these pensions, both with regard to the authorities and the participants.
Secondly, and contrary to what somebody said from the benches of the left, because it incorporates social orientations which are very dear to those of us who advocate a social market economy.
The result of the second reading will probably be acceptable overall.
We are going to create a European passport for pension funds.
In the United States, pension funds provided by large companies are having to face up to a deficit of more than USD 300 billion.
In Great Britain, the company pension funds deficit was estimated at between GBP 65 and 130 billion at the end of 2002.
Mr President, it is true that first-pillar pension funds are more sensitive to demographic change and that second-pillar pension funds are more sensitive to changes in the conditions prevailing on the stock market and in the financial markets.
I am also very pleased with this compromise.
It is quite clear that not everything is regulated.
Some speakers have been addressing just one point, that we should do nothing social at all any more and that Member States should actually submit to the system that applies in the country that does least.
In my country it has up to now been customary to insure biometric risks.
If someone from Great Britain suddenly appears on the market and does not insure any biometric risks and makes no mention of that and only talks of pots of gold, as appears to happen in the United Kingdom, then it could be that people quite mistakenly make inadequate retirement provision.
It must be possible to prevent things of this kind and so that is why the compromise is exceptionally good.
That is one of those rulings that lead to Member States thinking twice before taking discriminatory tax measures against pension funds that happen not to be established in their own country.
The course of events surrounding this matter for codecision does not, in my view, deserve any beauty prize, but I can nevertheless agree with the compromise that has been achieved at the last moment and to which the Council has already given its approval.
It shows that the Council and the Commission were in any event prepared to take Parliament seriously as a co-legislator.
As far as the content is concerned, I am no great enthusiast either, but with the compromise proposals we are in any event certainly giving a sharper outline to the definition of the funds that fall under this directive and that are now acquiring a European passport to invest and to offer their services across borders.
If you want to propagate the second-pillar, fully-funded pensions, you also have to lead the discussion about the structure and the quality of these schemes.
You cannot simply deal with them as if they were financial market products, which invest in the capital market and which have to find their way in the internal market as commercial services.
No, the second pillar in the Netherlands expressly belongs with the first pillar, with the social security schemes and must not be lumped together with the individual third-pillar products for those who can afford them.
That was also always on the agenda in the discussion and that should also therefore be developed further by way of the spring summit and those discussions about open coordination.
On this point far more must happen, not only fiscally, but also where the portability of pensions is concerned.
In addition, I would like to say to my friend, Othmar, that the Republic of Austria has reportedly overcome the difficult challenges of its history through a remarkable ability to establish consensus and find solutions to benefit all parties.
Ensuring the existence of retirement provision will be one of the main political challenges of the EU Member States in the years to come.
To address this challenge, however, we have a difficult message for the people of Europe.
Although the Member States have the main responsibility for retirement provision we at Union level can implement measures to help promote retirement schemes by creating a sustainable basis for financing them.
This directive on the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision will create a legislative framework for Europe-wide action and will be one of the measures needed to defuse the pensions bomb.
This will be especially true on the day we make headway with decisions on taxation.
The directive will, on the one hand, promote the development of European financial markets and, on the other, benefit employees, who will profit from a more efficient and more transparent investment policy regarding their pensions.
The EU citizen has long been able to benefit from local social and health services in another Member State.
Furthermore, there has been common legislation in existence now for years applying to institutions providing personal pension insurance.
The directive now leaves the social partners in the Member States with a free hand to choose how to organise comprehensive voluntary retirement provision.
This is a reasonable European compromise considering the differences that exist among pension systems in the Member States.
Our negotiations were at times both very intensive and intense, but I believe that we will be satisfied with the end result.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, the Commission and the presidency on producing a package of compromises.
Compromise was very necessary.
In the UK, for example, people aged 16 have recently been outnumbered by people aged 60.
Many companies are hamstrung by administrative and legal costs prohibiting the promotion of such funds across the European Union.
Even though this directive delivers a balanced view, taking into account the various factors affecting Member States, it is clear that the cross-border approach to supplementary pensions needs more in the way of liberalising articles.
Some companies in my country which believe that they can pull out of defined benefit schemes have even looked to this particular directive as an excuse, but Brussels gives no such excuse to those companies.
It is just that all this is very difficult to achieve in the framework of occupational retirement provision that is only offered on a time-limited basis.
In spite of his best efforts, the rapporteur has not succeeded in improving the common position, which really does not add anything in terms of quality.
Devising a framework within which products are offered that, from today's point of view, may seriously impair living standards in old age has nothing to do with a sense of political responsibility.
In recent years, British pension funds alone have lost 35 million pounds, and rather more still in the years before that, so they too have not exactly excelled.
Quality regulation of the European market is certainly not brought about by a minimal duty to provide information, together with what is no more than discretionary wording enabling the Member States to define quality for a restricted market with reference to biometric risks.
If - as you yourself always do, Commissioner - we want to see such quality or an increase in quality, then we can, at this stage, really make no better start than by agreeing to the proposal by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left to reject the common position.
Mr President, I welcome the fact that, following years of tough negotiations between the Commission, the Council and Parliament - and thanks to our rapporteur, who has been indefatigable in his search for compromises - approval of this pensions directive is now within reach.
The Council has given an assurance that it is able to agree to the package before us.
I could have lived with the common position because the directive concerned is of course designed primarily to regulate, without barriers to competition, the cross-border activities of pension fund providers, and not the product itself.
It was essential to devise a directive that, on the one hand, did not, from the outset, force these financial service providers into a suffocating straightjacket of regulations, for example governing investment policy; and that, on the other hand, organised supervision in such a way that the benefits paid to policyholders were secured in the best way possible.
Naturally, the directive can be made to reflect a pious desire for the arrangements concerning occupational retirement provision also to cover the famous biometric risks such as disablement, widow's and orphan's pensions etc.
I am sorry that we were unable to bring to fruition a concern, to which I and other MEPs had committed ourselves, that financial institutions in addition to pension funds and insurance companies should be able to offer their services in the field of occupational pensions insurance.
The package does, however, oblige the EU Commission to examine how matters stand in the market for occupational retirement provision in order to make it possible for other financial services providers too to come within the scope of this directive.
That being said, this directive has done nothing to bring about a common market in supplementary pensions.
We definitely need a regulation to prevent the double taxation of premiums and benefits, and I hope that we shall have the considerable judgment required in order to devise a sensible regulation quickly.
I welcome the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Parliament agree on the compromise text, which may not satisfy everyone.
There has been a discussion process in the Council concerning the Commission's suggestions to improve the exchange of information on cross-border pensions and to deal with double taxation and double non-taxation.
A number of Member States could only accept any sort of agreement if the issue of residence taxation of pension payouts versus source taxation was also tackled.
Last month the Commission sent a reasoned opinion to Denmark and five letters of formal notice to Belgium, Spain, France, Italy and Portugal.
In all those Member States pension contributions paid to foreign funds are not tax-deductible, while contributions paid to domestic funds are.
The Commission is convinced that Community law prohibits such a difference in treatment.
I can assure Parliament that these infringement cases are a priority for the Commission, which will do whatever is necessary to open up the markets effectively for cross-border pension provisions.
To Mr Purvis I say that this directive is based on two principles: first, the principle of compliance with prudential requirements of the home Member States and second, compliance with the social and labour legislation of the host Member States, i.e.
Let me turn to the amendments submitted to the vote.
I am please to say that the Commission can accept Amendments 1, 5, 13, 15, 22 and the package of amendments 25 to 37.
The commission cannot accept the other amendments, which for the most part aim at widening the scope of the directive.
It considers that the directive should not regulate in a restrictive way the products offered by pension funds.
The directive must also respect the diversity of occupational pension systems while setting some strict standards to ensure their mutual recognition, but without imposing unnecessary costs for pension funds.
That is why the Commission rejects Amendments 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 14, 16 and 18.
The directive should not experiment by allowing for the possibility of extending the scope of this directive to institutions that today do not offer occupational pension products.
Institutions that already benefit from a single market framework should not be covered by this directive, with the exception of life insurance companies, for which Member States must retain the option to apply this directive for activities linked to pension provisions.
That is why the Commission cannot accept, regrettably, Amendments 2, 6, 8, 10 and 17.
The directive must make full reference to an effective system to ensure efficient exchange of information between competent authorities and promote consistent enforcement of the directive, but that must be done without prejudice to possible future structures.
That is why the Commission cannot accept Amendments 7, 19, 20, 21 and 23.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 24 tabled by the Group of the Greens and the European Free Alliance since it considers that pension funds, as very long-term investors with low liquidity risks, should not be overly restricted in their investment in non-liquid assets such as shares.
The Commission cannot accept the motion for rejection of the common position, since it considers the common position to be a finely balanced compromise and recommends its adoption to the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.) WRITTEN DECLARATION (RULE 120) The common position adopted by the Council forms part of the aim of applying the private capitalisation approach to the financial resources of national pensions systems, in other words, submitting these enormous financial volumes to the methods of the capital markets and enabling the financial sector to speculate on them.
Creating a single market for occupational pensions was one of the priorities of the 'Lisbon strategy', under the Financial Services Action Plan, which seeks to achieve the integration or liberalisation of capital markets in the European Union.
The objectives of private capitalisation are clearly demonstrated in the lack of genuine prudential rules, in the liberalisation of investments and service provision at European level and in the absence of guarantees covering all risks, or allowing them only on an optional basis.
The rapporteur himself, in his explanatory statement, sets the tone, by stating that this proposal will contribute to the development of the financial markets, acknowledging that the common position lacks balance between taking into account the social security of the beneficiaries and the aim of creating a simple framework for capital markets.
The court's 18 judges will be sworn in and the court will be inaugurated today.
On behalf of the European Parliament, I should like to say in the clearest way that we, in this Parliament, have promoted and defended human rights.
