The situation in general concerning legal bases underlines the need for a single system of legal bases for justice, liberty and security issues.
I know that the European Parliament shares the Commission’s point of view on this very important matter, which I will raise again during the informal Council in Tampere in a few days’ time.
I believe that this new agreement under negotiation with the United States should have the same content and include the same level of safeguards regarding legal certainty for air carriers, respect for human rights, notably the right to privacy, and the purposes for which the PNR data may be used.
The Commission is doing its utmost to start negotiations with the United States as soon as possible.
It is indeed my intention to report to Parliament regularly on this issue and, as you probably know, I shall be participating in a meeting of the LIBE Committee next week, on 12&#160;September.
Finally, I want to recall that, should no new agreement be in place on 1&#160;October, air carriers flying from Europe to the United States risk legal complaints from citizens based on divergent national legislation on the transfer of PNR data to the United States.
However, we are all fully aware of the fact that this issue can only be debated in a wider context, particularly in the light of the information received last night to the effect that President Bush has finally admitted that secret CIA detention camps actually exist.
We should look at this issue in the wider context of the methods used to combat terrorism – the methods that we in Europe want to use in the fight against terrorism and the methods that are used by our friend and ally, the United States.
The case of the CIA detention camps and rendition flights and the case of the PNR Agreement demonstrate very clearly the urgent need for Europe to speak with a single voice.
You therefore have my wholehearted support for the proposal on the bridging clause.
It is therefore very important that all European countries and the EU institutions close ranks and adopt a united stance.
I very much welcome the much more forthcoming attitude adopted by the Council and Commission this week.
We would have preferred to improve the agreement, but the US would like to move in another direction.
I therefore feel that the best we can achieve at the moment is to have the same agreement but on a new legal basis.
We should not share more data than is strictly needed to achieve our purpose.
If there is to be such a policy then we would prefer that it were presented here in Parliament.
Finally, I should like to make a very urgent appeal to the Council to adopt proper arrangements for data protection under the Third Pillar, along the lines set out by our rapporteur, Mrs Roure. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, we are four-square behind the objective of preventing and combating terrorism, given that this threat has already been visited on some of our Member States and hangs over all of us at all times.
We want to cooperate with other countries in the fight against terrorism, not least the United States of America.
This will put the Union in a stronger position as regards not only the prevention of, and fight against, terrorism, but also the protection of fundamental rights.
We know that this is a short-term agreement to fill in the gap between the obsolete agreement and a new long-term agreement, which is something that can and must be considered at the earliest opportunity.
I therefore support the idea of starting dialogue before the year is out between the EU and the USA, Canada and Australia with a view to jointly preparing the 2007 review and to setting up a global standard for forwarding passenger name records.
I hope that this desire is translated into practical action and is not restricted to rhetoric, and that the Council follows suit. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, on behalf of my group, I should, of course, like to begin by giving my full support to the report by my fellow Member, Mrs&#160;in't Veld.
Mr&#160;Frattini is proposing that we keep the same text and just change the legal basis, as denounced by the Court.
Nor will we be able to accept a procedure that bypasses the role and the democratic function of the national parliaments in this sector.
Under the 2004 EU APIS Directive, governments gave themselves the power to use the personal data for law-enforcement purposes ‘in accordance with their national law and subject to the data protection provisions under Directive 95/46/EC’.
Members from various groups have already spoken to address the fundamental problems that there are with it, the first of which is the use to which the data is to be put, and second the legal basis by reference to which the data is to be forwarded.
The European Parliament is excluded from these talks about a problem that involves all of Europe’s citizens.
My group strongly endorses what Mrs&#160;in’t Veld is proposing, particularly the need to change to a ‘push’ system for an agreement in the short term, and the need to avoid the direct transfer of data to the judicial authorities for an agreement in the medium term.
Systematically keeping a check on people in the name of the fight against terrorism is an authoritarian distortion of the rule of law and, paradoxically, by doing so we are helping to achieve precisely what the terrorists want.
This Parliament challenged the original agreement between the US and the EU because it believed that the legal basis was wrong and disagreed with the substance.
The legal basis will be altered, but since the European Court of Justice did not comment on the substance, in real terms nothing has changed except, of course, the fact that the European Court of Justice will not have competence over the new agreement.
This indicates clearly once again why the United Kingdom would be so much better served by organising such international agreements and arrangements on a bilateral basis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is of course touching, and also right and proper that there should be – as this debate makes evident – concerns about Europeans’ civil liberties, and so I want to avail myself of this forum in order to say that I do not see much defence of fundamental civil liberties when, for example, in my home country of Belgium, the state’s security services blatantly bug the telephones of democratically elected members of parliament belonging to my party, which is what they did recently with the telephone of Filip De Winter, who heads our group in the Flemish parliament.
It is lamentable that, when the civil liberties and the privacy of elected parliamentarians, no less, in Brussels, in the heart of the European Union, are violated, I hear nothing said by those Members of this House who are jumping at the chance to rap the knuckles of the ‘Great Satan’ in Washington, so let us not act like wronged maidens.
Regrettably, that is the price that has to be paid for greater security and for greater freedom. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, now that we have this ruling from the ECJ, our first priority is to avoid the vacuum that results from the absence of a treaty, for the consequences of this would be negative not only for the airlines but also for their passengers, in that it might even result in planes being banned from landing, and will, in any case, mean longer waiting times for passengers flying to the USA, since they will now have to supply the information at the airport.
It is for that reason that we support – and I personally do – Commissioner Frattini's intervention in these negotiations, which should involve an amended legal basis in accordance with the ECJ’s ruling, but with the substance of the former agreement, covering precisely those things we proposed then and those that have been added.
I would like to say something about the things we need to do in order to put this into practice.
For a start, and quite apart from the fact that we would rather do this at the European level, rather than having the nation states doing it each off their own bat, I would like to express my doubt as to whether we really do have the legal power to do it.
What is meant – or required – to happen now, following the judges’ ruling, is the conclusion, in a very short space of time, of a new agreement absolving all twenty-five Member States of the need to conclude bilateral agreements with the USA on an individual basis, which would certainly not be in the interests of a high – and above all else uniform – level of protection for the European public.
However, in all cases, on such a serious issue, there must be close cooperation between the institutions, with the active – I repeat – participation of the European Parliament, especially the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, at all levels of negotiation.
With these comments, I think that we shall vote for the opinion expressed in my honourable friend's report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I fully endorse the approach of our rapporteur, Mrs in ‘t Veld.
It is only normal that we, as Members of the European Parliament, seek the protection of our citizens’ rights as we fight against terrorism.
If we cannot even honour the principles of democracy when we decide on the fundamental rights of our citizens, then when can we?
I hope for a joint session of the European Parliament and the United States Congress, as I am sure that American parliamentarians are more subject to reason than the Bush Government. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I am rather pessimistic about the outcome of this agreement.
I support what has been said, particularly by the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;in ’t Veld, but the problem is that we – the European Union and the European Commission – have given up our negotiating power: that is why we should feel pessimistic.
Data gathered for commercial purposes cannot be systematically used for security purposes either in the United States or even in Europe, not even if we wanted our data to be used in that way.
The so-called 'anti-terrorism campaign' has one objective: to terrorise the people and subjugate them, but we believe that it will not ultimately succeed in doing so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the fight against terrorism has been stepped up.
After what has happened, this has of course been necessary, but we must engage successfully in that fight without undermining fundamental democratic ideas and values.
It is important to have rigorous security procedures, but to overstep the line and forgo the balance between combating terrorism and respecting fundamental rights would benefit none of us in the long run.
I would therefore call on Mr&#160;Frattini to make political innovation his goal in the necessary cross-border dialogue.
It is important for Parliament to participate in this process.
Europe must speak with one voice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has been an interesting debate and I should just like perhaps to add a note of realism.
We must remember that we are not talking about travel within the EU: we are talking about travel to the United States.
An attack upon the United States, an attack in Germany, an attack in Denmark, an attack in Madrid, an attack in the United Kingdom, or attempted attacks, are attacks upon every single one of us because we have common values.
My colleague Mr Coelho cited some brilliant examples of negotiations and agreements currently in place.
That information has to be exchanged as part of the fight against crime and terrorism is not, of course, a matter of doubt, but there need to be binding legal provisions governing who may have access to the data, where they may do so, and in what manner.
Something else that is plain to see is that if the forwarding of passengers’ personal details really is intended to result in better protection against terrorist attacks, this measure cannot be restricted to flights to the United States, Canada or Australia.
Ladies and gentlemen, that ruling was a major setback for Community interests; it was a major setback for this Parliament and for the European Commission.
The real problem is that, if this agreement does not come about, millions of European citizens will accept lower guarantees of protection for their personal data in order to continue flying to the United States.
The real problem is this: each of us who has tried to do his or her duty cannot even think of challenging the United States.
The second consideration – again, I agree with Mr&#160;Cashman and Mr&#160;Coelho – is that our problem is certainly due not to the United States but to the terrorists.
The terrorist threat is real: what happened this summer in London did not constitute a half-secret or semi-informal meeting of ministers of internal affairs with the European Commission.
In any case, Parliament will be kept politically informed by the European Commission.
It is also a question of cooperation and, as you know, the European Commission agrees with that in principle.
Some of them – I can mention just a few: British Airways, Air France, Iberia, Lufthansa, Alitalia and KLM, nearly all of them, in fact – have submitted concrete proposals to the relevant offices of the US Administration.
Under the agreements that we had reached with the United States, the ‘push’ system could start operating without any need for changes within just a few weeks.
To conclude, I shall be pleased to inform the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs about what was said in London regarding procedures to enhance methods for detecting explosives, particularly liquid explosives, as well as on Internet use, positive profiling and everything else. – The joint debate is closed.
The purpose of my report is to formulate specific proposals for the protection, promotion and long-term management of this rich heritage in rural and island regions in Europe, for the benefit of the quality of life of all European citizens.
This will be achieved provided that the European Commission, when preparing its legislative proposals, examines in detail the repercussions of the proposals on culture, on the cultural heritage and, most importantly, on the popular architectural heritage which artisans have created by hand over the centuries.
In particular, within the framework of multiannual cooperation projects under the programme, a network could be created of important architectural communities in various Member States with a population of up to 1&#160;000 inhabitants.
These communities will carry out activities of a cultural nature depending on the traditions of each area, in order to strengthen cooperation between important architectural and cultural communities in Europe and give them the facility to develop their local characteristics, habits, customs and traditions.
Over and above that, however, the European Commission is also called upon to create a new European institution for important small traditional communities, along the lines of that instituting the cultural capitals, whereby one or two interesting communities would be selected each year, in which restoration and renovation interventions would be carried out and cultural events would be held throughout the year.
Finally, the report also proposes the introduction in the European Union of a 'European Cultural Heritage Year', the purpose of which will be to raise the awareness of European citizens about the importance of the cultural heritage, irrespective of its European, national or local dimension.
However, the Commission’s involvement has already been demonstrated both through the present Culture 2000 Programme and through other European programmes and financial instruments.
Such investments are clearly important means for the creation of new employment opportunities and for economic growth.
I am very pleased at this development and could give you examples of Member States, such as Greece or Portugal, that have grasped the opportunities offered by Community support frameworks and have introduced operational programmes for cultural heritage.
The Commission also encourages cooperation between Member States in the field of culture and cultural heritage through the Culture 2000 Programme.
Thanks to the sound cooperation between the three institutions – and I should like to take this opportunity to thank, again on behalf of Mr Figel', the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura – this new programme for 2007-2013 will hopefully be adopted before the end of the year.
In this context, partnerships such as those proposed in the report could be considered for funding in the near future.
We are at a juncture when our new culture programme is about to be adopted, when the Commission is reflecting on its actions for the coming years and when many points are up for discussion.
This report will certainly be of major interest in that context. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the importance of cultural heritage in Europe’s rural and island regions is to be recognised, we must go beyond the mere statements of principle on which politicians are so often keen, and urgently adopt a complete range of measures aimed at protecting, restoring and promoting it.
The Sifunakis report does the right thing by proposing a range of political priorities in order to reach those goals.
The document before us is an extremely broad tapestry, and covers many more points than I have mentioned.
It is very important that people’s awareness of the cultural treasures of their own country and of Europe be fostered, and a European Cultural Heritage Year will certainly be able to highlight a number of them and make them more aware of their importance.
Anyone who has had the opportunity to travel through Europe, whether to islands such as Madeira, the Canaries, Cyprus or Malta, or to visit rural areas in Tuscany, Scotland, Latvia, Finland, Poland or Provence, knows the beauty and diversity of this European cultural heritage and how readily people can be persuaded to take a stand in its defence.
We in the European Union must therefore foster linguistic diversity, because language is the basis of culture, and also popular culture, which is the basis of national culture.
That is, of course, as long as some of the misguided, unsustainable development plans from Mr John Prescott, our Deputy Prime Minister, can be halted.
Rural communities are not just part of our collective memory; they are the vital cradle of our values and the fount of social relations that are often considerably more balanced than those of urban communities, as well as being absolutely essential for safeguarding our culture and environment.
Commissioner, cultural heritage is an important element in the identity and historical development of the peoples of Europe.
Special attention must therefore be given to protecting and promoting the natural and architectural cultural heritage of island and other rural regions of Europe, given that these areas retain a great many of their characteristics unchanged.
The restoration and maintenance of forgotten monuments in the outer regions of the Member States could also contribute towards the development of rural tourism and, by extension, to boosting the population in the countryside.
Finally, recognising and maintaining the common cultural heritage are an important bequest to future generations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Sifunakis, on his work, which stresses the specific nature and importance of European natural, cultural and artistic heritage, which generates many benefits, social and cultural as well as environmental and economic.
At a time, therefore, when, on the one hand, the abandonment of the countryside, depopulation and economic crisis, and, on the other, fires and the proliferation of natural disasters demonstrate the urgent need for agricultural professionals who can work on and look after our environment and ensure the sustainability and the future of our territory and our countryside, this report is very timely, because it stresses the need to implement an effective policy based essentially on a sustainable balance between the population and the environment and on an integrated approach to traditional agricultural areas, particularly rural communities.
This situation has been repeatedly condemned by civil society organisations and I myself have denounced it before the European Commission and in this very Chamber.
If this Parliament and the European institutions as a whole take into account the proposals contained in Mr Sifunakis’ report, this kind of damage could be avoided and small islands, rural sites and cultural heritage could be properly preserved.
That is our main goal now. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to express my support and gratitude for Mr&#160;Sifunakis’ report and endorse all the words of commendation uttered today regarding this document.
The new houses may have been more comfortable, but they were not always more attractive than the old ones.
I also believe that Europe’s historical and cultural heritage, in particular that of rural areas, must not be considered solely in economic terms, nor should it serve only the interests of tourism.
I regard Sibiu, formerly known as Hermannstadt, in Transylvania, about which there was an exhibition of photographs in this House yesterday, as an example of the degree to which the European Union can promote and support our cultural heritage. &#160;&#160; The preservation of the architectural cultural heritage in rural and island regions also represents the preservation of European cultural diversity and the roots of individual nations.
Attempts to achieve ever greater inter–connectedness mean that areas of new growth in European cities are becoming increasingly alike.
Certainly, the most genuine cultural and natural heritage is to be found in rural regions.
If we view cultural and natural heritage solely through the lens of money and profit, then all it brings us is financial loss.
I agree with the proposal for the Year of European Cultural Heritage as it will raise awareness amongst our citizens of the importance of cultural heritage.
But I also support the proposal for us to earmark funding from the structural funds for the preservation of natural and cultural heritage in smaller villages, because by doing so we will rekindle the interest of owners and local communities in restoration.
Small communities, too, deserve an opportunity to receive incentives and funding. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Sifunakis, on his wonderful report.
That means first of all improving overall conditions in the countryside, including not only restoring and preserving architecture from both a monumental and a landscape point of view, but also taking into consideration the people who live in and share the reality of small rural villages.
The people who live in these areas must be provided with all the means necessary to be able to carry on their traditions in their towns, villages or islands.
The EU’s global cultural heritage strategy needs to become a real cross-cutting element in other policies, just as environmental sustainability is, and all policies need to be integrated together in this respect.
I should like to go back over just two points: that of the funding of the Culture 2000 project and that of the proposal, put forward specifically by the rapporteur, to make 2009 the European Cultural Heritage Year.
I also wish to take advantage of this opportunity to point out to you that my colleague, Mr&#160;Figel', recently made an important proposal aimed at making 2008 the Year of Intercultural Dialogue, a proposal that the Commission has adopted.
I consider this report very topical, as it analyses the current situation and seeks to identify solutions that would support the rural areas and islands of Europe.
It focuses on aid for micro-enterprises, young farmers, traditional handicrafts and trades, local customs and traditions, which will help assure job creation and a better and more attractive life in the countryside.
The EU should introduce a comprehensive approach to sustaining cultural heritage, ensuring that provisions on aid are included in all policies.
I welcome the ‘European Heritage Days’ initiative and the exchange of experience in this field through international conferences.
In discussing this report, the EP has confirmed that it takes seriously the sustainable development of Europe’s rural areas. &#160;&#160; As Malta and Gozo are the smallest nation in the European Union it is only natural that one refers to their architecture and cultural heritage in a holistic way.
Valletta, one of the most beautiful cultural capitals in Europe, is still in a disastrous state.
I appeal to the German and Italian governments to make a gesture of goodwill by rebuilding the Opera House which was destroyed through aerial bombings thus enhancing Valletta architecturally and contributing to its cultural heritage. &#160;&#160; – The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to propose the following oral amendment: ‘Calls upon the Chinese authorities to reveal the whereabouts of human rights lawyer Gao Zhisheng and to release him unless he is to be charged with a recognised criminal offence; similarly calls for the release of Chen Guangcheng, who has helped citizens in their attempts to sue their local authorities for carrying out forced abortions and sterilisations, and of Bu Dongwei, who has been assigned to two and a half years of “Re-education through Labour” (RTL) and who is detained at an undisclosed location; therefore urges the authorities to ensure that all human rights defenders can carry out peaceful and legitimate activities without fear of arbitrary arrest, torture or ill-treatment and that they be given access to proper legal representation in the event of arrest;’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we too would have been happy to endorse this important report on China, but, as it does not accept the ‘one China – two systems’ concept, we cannot vote to approve it.
Since, however, it does voice many justified concerns about human rights, we will not be voting against it, but will abstain from voting. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in order to nip a potential myth in the bud, let me say that this House, by a large majority, adopted Amendment&#160;33, which would appear to make reference to that concept, so your justification, Mr Swoboda, is wrong, and you ought to vote for the report. &#160;&#160; We are not going to re-open the debate and we shall proceed with the vote.
We are now talking only about the particularly badly affected regions in Spain, although there were fires in Portugal, Greece, France and other countries too.
In his statement, Commissioner&#160;Dimas said that the only country in which the European civil protection mechanism was applied this summer was Spain.
Since we want that delegation to travel before 6&#160;October, therefore, it is physically impossible to visit all of the countries that he has mentioned.
I propose that the visit to Spain before 6&#160;October go ahead as planned and, if his group wants us to visit other countries after 6&#160;October, he has my assurance that I will vote in favour of that. &#160;&#160; I have other requests to speak, but I do not wish to re-open the debate.
There are in fact two ways in which to achieve legislative harmonisation.
The attitude of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is in fact an argument in itself in favour of voting to adopt this report, since they criticised what they saw as the excessive attention given in it to the human rights situation in China.
Because China is the EU’s second largest trading partner, efficient contacts are important. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;Belder’s report is meant to be exhaustive in covering the range of violations committed by the People’s Republic of China, both in terms of its international trade commitments at the WTO (dumping in all its guises, counterfeiting and piracy, obstacles faced by China’s trade partners in accessing its market, etc) and of human rights.
There is no doubt that, within the Europe that you have in store for us, money will always be more important than people. &#160;&#160; For the European Union, China is a very important trading partner.
Among the many points worthy of comment, I should just like to highlight Parliament’s support for relegating EU-China relations to a position of secondary importance behind the framework of the ‘American initiative of starting a strategic dialogue with Europe on China’s rise – a central new element in the policy of the ‘new’ world towards the ‘old’’, encouraging ‘the European Union and its Member States to develop, together with the USA, a strategic consensus for dealing with China’.
Lastly, a word of regret for the attitude of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which attempted to remove the report, in anticipation of a result that would not suit their interests.
I do not support a one-China policy! &#160;&#160; We have today voted in favour of the report on launching a debate on a Community approach towards eco-labelling schemes for fisheries products.
I wonder, however, how one can talk of equidistance. &#160;&#160; – For 34 days, the world watched a military operation by a super-equipped army which, thanks to the ministrations of the USA and the super-modern rockets which it sent right up to the end – flattened and invaded south Lebanon, killing hundreds of civilians, displacing a third of the population and putting the economy of the country back twenty years.
Israel is guilty of a great many war crimes, as confirmed by the reports of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.
We in Europe and the United Nations need to press for this indigenous Iraqi community, like the Kurds, Sunnis and Shia, to have their own administration area within a united Iraq, as mentioned in the Iraqi constitution.
The joint motion for a resolution does not seem to me to respond to this concern for balance in view, among other things, of recitals A and B, and of paragraphs 17, 20 and 25.
I therefore voted against this resolution. &#160;&#160; The June List deeply regrets the current situation in Lebanon.
The conflict in Lebanon is a text-book example of the way in which violence begets violence, and we strongly repudiate all forms of violence perpetrated by both sides.
Peace in the Middle East can only be built between peoples, countries and States that are free and democratic, responsible for their own acts and capable of administering their own territory.
Now that the USA’s policy in the area has proved a failure, it is vital that a new regional peace conference – a ‘Madrid II’ – be held in order to find a comprehensive, sustainable and attainable solution based on the right of the State of Israel to live within secure and recognised borders and on the right of the Palestinians to a viable state of their own, based on the occupied territories, with a great deal of attention given to security and disarmament.
The EU must revive dialogue with Syria and involve that country in the efforts towards peace, by signing the joint association agreement as a major step towards addressing human rights there in a more effective way. &#160;&#160; – For 34 days, the world watched a military operation by a super-equipped army which, thanks to the ministrations of the USA and the super-modern rockets which it sent right up to the end – flattened and invaded south Lebanon, killing hundreds of civilians, displacing a third of the population and putting the economy of the country back twenty years.
Israel is guilty of a great many war crimes, as confirmed by the reports of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.
The fact is that the European Union does not seem to have enough involvement in the response to these crises, and I regret that the resolution does not clearly and more firmly support the idea of creating a European civil protection force.
This would not mean recruiting officials responsible for civil protection, but having chief personnel at European level with the power to coordinate certain civil protection forces within the Union’s territory, and this, at the request of a Member State unable to tackle a specific situation. &#160;&#160; We have today voted against the joint resolution on forest fires.
We believe that, in certain cases, the EU should provide financial aid to affected countries and regions when extreme natural disasters occur.
Such aid must not, however, give rise to a situation in which forest fires lead to financial benefit.
However, this resolution does not sufficiently address the fact that most of these fires seem to have been deliberately started by arsonists.
It is imperative that individual Member States take more preventive action to stop these deliberate acts from re-occurring.
We also welcome the emphasis on the need for the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and Forest Focus to channel their efforts into preventing forest fires in southern countries. &#160;&#160; The June List welcomes international solidarity when a country is hit by forest fires or floods.
The Member States are responsible for emergency management on their territory, and they must be held to account when they do not do everything in their power to prevent such disasters.
I must express my sadness at the loss of human life in various fires in my country and other European countries.
If we needed reasons to be more effective, the actions undertaken in our countries and the Union’s aid measures are intertwined with the loss of human life.
I voted for a renewed commitment to this WTO round, as an ambitious trade round but also as the development round it was originally intended to be. &#160;&#160; . – At the Geneva summit in June 2006, Europe showed itself to be flexible until it submitted at the WTO trade negotiations.
The negotiations will end up being resumed, but we already know that the Commission has yielded with regard to export subsidies and to the protection of our agriculture and our viticulture against the social dumping of third countries, in which multinationals manufacture goods without there being any labour law or social legislation.
The fact that negotiations have reached an impasse is terrible news.
This must be done in a fair and balanced way, and in such a way as to benefit the most competitive producers, the most hard-working exporters and, that no less important but oft-forgotten player, the consumer.
Agreement will evidently take more time, though in the short term there are other weapons in our armoury.
Included in these data are 34 categories of information, for example: hotel and travel bookings, telephone numbers, email addresses, private and work addresses, favourite foods, numbers of credit cards, and many others.
The Court of Justice backed Parliament’s view as regards the legal basis, overturning the Council’s decision, with effect from 1&#160;October&#160;2006.
This is another unacceptable situation that must end, as it undermines rights, freedoms and guarantees, and forms part of the current trend towards securitarianism.
The protection of our citizens’ fundamental rights is without question the backbone of any negotiation in this area.
Yet we cannot ignore that the world is a terrifying place in which the prevention and fight against terrorism is an increasingly important value and objective.
Whilst globalisation has opened up new worlds and new trade and enabled the citizens to explore new territories, it has also enabled new monsters to show their claws.
There are measures that must be taken quickly, based on clear, precise principles, to protect our citizens from any attack on their lives, their property and their fundamental rights.
I am therefore in no doubt that these are the same principles that will guide our partners at the negotiating table and that the agreement will be negotiated with a view to protecting our citizens. &#160;&#160; . – I should like to pay tribute to the outstanding work of my colleague, Mr&#160;Sifunakis, regarding the protection of the European natural, architectural and cultural heritage in rural and island regions.
As the elected representative of a rural region in which the natural heritage is protected, the architectural heritage is ancient and the cultural heritage is rich, I appreciate the importance of this report.
All European initiatives such as the ‘European Union Cultural Heritage Prize’ and the ‘European Heritage Days’ must be encouraged and made more widely known in order to promote the diversity and richness of Europe’s heritage, as a factor of social cohesion.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr&#160;Sifunakis (Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Greece) on the protection of the European natural, architectural and cultural heritage in rural and island regions, because I believe that the historical and cultural heritage of rural island regions should make a substantial contribution towards enhancing the social and economic development of these regions.
I also believe that the positive aspect of this report lies in the promotion of the concept of sustainable development, capable of striking a vital balance between local communities and the environment, and in the integrated attitude that it proposes for traditional farming areas.
As regards the civic participation of civil society, I feel it is important to highlight the emphasis that Mr&#160;Sifunakis places on the need to involve local people in preparing and implementing policies, some of which are in the report, as follows: a systematic study of the cultural heritage and the creation of a legal framework for its protection; funding to restore local monuments and traditional farming methods; comprehensive restoration of traditional habitats and traditional forms of architecture; and know-how and traditional professions passed down through the generations.
The Commission and the Member States are also called upon to cooperate with the Council of Europe with a view to further promoting traditional communities and the architectural heritage in rural and island areas as part of the 'European Cultural Heritage Days' initiative so as to make the European public more aware of the value of local and regional cultural identities. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the Member States, regions and local authorities that can and must protect natural, architectural and cultural heritage.
We decidedly reject the artificial creation of a common EU cultural heritage at EU level.
The idea of creating a legal framework at EU level for protecting cultural heritage in rural regions is unrealistic.
Paragraph&#160;21 of the draft report proposes systematic action in favour of small, traditional communities along the lines of the cultural capitals system.
Paragraph&#160;24 of the draft report proposes efforts to establish a European Cultural Heritage Year.
To arrange all of these, however, would in practice be impossible.
I am sure that every one of us in this Chamber wants an end to the bloodshed and that we want a peaceful settlement in Sri Lanka.
For some of us, placing the LTTE on the terrorist list has led to a totally predictable reaction and the SLMM is no longer able to operate at full force or as effectively as we would want.
We have already referred to historical matters, and I have certainly spoken recently on the difficulties related to our need to take a stand on the situation of the parties to the conflict.
It is necessary to accept a particular definition as to who in Sri Lanka – and I hesitate to resort to such controversial terms, but here goes – is the original host there, and who is the guest who has become too big for his boots, and whose activity is detrimental to the host.
The Sri Lankan Government has failed to adopt a measured approach to the rebel threat.
As we all know from other terrorist flashpoints in the world, the root causes of any conflict need to be analysed closely.
No longer can we tolerate violence against innocent people, aid agencies, NGOs and monitors in the region.
I therefore congratulate the Sri Lankan Government on the commitment it has made to investigate atrocities and serious human rights violations and to bring the perpetrators to justice.
Of course, the greatest human rights violators are the terrorists.
Successive Sri Lankan Governments have sought to improve the situation of the Tamils and have offered various devolutionary proposals that would give the Tamil population considerable autonomy, while preserving the unity of the country.
In our resolution today, we are calling upon all parties to the conflict and troubles in Sri Lanka to pull back from the brink.
Hopes of further talks have been damaged by the Council proscribing the LTTE as a terrorist organisation on 29 May 2006.
This incident and all the others perpetrated by the LTTE and the government need further investigation by an independent human rights expert.
We must have a strong, effective monitoring operation, but it must have the support of the government, the LTTE, the United Nations and its members. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the cease-fire that has been in place in Sri Lanka since 2002 has been broken on repeated occasions; in mid-June, sixty people were killed in the worst attack so far, for which the government declared the LTTE responsible.
Workers from the French organisation ‘Action against hunger’ dealing with the damage caused by the tsunami were murdered at the beginning of August, and over 100 people were injured, and 61 killed, in the middle of that month – all of them children and young people – in a massacre suspected to have been carried out by the state's security forces.
This year, 2006, reminds me of 2001, when we were with the SARC delegation in Jaffna and saw the results of the civil war, in the shape of ruined villages, scorched earth, and tens of thousands of bewildered and desperate refugees.
The President is willing to allow violations of human rights by the army and police to be investigated, and many people in positions of political responsibility are coming to realise that the Tamil population must be enabled to stop perceiving themselves as second-class citizens.
The situation in Sri Lanka at the moment is tragic, and there have indeed been many breaches of human rights.
That independent body has blamed the LTTE for the attack on 15 June and, as Mrs Lynne has said, it has blamed the Sri Lankan Government for the murder of the 17 aid workers in Muttur at the beginning of August.
What started out as a little local dispute over water supply has cost hundreds of lives, displaced thousands of people and brought the country to the brink of civil war.
All sides – the LTTE, Colonel Karuna and the Sri Lankan Government – must realise that there can be no military solution and that peace negotiations without preconditions are the only way forward.
It is in this spirit that Amendment 5 seeks to keep the negotiations open.
Just because I am saying this, and because Mrs Lynne said something similar, as did Mrs Lambert and Mr Meijer, that does not make us terrorists or apologists for terrorism, which we condemn.
Evidence from the SLMM shows that: Government forces have killed 17 aid workers; the LTTE have bombed a bus, killing 64 civilians; and the Sri Lankan Air Force has bombed a campsite in the north, killing 51 young people.
Let us hope that a political solution that would be acceptable to Sri Lanka’s minority communities will soon be found and that lasting peace and prosperity will replace violence and poverty. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Sinhalese and the Tamils have lived together in Sri Lanka – also known as Ceylon – for over two thousand years.
I do, however, think it regrettable that we are, to some extent, giving ourselves over to inter-group ideological warfare instead of this House coming together to present a united front in dealing with this thorny political issue, which would enable us to carry a great deal more weight in our dealings with the participants in the civil war in Sri Lanka. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in recent weeks violent clashes have again taken place in Sri Lanka between Tamil guerrillas and government forces.
Over 800 people have died as a result of these brutal acts of violence this year alone.
The weak judicial system in Sri Lanka has not reacted to widespread cases of human rights violations, the murder of representatives of humanitarian organisations and the recruitment of child soldiers.
The fact that the burgeoning conflict is hampering economic development by preventing aid from reaching the tsunami victims is particularly worrying.
The act of terror perpetrated by the Tamil Tigers on 15&#160;June is very regrettable, as is the shooting of aid workers in Muturi by government forces.
The frozen conflict there – I refer to the illegal Transnistrian regime – has made Moldova the poorest country in Europe.
The European Union must do all in its power to ensure that talks in Sri Lanka are conducted using words, not bullets.
The Commission has repeatedly called on both parties to make the utmost effort to prevent a further escalation of violence and loss of life.
The Commission and the co-chairs of the Tokyo Donor Conference on Sri Lanka have stated many times that violence is not the way to resolve the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka.
The European Commission is very concerned about the deteriorating human rights situation there.
We share the concerns expressed in the draft resolution in relation to the recent violations and we are concerned about the climate of impunity and non-respect of human rights by both sides.
The Commission has been particularly shocked by the atrocious killing of 17 aid workers from the NGO 'Action Contre la Faim' and has urged the authorities in Sri Lanka to investigate these killings immediately and thoroughly and to give assurances that they will do everything possible to ensure a safe humanitarian space in the country.
A co-chairs' meeting will take place in Brussels on 12 September and the European Commission will take an active part in ensuring that a strong message is put across to both parties, urging them to commit to a peaceful negotiated resolution of the conflict and full respect for human rights. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
Those people who have come to find such living conditions intolerable are in a trap, for the border with South Korea is still permanently closed off.
Returning political refugees, however, exposes them to the worst possible danger.
The problem concerns North Korea, Thailand too of course, obviously ourselves as the European Union, and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
In addition, there are many other cases in which the UN seems hesitant to guarantee or provide assurances that refugee status will be effectively respected, because it is afraid that that might be taken badly by governments or regimes in the area.
The sharp deterioration in standards of living that has ensued and the unbearable repression of its people by the increasingly brutal totalitarian regime have in recent years caused tens of thousands of North Koreans to flee their home country in search of a kinder destiny.
We read of horrors of the past regimes of Pol Pot and Stalin and it haunts me to think that the same situation exists in North Korea today.
Today we are debating the issue of refugees, who are forced by hunger and repression in their own country to take the most difficult decision in a person’s life, which is to flee their homeland, often risking their lives.
We hope that ongoing discussions between Thailand, the South Korean authorities and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees will result in the transfer of these persons to South Korea or another third country in the coming days.
In this context, I would also like to highlight that the situation of the H’mong refugees from Laos living in Thailand is of great concern.
The European Union has an engagement policy with North Korea involving humanitarian aid, some EUR 345&#160;million of European assistance since 1995, and people-to-people contacts and director-level Troika contacts, including on human rights.
A Human Rights resolution was adopted by the United Nations in November 2005.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on Zimbabwe.(1) &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, Zimbabwe is the former Southern Rhodesia.
Zimbabwe’s political and economic fortunes are at their lowest point in its 26-year history as an independent nation.
Action taken by the international community has been at best lukewarm and lacked the commitment necessary to have a real impact on the situation in Zimbabwe.
I see little evidence of diplomatic effort by the EU or by the governments of Member States to close down those international sources of support that keep Mugabe in power.
If the international community is serious about tackling the appalling conditions in Zimbabwe, then the United Nations Security Council should urgently investigate the situation in that country.
President Mugabe has already made it known that every one of these demonstrations will be suppressed.
It is important that we should ensure that these peaceful protests, which highlight the dreadful conditions under which the country’s people live, should be allowed to take place without harassment on the part of the police, and I would point out to the Commissioner that we should give some thought to how we, bearing in mind the structures existing in the region, might manage to send observers to guarantee the right to freely express opinions and to demonstrate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Zimbabwe is an example of how the ugly side of decolonisation can prevail.
We have seen these negative sides of decolonisation in many countries, particularly African countries, where the transfer of power into the hands of irresponsible and evil political forces has resulted in the most unfortunate consequences for states that were supposed to rejoice in their freedom from colonial power.
Instead, their own inhabitants have been condemned to perdition.
I would like to focus in particular, however, on a specific aspect which is also being raised and which furthermore is a topical issue that we often discuss during these urgent debates: freedom of expression.
We must see this concern as a universal one and we must be alert, both with regard to the countries I have mentioned and, for example, with regard to the United States and the European Union itself.
Such an action, facilitated by the opening of positive transitional negotiations between Zanu-PF, MDC parties and other opposition movements will, we feel, bring about the much-needed revival of the society, politics and economy of Zimbabwe and bring peace and prosperity to its people in their traumatic transition from British colonisation to independence and freedom. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, one thing that has remained constant in this House throughout all the years that I have been a Member of it has been the debates on Zimbabwe and its constantly worsening social, economic and political conditions.
The Muramba-tsvina operation has left some 700&#160;000 individuals homeless.
The result is a situation where over 3&#160;000 people are dying every week in that country.
With regard to that I would refer to paragraph 8 of the motion for resolution, suggesting excluding Zimbabwe from the 2010 World Cup.
Exclusion from the 2010 World Cup would underline international disgust with Mr Mugabe’s regime without hurting the people of Zimbabwe, and yet it would be noticed throughout that football-mad country.
Zimbabwe was, after all, an agricultural country at one stage, and one that was among the few south of the Sahara capable of exporting its agricultural produce.
Mugabe, in his madness, has reduced his people to a state of misery.
Four million people in that country are threatened with starvation.
I hope that this time we will go beyond mere words, and I agree with what Mr&#160;Rueda, our Spanish colleague, said recently about not applying double standards.
By all means refer to Zimbabwe, but go further than that because fundamental human rights are also being violated in other countries and we have to constantly avoid such double standards.
What was said confirms our concerns.
At the same time, the Commission is maintaining a very close dialogue with Zimbabwe’s neighbours, particularly the members of the Southern African Development Community and the South African Government.
We support the United Nations initiatives and, in my view, it is very important for respected African Heads of State or Government to put pressure on the Zimbabwe Government to improve the political and humanitarian situation at last and to pave the way for national reconciliation.
In our opinion, direct assistance to the people of Zimbabwe needs to continue in all these areas. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
