The amendment to the Basel Convention banned the export of hazardous wastes from EU and OECD countries, as well as Liechtenstein, to other countries.
Part of this preparation work took the form of a wide-ranging debate by the Environment Council on 23 October, that is to say the day before last, at the end of which the Chairman gave his conclusions on the EU's preparations for the Conference of the Parties to the Basel Convention.
As you know, the ban is already in force in all the EU Member States, because it was implemented in its entirety with the Regulation on movement of waste.
Almost all the EU countries have also ratified the amendment.
The Chairman's conclusions also stressed that developing countries need external help in their endeavours to implement the Basel Convention and manage waste in a way that is environmentally acceptable.
On 25 November 2005 the Commission submitted a communication to the European Parliament and to the Council on the consequences of the judgment passed by the Court of Justice.
The Court's judgment and the Commission's communication were discussed at the informal meeting of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs held in Vienna in January 2006 and they were examined by the Council in Brussels on 21 February this year.
The Commission is closely monitoring developments in C么te d'Ivoire and is in constant contact with the country's authorities.
If we look beyond the incident in C么te d'Ivoire, we shall see that there is a serious vacuum in compliance by the Member States with the European Union regulation on movements of waste.
In 2001, the Commission submitted a proposal for a directive on environmental protection through penal law.
The objective of this proposal was, on the one hand, the introduction throughout the Community of a minimum number of criminal environmental offences and, on the other hand, the punishment of such infringements with effective criminal sanctions in all the Member States.
The proposal was based on Article 175 of the Treaty and was to have been approved under the codecision procedure.
A directive on environmental protection through penal law - within the framework of the first pillar - will provide better environmental protection and, at the same time, is a more democratic method in the legislative procedure.
We examined two options in particular: for the Commission 2001 proposal to stay as it is and for us to call on the other institutions to continue the codecision procedure or for a new Commission proposal to be submitted.
I really do implore you to tell your colleagues that the chairman of the committee is very angry, for complaints after the event are of no avail if we have not done our homework beforehand - which we have, yet you have, so to speak, drawn a line right through it.
It is also worthy of note, by the way, that this is a scandal not only as regards health and the environment, but also in terms of competition.
We would ask you to act on the suggestions that the Commission and this House have made in this matter, for they are good ones.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the Ivory Coast is an unstable country that has been made more unstable by environmental crime which has flowed from our continent down to Africa; with a Dutch ship and Dutch port authorities, a Greek-owned ship flying the Panamanian flag, then Ivorian companies and trucks dumping petrochemicals, killing - according to the United Nations - 12 people, and resulting in 104 000 people - again according to the United Nations - having medical care needs.
That ship unloaded 500 tonnes of chemical waste into trucks which dumped it in 15 separate sites around Abidjan, a city of 5 million people.
If the law is defective, then it must be amended.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (LT) This year, the European Union reviewed the Sustainable Development Strategy, which was adopted in 2001 and enhanced with an external dimension in Barcelona in 2002.
Due to toxic waste pollution in Ivory Coast, 85 000 people suffered ill-health and eight died.
Used computers are stored in Nigeria, radioactive waste in Somalia and chlorine in Cameroon, despite the regulations adopted by the EU in 1994 and 1997 to prohibit the export of waste.
In 2002, this House approved the Directive on the Protection of the Environment through Criminal Law at its first reading.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) It is a tragedy that has struck C么te d'Ivoire, and we all express our sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the criminal behaviour engaged in by European companies.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) My group strongly endorses all that has been said so far, as well as the resolution that draws attention to the toxic waste scandal involving the Proba Koala in Ivory Coast, which has, so far, claimed dozens of lives and as a result of which tens of thousands of people were hospitalised; the implications for the environment and public health are as yet incalculable.
This type of toxin should never have left the European Union in the first pace, and European and international rules have been flouted.
What came to pass in Ivory Coast with the waste from the ship Proba Koala is appalling and should never have happened.
The Commission and Member States would do well to do something about this once and for all. (DE) Mr President, we will soon be getting back several thousand tonnes of contaminated material along with the 500 tonnes illegally dumped in Africa, so that many times the original amount of toxic waste will be finding its way back to Europe, and this is something for which preparations need to be made.
The few citizens who take an interest in our debates will find it very difficult to understand why, this afternoon, we are mixing up a debate on pollution in Ivory Coast with another on a judgment that tramples over the subsidiarity principle.
The fact that the judgment of 13 September 2005 was issued on the subject of an environmental directive does not change the fact that it is actually worded as a judgment on the principle of the communitisation of criminal law.
It is clear that the ship with its contents should never have left Amsterdam without warning the authorities at the next European port, which was in Estonia.
That is why a judicial inquiry is currently underway in the Netherlands, and rightly too, in order to find out how it was possible for the toxic ship to leave the Netherlands in the first place, and whether the port authorities or inspectorates are in any way to blame.
There are a few people in Europe and Africa for whom the criminal trade in toxic waste is a very profitable business.
Knowing though we do, that the actions of this Dutch firm in Abidjan were quite manifestly contrary not only to the Basle Convention but also to EU law, we have to ask ourselves how quickly our European institutions can respond if this is not to happen again in future.
What is really required of the Member States of the European Union is some evidence of their willingness to do something about them. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to express my congratulations on this initiative.
The Council takes a very serious view of illegal movements of waste and the risk which they pose to the immediate environment and people's health.
We should also see, recognise and acknowledge that there are considerable differences in national criminal laws on the environment between the Member States.
Actually, one might say that there is still a lot to do in all the Member States in the area of implementation of these penal provisions and, especially, increasing the likelihood of catching offenders.
I will continue to follow closely all developments in the criminal investigations and proceedings that are currently being conducted in the Netherlands and Estonia regarding the toxic waste dumping in C么te d'Ivoire.
The Commission is also in the process of collecting any information available in other Member States concerning the vessel Proba Koala and its journey.
We know that is so from inspections carried out in Member States by their network of implementation and enforcement agencies, IMPEL.
But legislation that we have adopted to better protect our environment and the health of our citizens will not achieve its objectives if we do not take the necessary measures to ensure that it is properly enforced.
The Commission thinks it is necessary to amend its proposal of 2001 after the Court's ruling, to ensure that all criminal law measures necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the Community's policy for the protection of the environment are included in the proposal.
Finally, as regards the ratification of the Basel Convention, I have sent letters to more than 50 countries around the world asking them to ratify the Convention.
To avoid any wrong conclusions, I should clarify that the Basel ban is mandatory, legally binding, for the European Union Member States, even those that have not ratified the Convention, because we as the European Union have signed and ratified the agreement.
Written statements (Rule 142) The dumping of toxic waste by the Dutch firm Trafigura in the city of Abidjan in the Ivory Coast is a disgrace which requires full investigation and tough action.
In the EU, we must act to ensure that our legislation on toxic waste is such that we can guarantee to people in Africa that their countries will not be dumping grounds for our hazardous waste. (NL) Mr President, the disaster in Ivory Coast calls for a rapid response from Europe, with compensation for the victims and for the damage done to the environment, whereby the polluter pays principle must apply.
After all, over a two-month period, the Proba Koala called at the ports of Gibraltar, Algeciras, Amsterdam, Skagen, Paldiski, Dover and Venkspits.
