EC-Bosnia Herzegovina Stabilisation and Association Agreement - EC-Bosnia Herzegovina Stabilisation and Association Agreement (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Mrs Pack, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part - C6 0255/2008 -; and the Council and Commission Statements - EC-Bosnia and Herzegovina Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I read recently that Bosnia is a well-meaning state, but a state that is not working.
However, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can only function if everyone faces the facts and realises that constitutional reform is only possible with the agreement of all three ethnic groups.
Around 167 ministers and all that entails are the biggest drain on the state.
The people who want to return are unable to do so and, as a result, the ethnic divide is becoming more and more entrenched.
The endless discussion about political reform ruled the political scene for over three years, until agreement was reached on a highly insubstantial bill.
This movement in favour of the European integration of the Balkans was moreover launched on the initiative of the French Presidency, which remains very supportive of this objective.
It follows that the remarkable progress made during the first quarter of 2008 has enabled the Union to take the historic decision to sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The signing of the agreement and the interim agreement, in Luxembourg, on 16 June, was a particularly important stage in the relations between the Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
This should give fresh impetus to the country's efforts to join the European Union.
This is what we and Commissioner Rehn, who is present in this House, said to the country's officials when we met them on the fringe of the United Nations General Assembly and during the meeting of the Troika.
It is extremely important that the momentum of the reforms concerning the rule of law, on compliance with democratic rules and on matters relating to the reform of the police, as well, be much stronger than it is today.
Together with the start of the visa dialogue, it gave a clear signal to the people of that country that their future lies in the European Union.
The lack of a common vision among the country's leaders about its future and the absence of consensus on EU reforms seriously harm its European prospects.
I expressed my serious concern to the Presidency of the country during my visit to Sarajevo a few days ago.
From an EU perspective - as we all know - census data are vital for social and economic planning and development and for most Community policies.
The Commission will offer its assessment on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Progress Report on 5 November.
In other words, as we move into the next phase of our relations, Bosnia and Herzegovina itself must assume full ownership of the reform process that underpins its EU perspective.
The challenge for Bosnia and Herzegovina's leaders is to achieve a degree of political consensus such as has delivered progress on EU integration elsewhere in the Western Balkans region.
The political dialogue in Bosnia does not, however, indicate any interest in achieving this.
Our commitment and the way in which we handle the situation in Bosnia over the next few months and years will be decisive, not only for the future and security of Bosnia but also for the future and security of the region as a whole.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the first comprehensive international agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union.
Here, too, there is a need for cooperation between both entities in order to create a common internal market for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I would like to end by expressing my appreciation for the report of Doris Pack and by calling on the Member States of the EU to ratify this agreement quickly.
In terms of form of government and jurisdiction, a great deal needs to be done in Bosnia.
One is left with the impression that all the problems besetting that country are caused by the outside world and that therefore, all the solutions should come from the outside world.
It is as if the internal ping-pong game that is being played there at different levels and in different dimensions is the fault of the outside world and that we should therefore solve it.
It is not only in our interest to get things back on track in Bosnia and for Bosnia to meet us halfway in its European fate, it is also in Bosnia's interest.
The European Union should feel some guilt and take some of the blame for keeping quiet, taking shameful or inadequate action, or failing to act at all when, in the 1990s, blood was shed in the Balkans, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thousands of people lost their lives.
That is why today we need to help Bosnia and Herzegovina, and make its march towards the Union easier, knowing at the same time that the road to Brussels is an uphill one that is not economically or nationally straightforward.
Anyone who wishes to keep this pocked-sized Yugoslavia together will need federal or confederal solutions in which all three peoples are equivalent and carry their own responsibility for government and for their areas.
A majority rejected these solutions and wishes to stay in Bosnia.
I would ask the Council and Commission how they view Bosnia as a refuge and operating base for radical Muslims in the Balkans and in Europe.
I would appreciate your reaction to this. (NL) Mr President, I believe that we should exercise extreme caution and should reconsider whether it is wise to offer Bosnia and Herzegovina the prospect of EU membership.
It is becoming more and more apparent that the Salafist networks are being developed with financial and logistical support from Saudi Arabia.
Security and stability are vital if the citizens are to put their trust in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The European Union has shown with the Association Agreement that it was and is prepared to help, but the real progress must come from the country itself. (DE) Mr President, firstly I should like to offer my hearty thanks to Mrs Doris Pack for her report and, most of all, for her commitment.
Commissar Rehn has also said that 2009 could be a decisive year for the Balkans.
The preconditions must be created for the country to be able to join the European Union, whereby it goes without saying that only the whole country can join the European Union.
We shall soon see that this country too has the possibility of joining the European Union. (SL) The return of refugees is a matter of crucial importance for all the countries of the Western Balkans, so I offer my sincere support to the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and by Anna Ibrisagic regarding the return of refugees to the Posavina region.
This also applies to the return of refugees from all communities to all other areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I believe that it is essential that young people in the Western Balkans see themselves as Europeans, because it is in a European context that the solution to the future of the area lies.
Nevertheless, I believe that we must keep pointing out to our counterparts in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they personally and their side still needs to do a great deal, even more than is already being done in numerous areas.
Everyone should therefore be delighted with this situation.
True, 2 500 Eurofor soldiers remain in that country.
True, in a country still guided by the fear of political domination by another community, the result of the municipal elections of 5 October is yet another reflection of the domination of the nationalist parties.
I believe that the establishment of a free trade area may be beneficial and may prepare the country with regard to adopting European standards. (LT) Recently I spent some time in Kosovo and I would like to draw your attention to the parallels between the situation in that country and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I should like once again to thank Mrs Pack, who has shown herself to be very active, who has a very sound knowledge of the region, who is also very present on the ground, who has listened the most to what the local leaders have to say - we therefore need her cooperation - and who is involved in bringing about a rapprochement with the European Union, but without any concessions being made in terms of values.
This country - as you emphasised - is at a crossroads and caught up in controversy with regard to relations between the central State and the bodies and with regard to the path that will lead to the European Union, as I said.
The deadline for the municipal elections of 5 October having lapsed, the European Union must henceforth apply pressure so that Bosnia and Herzegovina focuses on its European agenda.
Looking to the future, we shall be careful to prevent any suggestion that the European Union has abandoned Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Union will have to re-engineer this operation, and the foreign affairs ministers will have to debate it at the Council of 10 November.
The fact that, in Serbia, we have for the first time a government that is committed to forming closer links with the European Union and that, with the arrest of Mr Karadzic, has pledged its commitment, is an entirely positive element and one that must be commended.
It is clear that we can be proud of being Europeans, proud of what the Commission and the other institutions are doing to help Bosnia and Herzegovina on the only route with any substance, that is to say the route to rapprochement, in line with the values, with the European Union!
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, firstly I would like to thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate on the political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
From the Commission side, I can say that we envisage constitutional evolution rather than revolution, which can be done and should be done in respect of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement.
The Commission does not have a blueprint for a certain kind of constitutional reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina but, at the same time, we are certainly stakeholders as the European Union.
We cannot do this for them, but we can make the point to the citizens and leaders of the country that we want and expect them to succeed and we support them in this interval.
The Commission, and I, will therefore continue to work with the presidency, with Javier Solana, with the European Parliament and all other partners and stakeholders to reinforce our engagement so that next year, 2009, could still, after all, be a year for the Western Balkans, and also a year for Bosnia and Herzegovina to make progress towards the European Union.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I should like to say to our fellow Member, who is no longer here, and perhaps also to Mr Belder, that we should be cautious here: we should not localise the terrorist threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which lies in the middle of the European Union, is also our stability.
The vote will take place on Thursday 23 October 2008.
in writing. - I welcome the recent signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The war in Bosnia destroyed more than 75% of the country, caused the death of more than 200 000 people and resulted in 1.8 million refugees.
