Mobile satellite services (MSS) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Hall, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services - C6-0257/2007 -.
I am therefore very grateful for the efforts made by the rapporteur, Mrs Hall and for those made by all the other colleagues in the European Parliament to promote consensus in Parliament and in the Council within what remains a very short time-frame.
In February 2007, Member States agreed to make radio frequency bands in the 2 GHz region available for a harmonised approach to mobile satellite services in order to avoid interference and fragmentation of the internal market and open up the possibility for European MSS technology to become globally competitive.
To conclude, I think we have reached a very good and swift agreement which will benefit both citizens and industry.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (DE) Mr President, I too, would first like to thank Mrs Hall for her extremely ambitious efforts to achieve a timely result for this difficult report.
The ambitious plan to launch a satellite system for the Galileo navigation satellite system is sufficient proof of this.
All satellite-based systems should use in communications the same radio spectrum from 1980 to 2010 MHz and 2170 to 2200 MHz.
In our opinion, the proposed solution will lead to much better development of the technical and economic communication elements.
The entire GUE/NGL Group supports this resolution. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying how proud I am of the work we are doing in the European Parliament on the report under debate.
Thanks to their contribution and effective cooperation with the Council, we have arrived at a distinctly improved motion for a resolution. (PL) Mr President, the objective of the European Commission's decision that Parliament is assessing is to put forward harmonised principles for access to mobile satellite services in all Member States.
Otherwise, I would simply like to thank everybody for their comments in this debate and to say once again that this would not have been possible if it had not been for the extremely good level of cooperation between everybody who has been involved in negotiating this decision.
