In this way, if some Member States have decided to introduce road tolls they should not then introduce an additional pollution tax later on.
In conclusion, we need an integrated strategy for developing European transport which protects the environment, but without internalisation of external costs affecting the competitiveness of road transport.
I also agree with Mrs Wortmann-Kool when she says that here, too, we must pay particular attention to the internal market.
However, to my mind, this compromise does take us a step in that direction.
In my view, this would be very important in resolving the problem.
Sometimes it seems as though politicians are more interested in the calculation models themselves than the results that can be obtained using them.
The proposals by rapporteur Mr El Khadraoui provide scope for this, and therefore have the support of my group.
I do take the view, though, that Member States must retain the scope to vary the costs.
We cannot allow Member States to introduce a kind of punitive tax.
I should also like to take this opportunity to request support for my Amendment 76.
When it comes to freight transport in Europe it is probably right to say that we must rank these three priorities differently, according to reverse alphabetical order, no less.
There is also a need to see a more balanced road sector that is not only economically sustainable, but also environmentally sustainable, and one that recognises that it has to pay a fair price for the costs it creates - be these environmental or infrastructure costs.
And Commissioner, I would not worry too much about disagreeing with Georg Jarzembowski - we in the Socialist Group have been doing that successfully for years. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time I have had occasion to deal with this subject.
Unfortunately, the committee decision, as it currently stands, links the introduction of congestion costs for goods vehicles to the inclusion of other modes of transport, such as passenger cars.
I hope that we will receive the necessary majority to achieve that breakthrough. (NL) Mr President, the only reason - at least the way I see it - to look seriously at this proposal at all is that it creates a European framework for Member States to work within, which ultimately benefits the internal market.
Let me be clear that, as far as I am concerned, the possibility of a congestion charge for road freight transport is inadmissible, and I also consider the abandonment of earmarking unacceptable.
We need regulation that is much tougher than what the Commission and the majority of this House have proposed. (PT) Mr President, the revision of the Eurovignette Directive should have been used to encourage more sustainable and environmentally-friendly road transport.
If that were the case, the road haulage sector would be the first to call for this instrument, because that is the group that already pays for the delays caused by urban traffic jams.
Excluding CO2 from the Eurovignette would be particularly unfair given that all Member States now have binding CO2 reduction targets to meet under the effort-sharing decision.
If the rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group believes that they have lost a battle here, I would say to her that I hope they lose many such battles, as that would be good for the vast majority of people in Europe. (BG) The report on road tolls contains suggestions which will make transport in the European Union significantly more expensive, especially over long distances and when using carriers from periphery countries of the EU, like Bulgaria.
Taking into account these conditions, I firmly support proposals 71 and 72 which recommend a 'congestion' factor should not be included in the directive.
Internalising external costs for pollution and noise is a positive measure.
As regards introducing a charge on those using the infrastructure to help solve the problem of congestion, I believe that this proposal should be examined in more depth, bearing in mind that congestion does not depend exclusively on cars, but more significantly on Member States' ability to plan and implement efficiently national infrastructures at regional and local level.
We need to carry on as we have been for a number of years in encouraging this mobility in the European Union, and we need to ensure that there is fair competition between the various modes of transport.
More to the point, I would like to stress that it is road transport that is currently keeping Europe up and running.
The European Commission has decided to approach the internalisation of the external costs of road transport by charging for three new costs: air pollution, noise pollution and congestion.
I also opposed the application of charges generated just by the congestion of a few, which is a measure that will lead to unfair advantage and which fails to penalise those who pollute most.
The subsidiarity principle, as expressed in the proposal, allows the Member States to decide for themselves whether they want to internalise these external costs.
That is the only way in which, in the long term, we can create a system that is truly sustainable and that satisfies the concerns of the population.
Moreover, when it landed in the office of our co-legislator, it had quite a different nature, because oil was at USD 57 a barrel.
I would say that I am very pleased with it on behalf of my own country because it will make it possible to obtain a contribution to the infrastructure of a transit country such as France from heavy goods transporters that currently go through the country without buying a drop of petrol and without spending a cent.
I therefore think that this will be a beneficial text. (RO) The Commission's desire to charge transport operators not only for the right to use the infrastructure, but also for the impact on the environment, known as internalisation of external costs, will impose a tax burden with severe repercussions for these companies, especially in the current economic crisis.
The internalisation of external transport costs is, in the long run, a measure which may help to make transport greener.
We cannot ask transport companies to pay sums of money that have been arbitrarily set for external costs, all the more so as we are talking about significant sums. (DE) Mr President, I wanted to speak again because a number of my fellow Members have spoken about the jobs issue in perhaps somewhat sanctimonious terms.
I believe that the text that will be sent to the Council will certainly undergo amendments because people do not see eye to eye within the Council either.
It is true to say that we are in the midst of a crisis but it is also true that the proposal is for the measure to be applied from 2012.
I certainly hope - and I am absolutely sure I am right to say - that the crisis will be well and truly over by 2012.
I can tell you to the nearest cent what the impact would be in the most extreme case: congestion would be 65 euro cents per kilometre at the absolute maximum: 65 euro cents in very heavily congested areas, and only for the few kilometres where there was congestion, not the rest of the journey.
Air pollution would be a further 16 euro cents in the case of the most polluting lorries.
For the rest of the route, the 65 euro cents can be deducted.
This is enshrined in principle 4 of the Treaty on the freedom of the internal market.
