We will include this in the Minutes, Mr MacCormick. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, I only wanted to report my presence for the Minutes.
Mrs Buitenweg, you cannot request this on your own.
Such a request must be made by at least 32 Members.
I notice that more than 32 Members have made this request.
You will undoubtedly know that there is a quorum if one third of the MEPs are present in the Chamber. (The number of Members present was counted) I note that there is no quorum and that the vote on the Pesälä report will therefore take place in the next part-session.
Report by Mr Maat (A5-0074/200), on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999 on the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products [COM(1999) 608 - C5-0047/2000 - 1999/0246(CNS)] Mr President, I am pleased to say that I, together with a number of other colleagues from my Group, fully back the initiative which Mrs Buitenweg has taken.
If this is not the case, Mr President, I would ask you to check the quorum before we proceed to vote on the Maat report. (More than 32 Members rose in support of this request) (The President established that there was not a quorum) Mr President, I have been trying to catch your eye for a while now.
I would ask the Members who this morning requested that the vote be postponed in the absence of a quorum to consider the following: if you want to reform the Rules of Procedure, which are indispensable in this House, if you want to improve our working practice, you cannot achieve this through impulsive actions; instead you must initiate a full debate on reform of the House.
The delegates who are here this morning, who have done their work, who spent yesterday evening preparing for the work to be carried out today, are being punished here today, by a spontaneous action, for the fact that not everyone in Parliament has done their homework.
Mr Bourlanges, I can perhaps put your mind at rest by informing you that I will, of course, refer this morning' s matter to the Bureau.
Mr President, since there will no doubt be another quorum vote, I would like to remind the President and the Members of this Parliament that, during a quorum vote, it is not permitted to leave the chamber.
Mr President, I think it is genuinely important.
Mrs Van der Laan, I understand that you would like the quorum to be checked.
We need to check whether there are 32 Members who wish to support you. (More than 32 Members rose in support of this request) (The President established that there was no quorum) Mr President, irrespective of whether this action was spontaneous or premeditated, it is still an act of sabotage by the anti-Strasbourg lobby.
I do, however, consider that it is not right to criticise those who use an instrument which was adopted by democratic vote, such as the Rules of Procedure, for purposes which all may not support, but which are nevertheless permitted by the rules which we have established for ourselves.
I would ask, rather, why it is that many Members voted in favour of working on Fridays in Strasbourg and yet are not in Strasbourg today.
Please do not ask me to name any particular Member, but I guarantee that some of the 32 members who voted in favour of the request for a quorum are no longer here.
Therefore, some of the 32 Members have violated the Rules of Procedure.
I would much rather that the Commission' s office in Copenhagen was a little more accessible.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Andreasen for his question since it gives me the opportunity to express the extent to which I share his views, as, indeed, I emphasised during my hearing before this House last September.
It is true that we have all, not just the Commission, but also Parliament and the Member States, made many mistakes in our information policy in the past.
We must all, not just the Commission in isolation but the Commission in collaboration with the Member States and with Parliament, proceed to examine the matter in depth and develop a new information policy.
Moreover, let me tell you quite explicitly that I have taken careful note of the problems which exist.
Obviously, the new information policy which we are going to be implementing will have to optimise the use of all the information and communication possibilities which this new technology makes available to us.
We have once again started to work within an interinstitutional working party on 'information' , in which Parliament is represented, and as part of this work, which is a tripartite effort involving the national states, the European Parliament and the Commission, I plan to present a communication to you in the near future outlining a new approach which I shall first present to the Commission, some time before the summer, and which I shall then discuss with you.
I also think we must all clarify our respective roles.
She has a really tough task on her hands but I am sure that she will get the full support that she recognises that she needs from the European Parliament.
The information deficit is actually more serious than the democratic deficit that we often talk about.
In the recent past, we have had the Oostlander report in 1993 and the famous Pex report in 1998.
This week I had a visitors' group from the Winchester Probus Club, mainly retired people and, in general terms, well informed about world affairs.
Finally, I have to address the problem of Parliament in Strasbourg.
You have mentioned two aspects which I would like to stress: the regional dimension and efficiency.
In your review of information policy, I would ask you to bear in mind the experience of certain Member States.
That government' s decision was to commission an information campaign on the euro from a very important advertising agency.
The Commission has long had an office there.
I am sorry to say that this week it has been announced that The Scotsman newspaper is closing down the office of its Brussels and European correspondent.
I am glad that the Commission and Parliament have helped to make information available in Scotland and I wish our own media would do likewise.
We, and I say that very clearly, the institutions of the European Union, the European Parliament and the delegates cannot bear sole responsibility for providing information on Europe.
Without the support of the Member States, without the support of the public representatives at borough, county and national level, without the support of all the institutions, we will not get directly to the citizen, because either we are here doing our work or we are involved in communication and information processes with our citizens.
Commissioner, I am waiting for your master plan, your schedule, your specific measures for implementation.
Mr Perry has addressed three specific points.
I know about this problem.
On 3 April we launched the new access facility - Europe direct.
In any event it is important for all actors, including Members of the European Parliament, to intervene with the media so that they enhance their reporting about Europe.
I would like to make it quite clear, once again, that the provision of information to citizens is not the exclusive responsibility of the Commission.
That is also one of the focuses of the new information policy which I would like to introduce in the future.
This is probably the first time I have heard delegates referred to as soldiers, but we know what role we are playing here.
Yesterday, there was a question from Mr MacCormick on the postponement of the vote on the COM for bananas.
Had we voted in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we would no longer have been involved.
I did want to point this out because Parliament should not be mistaken for a kindergarten, and this is the feeling I will have when I leave this Chamber today.
Mr President, our action is not finished.
I would really like to know what kind of nonsense this is?
Night flights and excessive noise The next item is the oral question to the Commission (B5-0206/2000) by Mr Lannoye, Mrs Auroi, Mr Bouwman, Mr Bowe, Mrs Cerdeira Morterero, Mrs Corbey, Mr Costa Paolo, Mr Deprez, Mr Desama, Mrs González Álvarez, Mrs Guy-Quint, Mr Izquierdo Collado, Mr Jonckheer, Mrs Korhola, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, Mrs Lienemann, Mrs Lucas, Mrs McKenna, Mrs Maes, Mr Martínez Martínez, Mr Papayannakis, Mrs Patrie, Mr Arvidsson, Mr Puerta, Mr Ries, Mr Rod, Mr de Roo, Mrs Sandbæk, Mrs Schroedter, Mrs Sornosa Martínez, Mr Staes, Mr Sterckx, Mrs Terrón i Cusí, Mrs Van Brempt, Mr Vander Taelen, Mrs Van Lancker and Mr Ducarme, regarding night flights and noise pollution around airports.
Standards were last established by the International Civil Aviation Organisation in 1977.
Therefore, there has been no progress in this area for 23 years, and it is clear that aircraft replacement policies are not in any way motivated by the introduction of more stringent standards, to the extent that our aircraft are extremely outdated.
The recent Commission communication on air transport and the environment defines a noise reduction strategy based both on economic factors, such as improving air traffic control and airport access, and on fostering progress in technology.
This is a good strategy which will limit the increase in noise pollution, but in my opinion and, I would argue, the opinion of a good number of Members, it will not allow us, in the short term, to reach our objective which is that nobody is exposed to dangerously or uncomfortably high noise levels.
Faced with this situation, a number of countries and regions have taken steps to restrict access to airports at night.
I also feel that the organisation of night air transport activities, which are inevitably going to be noisy whatever the level of technology employed, is certainly something which must be restricted and coordinated.
I made no contribution to this morning' s debate and, with your permission, I would like to say a few words now regarding the vote.
Personally, I would prefer a vote in which a large number of Members take part to a vote which takes place at noon on Friday in which only thirty or forty Members participate.
I took part in this morning' s action and I did not appreciate criticism from Members who interpreted it as an anti-Strasbourg manoeuvre.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Lannoye for this initiative and for launching the debate in this Chamber on this very important matter.
As pointed out in this communication, the Commission does not see how uniform and restrictive rules governing restrictions on use, which would apply to all Community airports, as would be the case, for example, for the general ban on night flights, could provide the most balanced solution to the issue of noise pollution attributable to certain airports.
However, it also considers that a common framework is necessary to coordinate the procedures adopted in order to reach these decisions so that when a region decides to ban night flights, for example, it does so in the same way as a similar region somewhere else.
I would also like to touch on the subject of hushkits.
The vote will take place after the debate.
Mr President, noise pollution caused by aircraft is a very topical issue.
The noise pollution at Zaventem has exceeded the permitted levels for a long time.
In a recent communication from the Commission on air transport and the environment, an initial strategy has already been outlined.
Mr President, Commissioner, for some time the populations living close to Barajas Airport in Madrid have protested every time there has been an extension of the airport, for various reasons, but mainly because of noise pollution.
I know that in the last two months the Government of Madrid has proposed a reduction in night flights, after 11.00 p.m., but I also know that the measures that have been taken have not had any significant effect on the quality of life of the population.
From the joint motion for a resolution, I would like to highlight some of the proposals - please excuse any repetition - which I believe the European Commission should take note of if it wants to reduce noise pollution: a global and integrated framework for reducing noise pollution which should lead to a framework directive with concrete and binding measures; the uniform application of those measures in all Member States so that there are no distortions; a Community framework for the classification of noise which will allow measures to be taken with the rigorous allocation of slots and a reduction in flights; and progress towards the establishment of a common air space, which is not in conflict with local and regional measures.
In truth, Mr President, if everybody disliked aircraft as much as I do and travelled by rail as much as I do, perhaps we would have fewer problems.
First of all, I must say that many of the problems are the result of bad planning or no planning at all.
Local authority involvement is therefore important, although, I must stress, it needs to be within a general European legislative framework.
Mr President, noise pollution caused by aircraft is mainly a problem to those living near airports.
I also back the other proposals to reduce noise pollution.
Mr President, Commissioner, your comments this morning on both subjects showed that we need not only rapid data highways, but also efficient air transport in Europe to remain competitive.
The airports of Liège and Maastricht are within a radius of almost 200 km.
Businesses, such as DHL, will then simply move to airports in other Member States.
The much publicised and promised common framework for noise classification of aircraft could not be here soon enough, Commissioner, especially given the Russian situation.
A general ban on night flights would therefore seriously disrupt air transport activities.
Most large airports place restrictions on the use of the noisiest types of aircraft or employ economic instruments in order to limit their use.
Pages 34 and 35 of the communication on air transport and the environment contain an action plan setting forth a precise schedule.
I would, however, like to request that the vote be deferred, if only out of a desire for consistency with this morning' s events, and also because it would be fitting for a resolution as important as this to be voted in by more than 40 or 50 Members.
Mr Lannoye, I understand that you are moving that the vote be adjourned.
Mr President, I am, of course, making this request on behalf of my Group.
In this case, Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure applies.
Mr President, I would like to back Mr Lannoye' s motion.
This seems to me to be in the interest of the good Rules of this House.
Mr Posselt, you are absolutely right.
Mr Meijer, I would thank you and other Members for their creativity in coming up with solutions to this problem.
Mr President, I welcome this point of order, for foresters and the forestry sector cannot wait for the outcome of these rather irregular debates which can only have one effect today, and that is to send out a message proclaiming that the European Parliament is made up of absentee Members, whereas most of our fellow Members, including those here today, are certainly not relaxing in front of their televisions but are working in the field.
As it happens, we already expressed our sympathy, as we are wont to do, in a resolution of 20 January 2000, and requested that the Commission supply us with certain information and undertake to help those of our citizens - and they were numerous - who were in difficulties, for this disaster affected the whole of Europe.
We are not asking you to include timber in that policy, but it appears that Europe could have employed equivalent measures to assist the timber market during this exceptional crisis.
These are not virtual instruments.
May I refer you to Mr Barnier' s speeches at the plenary sitting of 18 January 2000, when he stressed that the Commission would willingly employ every available means to assist the Member States.
Nevertheless, with regard to forest damage, I must also remind you that the European Parliament, notably in its resolution of 31 January 1997 on the forestry strategy of the European Union, and also the Council of the European Union, have repeatedly stressed that the Treaty does not lay down any specific competence for a Union forestry policy.
It is therefore, first and foremost, national aid to the timber industry which is the most appropriate means, at national, regional or local level, of supporting the worst affected forestry sites in the industry, and the Member States have to decide on the procedures for providing this aid.
The aid programmes notified by the French Government do, in fact, contain a general measure supporting the windfall transportation which may result in some of the timber being transported to countries outside the Union.
With regard to the joint financing of aid programmes proposed by Member States under Article 30 of Regulation EC/1257/99 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF), I would further stress that the Commission is prepared to be extremely flexible.
In the meantime, two Member States, including France, have presented their adapted programmes, which now include a substantial section on bolstering the forestry industry following the storms at the end of 1999.
The vote will take place after the debate.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the way you handled the debate this morning.
But Commissioner, I would also like, and I feel that this is essential, the institutions of the European Union to bear witness to the solidarity which unites the Member States, in particular in the event of exceptional disasters such as the storms of 26 December last which caused such unprecedented damage to a number of forest regions in France, Germany and Austria.
It is therefore essential to be able to draw on the Structural Funds to finance special measures for forests and the timber industry in the case of disasters in objective 2 or former objective 5b areas.
The European Union must take full responsibility for its citizens.
Commissioner, when you say that national aid is the important thing now, then I would say to you that this also means that, in this instance, you do not want to organise the common European market.
Mr Barnier was very emphatic in his speech, assuring us that the European Union was, in effect, going to do something to help the victims.
And, in this regard, may I say that the European Union' s policy consists of robbing Peter to pay Paul.
Mr President, the document on the difficulties faced by the forestry sector following the storms in December 1999 only refers to the damage caused to the wooded areas in order to better illustrate the price drops in the timber sector and the implications for foresters and timber exporters.
For my part, I would like to speak up on behalf of forestry workers, who receive no mention at all, even though it is their efforts which are keeping the timber sector going.
They are demanding to be able to retire at 55 and calling for an improvement in their working conditions, which are still antiquated and result in the physical deterioration and sometimes death of a number of workers each year.
We support these legitimate claims.
I support the Community initiatives in favour of the tropical forests, but I am astounded that there is not the same enthusiasm to come to the aid of our own devastated forests.
In Baden-Württemberg alone the accumulation of storm wood runs to about 25 million solid cubic metres.
Just the cost of remedying the damage in Baden-Württemberg, the area for which I can speak as the delegate, runs to about DM 1.5 billion, of which DM 300 million are needed simply for reforestation.
I have seen how the hurricane took the roof off our stable and I have seen the state our private woods are in.
He indicated, as you have today, Commissioner, that you are willing to give consideration to, to help ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the natural disaster which overtook European countries was tragic.
Moreover, the same applies within the framework of Regulation 1257/99.
Commissioner, you have been extremely active this morning.
Joint motion for a resolution replacing the resolutions on the economic effects of the recent storms on the forestry sector in Europe (Parliament adopted the resolution) Declarations of vote and other declarations Mr President, I voted in favour of this resolution and I am glad that those behind the sabotage which, from 9 o' clock this morning, prevented us from carrying out our work properly and voting are no longer present to turn this Parliament into an undignified circus.
I was a Member of this Parliament 35 years ago and in all my time I have never seen such abuse of the Rules.
In the interest of forest owners, including in my own State where, to be fair, the last storm disaster was not as devastating as here, for example, in Alsace, I hope that measures will be taken by the EU, as proposed here, in order, above all, to prevent small and medium-sized enterprises going under .... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I would very quickly like to go back to the events which took place during the explanation of votes or during the point of order this morning.
I am very new to this Parliament and I would just like to express my deep disappointment at the incident.
On behalf of this Parliament, I would like to apologise to the people of Ethiopia, to the men, women and children who are suffering in a tragic situation and in relation to whom Parliament was prevented from adopting a position this morning.
We were able to vote on the last two items, which were also urgent, but, in all honesty, I would have preferred to have voted for the people of Ethiopia and to have lent them the support of this Parliament.
Mr President, I would like to support what Mr Daul has just said.
I notice that, today, we are concluding this sitting with approximately fewer than 40 Members here to make decisions.
But I am one of the people who took the initiative and I am still here, just as I am here every Friday.
Nor can I fail to mention the fact, which has already been referred to here, that the saboteurs of this morning' s sitting did not take part in the vote, and I am delighted that the PPE has suggested a nominal vote, which will clarify the matter.
However, I am of the opinion that those who wish to ensure that the work of Parliament continues to be carried out should also be present.
They are no less valid because only a few delegates participated.
Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the President of this eventful sitting, the Members present and Mrs Reding.
The subject of the forestry sector is now open to debate, and we must take up the issue of natural disasters as well, for we cannot endeavour to draw closer to our citizens and then explain to them that we are unable to help them when they are in trouble, while, at the same time, we are sending task forces abroad.
I would like to express my support for the comments of Mr Daul, who worked together with Evelyne Gebhardt to draft this resolution on the timber industry, and to express my regret and shock at the fact that we have exploited the plight of the people of Ethiopia to further our petty games.
Mr President, I, too, regret the actions which prevented this House from working this morning.
I have been in this House for 21 years in all, although only 6 of those as a parliamentarian.
I have taken part in every Friday session for 21 years, even when I had another job and was not a delegate.
However, irrespective of that, I would like to say that I have repeatedly seen such attempts over these 21 years.
