The flexicurity debate also shows that we cannot use low wages and poor working conditions to compete with countries outside the EU.
A better exchange of information is needed between the authorities in the various Member States.
The next issue is that of social documentation.
The requirement for a representative is important, as is the demand for social documentation.
There are countries that do not have sufficient controls in place, which means that employees perhaps work in conditions that do not comply with the requirements of the Posting of Workers Directive.
The Commission acknowledges that national bodies must carry out appropriate checks in order to ensure that service providers comply with national working conditions.
Nevertheless, assessments of the progress made since 2006, which the Commission carried out on the basis of information from the Member States and the social partners at EU level, indicate that some measures implemented in some Member States are disproportionate and overstep the mark in terms of what is needed in order to guarantee effective protection for posted workers.
The Commission is therefore proposing to enhance and strengthen administrative cooperation with the Member States, above all to bring together other interested parties - in particular the social partners - that play an important role in monitoring compliance with the rules.
Lastly, I should like to stress that the June 2007 communication demonstrates that, as a matter of principle, the Commission does not in any way wish to undermine the various social models of the Member States nor the way in which Member States organise their systems of labour law relations and collective bargaining.
The final thing I would just say is certainly from this side of the House.
Until this aspect has been addressed, a crucial instrument to enforce compliance with the Posting of Workers Directive will be lacking.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, I wish, on behalf of my group, to support the approach chosen by the Commission in connection with this directive, namely that of putting its faith in the provision of better information and in enhanced cooperation between Member States and, in cases of serious infringement, in taking Member States to the European Court of Justice.
The Commission has observed that the Member States do not always have confidence in the information exchanged between countries, and I therefore think it a good idea now to strengthen the ongoing cooperation between the Member States in this area.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the present debate is also a warning: if this communication is yet another attempt to smuggle the deleted Articles 24 and 25 of the original Services Directive through the back door, then this House will unambiguously reject it.
Equal pay for equal work in the same place must be the overriding principle.
This leaves many workers exposed, without the minimum standards necessary to avoid exploitation and abuse. (DE) Madam President, On 13 June the DG Employment notified the Commission that some Member States are not implementing the Posting of Workers Directive conscientiously, Germany included.
The place of work could also be an address.
It is with such practices that we put ourselves on the road towards a social Europe, a united Europe, a Europe of workers that we all wish for. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, when we were discussing the services directive, we stated quite clearly and definitely that it should in no way affect social rights in Member States.
As regards amending the directive, which has been suggested, I should like to say that Parliament has itself addressed this issue at least twice or three times before, as have the social partners, and no overriding position was formulated whereby the directive could be recast in a substantive way.
At the moment, neither the preliminary political debate in Parliament nor the debate with the social partners suggests that it would be right to take any new legislative action in this field.
The Court of Justice in Luxembourg has the authority to settle such disputes between European institutions.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 11 July 2007.
