Draft general budget 2008 as modified by the Council (all sections) (debate) The next item is the report by Kyösti Virrankoski and Ville Itälä, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2008, amended by the Council (all sections) and on Letters of Amendment No 1/2008 (13659/2007 - C6-0341/2007) and No 2/2008 (15716/2007 - C6-0435/2007) to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2008.
rapporteur. - Mr President, as rapporteur I would like to warmly thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Böge.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, the grand total for the European Union's budget for next year is EUR 129 149 700 000 for commitments and EUR 120 346 800 000 for payment appropriations.
Parliament did much to promote financing for the two-year project for the Galileo Positioning System and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
A choice had to be made in this budgetary procedure: either to continue with all the resources needed or end it immediately.
For the funds needed we took EUR 1.6 billion from this year's unused agriculture expenditure, and EUR 200 million from the flexibility instrument, and the rest we obtained by prioritising and reallocating expenditure from heading 1a.
Rescuing the Galileo project was a huge victory for Parliament in this budgetary procedure.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be taking part in your debate on the second reading of the budget for the year 2008.
This agreement had two different but equally important objectives: firstly, to define the framework for establishing the budget for 2008 in order to allow the European Union to function properly and its policies to be correctly implemented; secondly, to ensure the financing of Galileo, one of the most important projects undertaken by the European Union in recent years on a political, industrial and financial level.
In this context, please allow me to express my great pride at the leadership role played jointly by the European Parliament and the Council, as budgetary authority, with the support of the Commission, in the overall agreement reached on the Galileo project.
Also, I believe that the budget for 2008 as a whole represents a balanced compromise between, on the one hand, the need to ensure the necessary budgetary discipline and solid financial management and, on the other hand, our duty to meet the expectations of European citizens.
Please allow me to add that this satisfactory result was only possible thanks to the synergy between the efforts of all those involved and the excellent and constructive climate which, in our opinion, characterised this whole process from the start.
I also want to express my gratitude to my colleagues on the 'Budget' Council, and to all those who cooperated with them, for the firm support that they gave the Presidency.
This is a new, historic quality of the EU budget and it reflects the EU's political priorities - competitiveness, economic growth, cohesion and social harmony.
A significant element in negotiations on the 2008 budget was the need to make a decision on two innovative trans-European projects - the GALILEO project and the development of the European Institute of Technology.
One reserve reduces by EUR 17 million the preparation for staff salaries at headquarters in the policy area of external actions, and that would force the Commission to leave posts vacant and to block recruitment from the beginning of January.
This means, in fact, that there would be EUR 22 million in the combined reserve on staff salaries, and I really hope that Parliament will be able to reconsider its position on this in the plenary session.
As regards the general reserve for EUR 5 million on staff salaries, the Commission is firmly committed to delivering the required study on the ABM implementation and the reports requested by Parliament on the follow-up or the screening exercise and on the implementation of Article 44 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
I welcome the fact that it represents 0.96% GNI and I am also happy to see that the funding for Frontex is much more appropriate to the challenge that this organisation faces.
I have to say that, after 13 failures, this is something which must be taken very seriously.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, the EU's general budget reflects the serious tendencies of economies marked by current financial prospects.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe I would also like to highlight the excellent negotiation result that we can celebrate in connection with the adoption of the 2008 budget on Thursday.
Extra money has also been found for Palestine and Kosovo through use of the flexibility instrument.
This does not necessarily mean a more expensive budget, but a more rigid implementation of the rules and a focus on relevant problems.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, we are today discussing the draft 2008 European Union budget for the last time.
I am afraid that through no fault of its own, the part of the European budget dealing with agriculture unfortunately offers a distorting mirror. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this is a fine draft budget, and we all ought to congratulate ourselves on it.
Nor should we forget that the budget is a political act in itself. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary procedure for 2008 has shown how far the European Parliament can progress in negotiations with the Council if we are determined to implement our ideas for a European policy.
As a result, we shall be able to fund Galileo and the European Institute of Technology properly until 2013.
In 2008 an appropriation of EUR 285 million will be made to the common foreign and security policy.
While this is EUR 125 million more than the 2007 allocation, we are all well aware that heading 4 will remain chronically underfunded until the end of the period covered by the financial perspective.
The main concern I and many of my colleagues had in relation to the 2008 budget was ensuring full Community financing for the launch of the Galileo project, and consequently the European Technology Institute, without jeopardising the funding for programmes aimed at implementing the Lisbon Strategy.
I should like to remind the House that in the financial perspective 2007-2013 the ceiling for commitment appropriations for 2008 was set at 1.08% of gross national income.
There is therefore a significant difference between what the European Union was prepared to finance only two years ago, and what it is now prepared to finance.
I welcome the fact that the conciliation procedure resulted in an agreement on financing the Galileo programme and the European Institute of Technology.
In the case of officials, the total volume of annual payments now stands at EUR 963 million, to which these officials themselves contribute no more than a third.
We have a budget that safeguards the foundations of the strategic Galileo project until 2013 in the first instance, and the secret lay in a mix of revision, flexibility and reallocation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our rapporteurs as well as all the teams from the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament.
We were in fact fully aware that the contributions by the Member States would not be enough to take up the major challenges facing an EU comprising 27 nations and, notably, half a billion citizens.
This 2008 budget is in fact a victory for Europeans and for the House, and I also wish to express my most sincere thanks to our general rapporteur and his entire team for their difficult negotiations, and also of course to Chairman Böge and the COBU Members and administrative staff.
Finally, as a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, like my colleagues I welcome the payments secured for Galileo, which is a major crucial project that will enable Europe to retain and even improve its ranking as a space power and guarantee us independence from other countries.
I think that we should adhere to the Treaty and to the multiannual budget, but that also applies to the Council, especially as regards the point in Article 44 on the presentation of country statements concerning sound financial management.
Perhaps the Council could also give that some attention. (PL) Mr President, in terms of both structure and size, the 2008 budget indicates that we are still at the early stages of introduction of new generation multiannual programmes linked to the financial perspective 2007-2013.
Conciliation was extremely successful, and was indeed a joint success for the three participating institutions.
On behalf of the European Parliament, I hereby undertake that we will draw conclusions from this experience for future meetings of this nature in 2008. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, allow me to begin by paying a compliment to the President of the Council.
We know that the Commission itself has doubts as to whether it actually needs to have 1 700 employees assigned to communication or 3 500 to document management or 1 700 in the personnel directorate.
This issue must remain on the agenda, and it will remain on the agenda, with or without the reserve, with or without paragraph 11 of our resolution and even with or without the fulfilment of prior conditions.
President, the European Union budget for the year 2008 is a pragmatic one, of results, guided by the current development priorities of the European Union.
All through the budgetary procedure, the European Parliament used its prerogative of control over the other institutions for promoting the main objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, economic competitiveness and employment.
For this reason, I thank you for supporting the amendment regarding the significant increase of the budget in this field for the next year. (EL) Mr President, this year's budget is resounding proof that the Community method works.
I believe that for a politician who speaks through her work, there can be no better memorial. - (MT) Thank you, Mr President.
As regards sea-based missions, it gives us great satisfaction to see that Frontex's activity will increase substantially on maritime borders, especially in the centre of the Mediterranean, but also in the Eastern Mediterranean, where we have recently seen problems increase substantially.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the Members' speeches and I must say to you that, while I indicated at the beginning my delight at the success achieved, I now have all the more reason to feel extremely satisfied, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Council, at the results that we have all managed to achieve together.
Please allow me to add that not only do these results allow us to feel satisfied, but they also give prestige to our institutions: Parliament, the Council and the European Commission.
In the eyes of European citizens, we have demonstrated a common will and a common ambition to continue building the European Union, now with 27 Member States, as an area of peace, democracy, freedom, justice and also prosperity.
