President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, Mr Medina Ortega, at its meeting of 19 and 20 June this year, the European Council acknowledged that the recent escalation in food prices is a source of anxiety both in the European Union, where the crisis mainly affects low-income households, and internationally with particular reference to the developing countries.
The European Union will play a full part in implementing the declaration made at the high-level FAO Conference held in Rome on 5 June this year.
Rather than the bizarre notion, proffered in the question, of looking at food security under the common foreign and security policy, would it not be better to return to food security as an original prime objective of the CAP, as President Sarkozy promised in his notable speech at the Paris Agricultural Show in February?
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) In reply to Mr Allister let me say that I do indeed believe that food security must be a prime objective of our review of the common agricultural policy.
It is true that the Doha Round on development should pay more attention to the aspects of food security and balanced global food production than it is doing at present.
This issue will come up at the Council of 20 and 21 November, which will consider the report on mobility by a high-level group of experts headed by Mrs Maria João Rodriguez.
Thirdly, I believe that in the field of education we must also aim to create networks of excellence and promote mobility between our countries, just as we must promote the mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications, so as to make the European labour market more fluid. (DE) Madam President, Minister, I would like to refer to a specific circumstance that I consider to be very important in the context of this issue.
It would interest me to learn whether, in the framework of this pact and perhaps in other frameworks too, you have projects that could further stimulate this interest, this favourable response to Europe, among young people.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, Mr Leichtfried, perhaps I can present my views in a rather less polarised manner.
There are, in South America, certain outermost regions that form an integral part of the European Union and are, by that token, eligible for specific policies.
In the case of Turkey, for example, the screening process, which is the first formal step for each chapter, has been completed for 23 chapters; eight chapters have been opened to negotiation, and for one of them the process is provisionally closed.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Thank you, Mr Evans.
Their inhabitants have been French citizens since 1848 - so that is nothing new - and all that has been taken into account from the outset, since the constituent Treaty establishing the original European Community and then the European Union.
I would say to Mrs Doyle that the question she raised is a very wide-ranging one.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) The European Council considered your very important question at its meeting in March this year, when it pointed out that in a highly competitive global context there is a risk of carbon leakage in certain sectors, such as highly energy-intensive industries, which are particularly exposed to international competition.
On a more serious note, I believe the mechanisms we are considering - and here I am also replying to what Mrs Doyle said a moment ago - are not a stick to be used against the developing countries.
Now that we are at the halfway mark, how does the Council propose to make governments accountable for meeting their MDG commitments, given the fact that there has been a drop in EU aid figures from 0.41% of GNI in 2006 to 0.38% in 2007, a decrease of about 1.5 billion euros?
It is a very topical question, with the third High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Accra meeting as from today and with less than a month to go before the high-level meeting on the Millennium Development Goals, to be held in New York on 25 September.
Another major event will be the Follow-up International Conference on Financing for Development, to be held in Doha from 29 November to 2 December, which will review the implementation of the Monterrey Consensus.
Lastly, on the volume of aid, it is true that we are concerned at the fall in the collective volume of official development aid, which fell from EUR 47.7 billion in 2006 to EUR 46 billion in 2007.
The force, which is made up of some 3 200 troops, can now conduct all the missions assigned to it by the Council.
The Council approved Mr Solana's report on 25 June this year and the Secretary-General of the United Nations will draw on it for his report, which will be debated by the Security Council in the near future.
EUFOR acts within the terms of its mandate and its activities were observed during the rebel attacks on Goz Beida and Biltine in mid-June this year, when it evacuated, sheltered and safeguarded some 300 humanitarian personnel who had requested this and it also prevented the looting of the market in the Goz Beida area.
I am just wondering if any progress has been made on that, either by the UN or by the European Union in the sense that, at the moment, I understand that there are between 7 000 to 10 000 people under 18 years of age carrying arms.
