Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 6 October 2000.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed.
Let me mention their names and, in commemorating them, express our compassion and sympathy at this time of sadness to the members of their families: Luis Portero, Chief Public Prosecutor of the Regional Court of Andalucia, murdered in Granada on 9 October; Antonio Munos Carignanos, a colonel and doctor in the Spanish air force, murdered in Seville on 16 October; Maximo Casado, a prison service employee, murdered yesterday morning in Vitoria.
These victims take the number of ETA murder victims since the cease-fire was broken on 3 December 1999 to a total of sixteen.
The right to life is sacrosanct.
I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to pay tribute to these victims by observing a minute' s silence, and to lend our support to the authorities and to democrats in Spain in their fight against this scourge, a fight that often puts their lives in jeopardy.
Tomorrow, this House will discuss this sensitive issue as part of its debate on the Biarritz European Council, but today I should just like to express my deep sadness at a phenomenon that we find disturbing in the extreme, since it is a tragic illustration of the baleful influence of the extremists on both sides.
The day before yesterday, in Spain, heavy rain and flooding was also to blame for the deaths of three people, with three others reported missing.
Madam President, in connection with your words on the Middle East, I would like to announce an initiative conceived by some of the female Members of Parliament - Nuala Ahern, Pasqualina Napoletano, Ana Palacio Vallelersundi, Ulla Sandbaek and myself - who have asked other women to go with us to Jerusalem to meet with Palestinian and Israeli women who, in recent years, have never stopped trying to communicate with one other and build bridges of peace.
Madam President, last week, the MEP Karla Peijs was attacked in Brussels.
Madam President, there are more victims of ETA, but there are also more victims of the Spanish repression: more arrests, more people tortured, new dispersals of political prisoners jailed in the Basque country.
Our Rules of Procedure do not admit any points of order at this juncture.
The problem is determining whether a matter is grounds for a procedural motion or not.
I think applying the minute rule is the least damaging solution, in the final analysis, as we have, in fact, seen.
I know that it would not be usual for Parliament to hold another minute's silence - and I would not be so bold as to propose this - but I wanted you to be informed of the development, for Antonio Russo was a journalist and a very brave man who gave his life for the freedom of information for all people.
Madam President, pursuant to the second paragraph of Rule 7(4) of our Rules of Procedure, the President is bound to refer the matter to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market before ratifying the decision of the French Government.
The Council of State ruling, which you will perhaps be invoking as a defence very shortly, was issued by a body which has no jurisdiction in the matter, whereas French law stipulates that only plenary is competent to rule on the subject of the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament.
In the course of this procedure, Madam President, the parliamentary immunity of our fellow Member, Jean-Marie Le Pen, has been violated from start to finish.
I do not see how you can cite the Charter of Fundamental Rights, as you did a short time ago, without actually implementing it in the exercise of your office.
Madam President, between 3 October 2000 and yesterday, at least seven memorials were desecrated, eight people were subjected to racist attacks, four hostels for asylum seekers were set upon, and seven synagogues, Jewish cemeteries or memorials were desecrated in the Federal Republic of Germany.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to take a great step towards your dream, one I do not, however, personally share.
Mr Lannoye wishes to speak as the author of this request.
We think, given that for the moment we are at the conciliation stage with regard to the framework directive on GMOs, that it would be wiser to await the conclusion of these conciliation proceedings and to deal with this problem once the framework has been clearly defined, which should, in principle, be in the month of January.
The report was adopted in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development by a good majority and with only two votes against.
It will obstruct the trade in vine material in Europe, and so I believe that in the interests of the single market for Europe' s vine propagators, we must vote on our report. (Parliament rejected the request) Relating to Tuesday: Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to move that a particular item be included in tomorrow morning 's debate, namely a statement from the Commission about an interview that Commissioner Verheugen gave to the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung last Friday, 20 October.
Mr Poettering, in tomorrow' s debate, every speaker will be free to raise any issue and to address both the Council and the Commission.
Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, having deliberated at its sitting of 15 and 16 May, agreed to recommend that the announcement in plenary of Parliament' s confirmation of the removal of Mr Jean-Marie Le Pen' s mandate be suspended.
And I am quoting word for word from the letter dated 17 May that you yourself, Madam President, read in plenary.
As its name indicates, it is an act of the Prince, which does not affect the decree from the French Government which, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, must be announced in plenary.
Thank you, Mrs Palacio.
Consequently, pursuant to Article 12(2) of the Act of 20 September 1976 on the election of representatives to the European parliament by direct universal suffrage, the European Parliament hereby takes note of the notification by the French Government of the termination of Mr Jean-Marie Le Pen' s mandate.
Madam President, this issue arises from a request (announced by yourself to the House on 17 February) by the appropriate Portuguese authorities seeking a waiver of the immunity of Mr Pacheco Pereira in respect of proceedings in Portugal concerning words spoken on a television programme some years ago.
The immunities of Members of the House arise under Article 10 of the Protocol of the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities.
Therefore, under our rules, he enjoys immunity which can be waived only by decision of this Parliament.
Rather, it is an immunity asserted by this House as a whole, in the interests of preserving the conditions of effective, democratic politics and argument and of enabling this House, through its Members, to discharge its function properly in an all-Europe democracy.
Personally, I was not able to intervene to condemn these actions in that it concerned members of my own party who have always been political targets, and my involvement would therefore have appeared exploitative.
The Lisbon Summit has given us the opportunity to lend more weight to social policy; we must seize that opportunity with both hands.
Hence our urgent appeal in favour of the introduction of a social scoreboard, similar to the one already in use in the internal market, which details specific measures, expiry dates and deadlines.
This issue provoked intense interest in societies throughout Europe and the Committee on Women' s Rights has taken account in its opinion of the numerous proposals submitted by representatives of non-governmental organisations and civil society in general.
The Committee on Women' s Rights maintains that the social agenda must focus all its ideas and projects on the qualitative and quantitative participation in the job market of women of all ages and from all social strata and must therefore give priority to any measures which facilitate access to work, the sort of measures to which we refer in our opinion, such as making it easier to combine professional and family lives or other personal choices.
The Committee on Women' s Rights also proposes that women of all ages and from all social strata should have access to an adequate and dignified system of social protection.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen of the House, let me firstly thank you, Mr President, for this personalised introduction.
The European Parliament resolution on the social agenda which you are just about to adopt is a very ambitious contribution to our joint exercise.
Let me first make some general remarks on the social agenda before covering the various individual areas, in a very succinct way, as befits my allotted speaking time.
The agenda is, of course, in keeping with the Lisbon conclusions and the future European Charter of Fundamental Rights, to ensure its effective implementation.
The areas of action listed in the Commission communication were also subject to general agreement.
I think we should adopt a pragmatic approach and overcome any misguidedly ideological rifts.
Here, too, I noted unanimity on the need to continue and step up the Luxembourg process in the context of the objectives established at the European Council in Lisbon.
Let me, at this point, remind you that there will be a European Seminar on this subject on 4 and 5 December in Biarritz, which I shall be chairing.
On the subject of the equality of men and women, many Member States stressed the need for a better coordination of work and family life, particular with regard to childcare.
To stay on this subject a moment, your resolution provides for many measures in favour of women and contains one general objective to include the concept of male-female equality in all the sectors covered by the agenda.
As you perhaps know, on 27 October, I am holding a ministerial symposium on this subject.
You can count on me to make every effort to complete the task successfully and to support the financial commitment of EUR 50 million.
I also noted a strong desire for definition of a genuine Community strategy on the working environment, particularly concerning health and safety.
We all agree that we should pursue the strategy of cooperation in social protection, paying special attention, as we were urged at Lisbon, to the issue of pensioners.
At the Employment and Social Policy Council held on 17 October, a great deal of progress was made in the fight against exclusion by defining appropriate objectives for the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which will serve as a foundation for national action plans.
The agenda could also give an opinion on the follow up to be given to the 1992 recommendation on minimum resources.
This is the aim of this report and we have tried to emphasise this in a number of amendments.
In our Group, we have always set great store by the social market economy as a basis for everything we do, also within the framework of the European Union.
It would have been very wrong on the part of this Parliament not to make any mention of these points, but I am aware that we have not yet solved all the problems related to these points.
I think there are some problems left unsolved, but these will need to be addressed in the course of the votes on the amendments.
For us the open coordination method is very important.
I am glad to hear what Nicole Perry had to say to us today in that respect.
Paragraph 14 lists a number of points we think are important.
Again I was pleased to hear what Nicole Perry has said today.
In our view, open coordination is the correct route to go down if we are to secure a social Europe.
Her contribution has been very constructive, and if my Group is sceptical about a number of the main elements in her report, that is because we disagree politically, and that is, of course, understandable.
Specifically, open coordination must be open both in the choice of resources and in the way in which everyone concerned is involved.
We have no right to miss this deadline unless we intend to shatter the expectations of all the citizens and the collective movements they have formed, which are the groups most motivated to establish a European Union which is a community of citizens.
As far as that is concerned, the directive proposed in the report in order to guarantee the social protection of new forms of working is essential.
Mr President, there really is a need for a social agenda in Europe after many years of neo-liberal economic policy which has lead to unemployment and social exclusion everywhere, including in my own affluent country, Sweden.
Finally, I would just add that I am not a co-author of Amendment No 35 as stated in the document with the amendments.
From an Irish perspective I would like to say to the Members of the House that one of the reasons why there has been such strong economic progress in our country is the fact that we have had a system of social partnership in place since 1987.
However, the European Union is catching up fast and the implementation of a broad range of telecommunications directives and regulations would certainly assist in this process.
Due to the fact that we have wasted another 40 minutes today on a debate about the Rules of Procedure, we are now hopelessly behind schedule.
However, the report says something slightly different: whereas Lisbon calls for a reform of the social model, it calls for reinforcement; whereas Lisbon calls for liberation of enterprise and more flexibility, the report proposes four new or amended directives and a number of legislative initiatives.
The debate today and in the Committee shows that there are major political differences and major differences in ambition in this area, and I think it good that these differences should be clearly brought out.
In some cases, we need the open coordination method.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that the Lisbon Summit has presented us with a picture of a future Europe which cannot, which must not be purely an economic Europe, but which must be a genuine political entity.
I would therefore like to join my fellow Members in congratulating Anne Van Lancker on her report, which opens up new perspectives, with an approach which aims for greater precision and greater coherence.
Moreover, at a time when a great many employees of major European industrial groups face redundancy plans in the context of mergers and restructuring, I think it important for the report on the social agenda to take a stand in favour of taking social clauses into consideration in competition policy, in favour of directives to this end and in favour of a revision of the European Works Council Directive as well as the directive on redundancies.
I would like to raise a criticism in connection with the lack of initiatives produced in response to the new challenges we face in health and safety at work, employee participation and labour relations.
As the rapporteur, Mrs Van Lancker, emphasises, although social dialogue is important, it must produce tangible results.
I would like to particularly stress the benefit which, in terms of employment, can be obtained by women through giving them improved access to employment with guarantees in terms of working time and salary.
I think that there is also a great advantage, if we succeed in getting the directive applied, modified and updated, with regard to maternity leave: for women to receive help during maternity and for maternity to be protected when women have to continue working during that period.
I also think that it will be very positive in terms of helping women to reconcile family and working life.
All these coordinated social policy actions will also help to combat poverty and social exclusion.
We support a pact for employment and social cohesion, a European action plan for employment with a view to boosting the social economy and local employment initiatives, social regulations for new forms of working such as tele-working and new forms of self-employment, the minimum wage, and guaranteed income.
I hope, Minister, that in Nice the French Presidency will succeed in pushing through an ambitious social agenda, since embarking on the construction of a social Europe is still the great hope of all our fellow citizens.
The first is that, since Lisbon, the new approach to social policy is to deal with it not as a product or by-product of economic policy, but as a policy in its own right which needs to be exercised in tandem with economic policy and the employment strategy.
A set of projects and proposals on employment.
I think that what we are endeavouring to achieve through the employment strategy, by strengthening and enriching it as we progress - because the entire social agenda is a process of dynamic change - is to support competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the European Union and flexibility on the job market, alongside security, mobility and new working models, and to support and analyse new social partnership models and the impact of competitiveness and major restructuring on employment and the social state.
The second strand to the social agenda is a set of projects on social policy.
Clearly we have a fairly complete legislative system in Europe, but changes on the job market, changes in the economy, changes in the environment due to globalisation and the information society are throwing up new requirements.
When we need to deal with these new requirements with legislation, we shall not, of course, have any hesitation in doing so.
The problem is that, because of the legal basis which it has in the Treaty, the social agenda does not constitute a set of laws, a set of directives with specific steps for the Member States.
And one last comment: the question of sexual equality runs right through the social agenda as regards both the political approach and the content and means.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your interesting speech.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
The Commission' s communication affirms that democracy is a fundamental value of the EU Member States, the EEA States and the candidate countries, as well as a key part of external relations and development cooperation in the Union.
We believe that 40 per cent of the Structural Funds should be earmarked to focus on women' s conditions and needs.
The Commission' s proposed measures should be expanded to include reviews of individual access to medical and health care and to social security and pensions, an analysis of shortcomings in the organisation of work and perhaps also a study of the significance of a general reduction in working hours.
What we mean in the Committee by strategy is, of course, not the Commission' s opening gambit, but that strategy beginning as from paragraph 2 ( 'The Strategy' ).
It is therefore important that non-governmental organisations should obtain influence in the course of implementation.
We think it is extremely important to promote a positive image of women and visibility of their work and importance.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have had the fourth framework programme, and today we are discussing the fifth.
Therefore it is still our goal for the next five years to consolidate the position of women in the policies of all Member States, both in terms of quality and content.
Problems to do with access to social security must be looked at on a case-by-case basis to this end.
The European Parliament, the national parliaments and networks must therefore become more closely involved.
This programme is therefore conditional on funds totalling EUR 50 million being made available for the period from 2001 to 2005.
We must invest our energies in the realisation and implementation of the planned programmes, and this must go hand in hand with well-timed evaluations and coordination with other programmes.
Women' s policy must also be a criteria used to assess whether the candidate countries are ready for accession.
The European Parliament could lead the way here by setting a better example.
Women' s policy is not - as happens so often - to be incorporated into programmes for minorities.
This could work if the framework strategy were an integral part of the programme, as an annex to it.
There has not been a shortage of good ideas or good plans to achieve equality in the past but their implementation has often failed.
The involvement of local and regional authorities in this process is invaluable.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one is disputing that we should strive for greater equity between men and women.
In this respect, in New York, very distinct differences between the European Union and Poland emerged.
A decision of this type would be like a breath of fresh air to the strange alliances which too closely bind a number of pressure groups to the European Commission and to some political groups in this House.
This is something my Group will take into consideration in its final vote. (Applause from the UEN Group) Mr President, we are aware of the progress that has been made in recent years with regard to the situation of women, particularly the legislative progress, but there are still situations of real inequality in everyday life.
The low level of representation of women in political and economic spheres and gender-related violence are two clear signs that structural discrimination against women is continuing.
This programme will undoubtedly help to ensure that the concerns, needs and aspirations of women are taken into account in all policies.
The current situation requires that positive action measures in favour of women be implemented.
The objectives that the programme sets out in five specific areas will help to ensure that all the action taken will be associated with at least one of those areas.
Participation in economic life, which women should enjoy under equal conditions to men, employment, which is the basis for all equality and integration, and achieving the 60% target proposed at the Lisbon Summit, would also solve other problems.
Equality in participation and representation, balance in the decision-making process, greater participation in political life, whatever the process adopted, in order to achieve an increase in the participation of women, until we reach the 40% figure proposed by the Commission.
Equal access and full enjoyment of social rights for women and men, which would mean ensuring that the legislation is applied in the social sphere in terms of maternity leave, maternity protection, working time, employment contracts, etc.
Equality between women and men in civil life, allowing women to fully enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms.
In relation to this objective we will support the organisation of awareness campaigns and a European Equality Week in cooperation with the Member States, as the Commission proposes.
We think that it is very useful to create a web site, not only due to the increasing use of computerised media, but because this will help women to familiarise themselves more and more with this new world from which they must not be excluded.
Something that we think is of particular importance is the evaluation of the programme ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are now discussing Commissioner Diamantopoulou' s second tour de force.
With the framework strategy and the new action programme in place, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities - working under intense time pressure, and restricted to only a few official languages - has now, with a great deal of good will, introduced 60 proposed amendments.
I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council, Nicole Péry, will be able to get through the programme in the Council in November.
Mr President, following the first four action programmes for equality between women and men, it was a good move on the part of the Commission to innovate by proposing a Community framework strategy for equality and a programme to implement this strategy and make real progress towards equality.
I find the Commission' s new approach to be a very positive one, and the proposal for a decision for the 2001-2005 programme to have been well considered.
It is a very serious mistake, in politics, to mix strategy up with tactics or with programmes.
I am also of the opinion that the appropriations for the European Women' s Lobby, budget line A 3037, should not be included in the appropriations committed for the programme and I hope that the Commissioner will favour the amendments that I and the other members of my Group have tabled, above the rapporteur' s own far-fetched amendments.
This programme is an important document for the Committee on Women' s Rights, which is why it provoked a great deal of interest and, of course, it forms part of the more overall strategy which was discussed with the Committee on Women' s Rights, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Council.
It is the familiar 5-pronged strategy of participation of women in economic life, at the decision-making centres, in social policy, in civil society and in human rights, together with the new model of gender equality for the mass media and education.
We are also able to accept parts of Amendments Nos 3, 7, 8, 11, 14, 15, 20, 27, 35, 37, 45, 50, 53, 57 and 58.
I think that the large number of amendments accepted is illustrative of the meeting of minds between the Commission and the Committee on Women' s Rights.
It is not possible for the entire strategy to form part of the Council decision, but I agree that some amendments could be made to the wording of the articles in order to make it perfectly clear that this strategy has been taken into account and forms the basis on which the programme will be implemented.
I really do believe that the strategy behind this programme, the main objective of which is to implement mainstreaming in all policies, is a huge challenge for all of us, both at Commission level, with the cooperation between the individual committees which we need in order to obtain a final result, and at national level, with the need for horizontal action in every ministry so that the women' s policy becomes a horizontal policy.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
It is a splendid piece of work that Commissioner Monti and his staff carried out last year.
In my report on the twenty-ninth report on the Commission' s competition policy, I expended particular energy on the problems concerning mergers and the repayment of State aid.
The world is not, of course, always so easy for those who have to follow the rules and procedures we are involved in devising.
Quite simply, a period of between 25 and 35 months is too long in our global village for getting a case through the courts, and what is very time consuming is having the documents of the case translated.
The other subject I raised in my report is that of State aid and the repayment of State aid which has been awarded unlawfully.
I should also like to thank my fellow MEPs in Committee for the splendid way in which they have cooperated in connection with my report.
I should like to begin somewhat unusually by congratulating the Commission on a document it published back in June 1999 - the Community rules on state aid, what I might call the "idiot's guide" to the operation of the state aid scheme.
Turning now to the eighth survey: although there has been a reduction in the overall level of state aid during the period concerned, this can in fact be attributed to a minority of Member States and, taken overall, ten Member States have seen levels of state aid increase.
That is important in terms of the need for transparency.
I would ask him how he sees the debate on enlargement in view of the fact that, on the one hand, we must ensure that we have a common regime across all states within the European Union and, on the other hand, it must be the case that some of the candidate countries have particular difficulties in adjusting to new open market conditions.
I would also make the point to Commissioner Monti that it is important that in the next survey we see a rather larger section on the financial services sector.
I should like to congratulate him on a speech he made in Barcelona in September - and I am very grateful to his staff for sending a copy of the speech to me - devoted as it was to his view on the synergy between state aid control and the financial services sector.
For instance, during the period of time of this report, no state aid was given to the coal sector in the UK and yet we all know that significant aid is currently being proposed by the UK Government.
It is quite clear that throughout the report itself much attention has been directed not just to the past but also to Commissioner Monti' s proposals for future reform of competition policy.
Commissioner Monti will be very well aware of the concerns that are shared by many people who support his proposals for reform but feel that there need to be answers in relation to issues like jurisdiction shopping, legal certainty, the role of national courts, dialogue between the national competition authorities and the Commission itself, as also issues of staffing within the Commission.
I will take the precaution, Commissioner - in case you should want to point out that this in fact falls within Commissioner Palacio' s remit - of saying that I am addressing the Commission as a whole.
The support is still there.
But if you carry on in this vein, you risk losing the support of not insignificant sections of the House.
Paragraph 16 of Mrs Riis-Jørgensen' s report talks of increased legal certainty where applications for mergers are concerned, together with more effective and shorter timeframes within which to appeal before courts.
The second paragraph I want to mention is paragraph 18.
It is of general relevance, but its point of departure is the planned merger between motor manufacturers Volvo and Scania.
As is well known, the Commission opposed this merger, which in turn led to an extensive debate about how the rules of competition operate and how market shares are to be calculated and assessed.
Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian Radicals, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the two sound reports they have produced, which commend both your work and the work of the Directorate-General for Competition.
However, we cannot be satisfied with this response if we want Europe to become a more competitive and more open market in the future and - dare I say it - if we study carefully certain situations which are developing, in which even the current rules would allow us to intervene.
In many cases, they are companies which operate entirely or in part with considerable legal monopolistic reserves.
By way of example, Deutsche Post has recently gained control of DHL International and is operating under a monopoly for dispatches up to 200 grams, and then, on a more general note, we could cite the diversification of the State postal companies in other sectors; EDF (Eléctricité de France) has taken over companies in Britain, Sweden and Finland, France Telecom has taken over Orange; on the Italian side of things, Enel has taken over Infostrada and, still in the Italian context, we could mention the various companies owned by local authorities which are behaving in a similar fashion.
Mr President, we welcome the modernisation of the competition policy which, in terms of set-up, has undergone little change since the sixties.
If we want to avoid a chaotic and unwieldy bureaucracy in Brussels, then we have no choice but to embrace decentralisation.
I am delighted about the special attention being paid to the position of large undertakings in small Member States in Paragraph 18 of the motion for a resolution.
Finally, the book by your predecessor, and former Commissioner, Mr Van Miert, entitled "Mijn jaren in Europa" [My years in Europe] gives some idea of the blackmail-like tactics which a Competition Commissioner comes up against.
Competition is therefore always a means to an end.
It is a vital cornerstone of our model, in terms of political order, of the socio-economic market economy.
The Community' s competition policy has been given a new European and international dimension.
This is certain, but if each and every one of us is honest, we have to admit that in our public life we have often defended state aid when an undertaking has required it in order to establish itself, for example, in our constituency, or in order to prevent it from closing.
I began by saying this in order to highlight what is associated with some positions and to point out that when we are trying to issue a European Parliament opinion on the annual report on state aid, the Group of the Europe People' s Party tries to conduct an ideological debate in this House on state aid in which it aims to go further than anyone and to demonise all types of aid.
The same occurs when the report insists, following the Commission' s line, that aid for coal did not serve to secure the future of the industry, but in the same paragraph they refuse to accept a sentence, also from the Commission, saying that this aid was necessary in order to mitigate the social and regional impact of the restructuring of the sector.
In this respect, it is difficult for us to agree with a report which, although it reflects part of the truth, refuses to include another part of the truth.
However, in shaping European competition policy we have to ensure that it does not limit the opportunities for companies to succeed in the wider, global economy as well.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me express my deep disagreement with the excessively liberal, if not actually ultraliberal, tendencies of the report by our fellow Member, Mr Evans.
It is therefore particularly apt to acknowledge three things in this debate.
Firstly, the fact that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights has now been drafted, Article 16 of which establishes the right to entrepreneurial freedom.
Thirdly therefore, I would like to congratulate the Commission and its staff on the actions and decisions they have taken in the field of competition law, previously under Karel van Miert and now under your overall control, Professor Monti.
Firstly, the Member States have the right to define everything that belongs under this heading.
And obviously, Mr President, although my opinion refers to the Commission' s 29th report on competition policy, it is inevitable at such a time that we will look to the past, but for no other reason than in order to learn for the future.
And also, of course, that the Commission' s policy, which we welcome and support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, should not be shaped, in this process of decentralisation, to the detriment of small and medium-sized businesses, to the detriment of the citizens.
I will end with a phrase from John Rawls, the philosopher of law: inequalities are always justified when they increase the level of the system and support the weakest without affecting fundamental rights.
On the subject of explaining competition policy, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased with the success of the first two European Competition Days, which were held in Lisbon on 9 June and in Paris on 17 October this year.
The idea was conceived in this Parliament and developed by Parliament and the Commission.
Mr President, in the time available to me, I would like to focus on the following three points: the modernisation of Community competition law, the practical application of competition rules in 1999 and State aid.
The annual report on competition policy emphasises the need to modernise the legislative and interpretative framework of Community competition law in the areas of both monopolies and State aid.
As far as monopolies are concerned, the Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the matter on 27 September last.
As you know, on 9 and 10 November, the Commission and Parliament are jointly organising a conference on this reform in Freiburg, a conference proposed for the first time precisely in your resolution on the White Paper.
My second point is the application of the competition rules during 1999.
The third point is State aid.
Mr President, I would now like to focus on at least some of the specific points raised.
The recourse to external expertise can be useful and already takes place in a number of cases.
It may, on occasion, be uncomfortable, but this is our task.
State aids have their place but it is a fact that in many cases the concrete manifestation of state aids goes well beyond what the Treaty allows and what the guidelines allow.
Of course, Parliament has a very important role to play in this respect.
The financial assistance is currently governed by Council Regulation No 1969 of 1988.
This mechanism can be activated either at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which remains in force during the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union for the States which are covered by a derogation, currently Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
The regulation and the proposal for a regulation have merged two mechanisms (medium-term financial assistance and the Community loan mechanism intended to provide medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments) into a single facility providing medium-term financial assistance.
Therefore, although the increase in convergence of States reduces the likelihood that the mechanism will be used, it must still have sufficient resources to meet the simultaneous needs of several countries, should this be necessary.
The aim of this Commission report is to provide a basis for examining the single facility providing medium-term financial support and for revising it, should this prove necessary.
The financial mechanism implements Article 119 of the EC Treaty, which only remains in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for the Member States which are not participating in monetary union.
Thirdly and finally, the drop in the number of Member States who could now apply for this form of financial support and the need to cover the potential borrowing requirement of new Member States justify lowering the mechanism's ceiling from EUR 16 billion to EUR 12 billion.
The Economic and Financial Committee has drawn up an opinion which it sent to the Presidency on 14 July 2000.
The debate is closed.
The vine propagating material provides the basis for optimal grape and wine production as regards quality, excellence and quantity, and establishes these factors over a period of 25 to 40 years.
The trade in, and marketing of, material for vegetative propagation of vines has, up to now, been laid down in directive 68/193/EEC dating from 1968.
Accordingly, the Commission should publish a Community Catalogue of varieties, compiled on the basis of notifications from the Member States.
The question as to whether genetically modified vines will be granted a permit at some future date, or whether this idea will be rejected by the wine producers and the wine trade, does not form part of today' s discussion of the directive.
On 5 July, some of these issued the Beaune declaration, expressing their great concern at the introduction of GMOs into their sector.
Finally, we must ensure that the new provisions on genetically modified varieties are in every respect compliant and compatible with existing texts, or texts in preparation, in this field.
The base legislation in force dates from 1968, a long way back, and a great deal of progress had been made in this sector since then: new materials have been tried out, often using natural methods and sometimes genetic modification.
Hence the urgent need for a modern regulation which recognises these new possibilities available to European vine growers and, at the same time, protects traditional varieties of vine.
The determination to amend the directive on the marketing of material for the vegetative propagation of the vine may look like a laudable initiative to update a rather technical text, which is 32 years old.
The very first lines of the Klass report clearly stress the value, not just the economic value but also the cultural value, of grape and wine production.
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in order to respect the precautionary principle in both spirit and letter, should the articles and amendments which I have just mentioned not be withdrawn, then, as the wine growers themselves demand, we would have to fall in with the opinion of Marianne Isler Béguin, and the Committee on the Environment, and vote against them.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has tabled 26 amendments.
The Commission is able to accept the majority of them, that is 24 out of 26 amendments, as they are currently worded or with minor changes relating to the way they are worded or presented.
For example, the proposal to recognise the specific characteristics of the genotype, referred to in Amendments Nos 4, 12, 15, 16 and 20, will be incorporated by changing the wording of the text.
With reference to the other two amendments, Amendments Nos 2 and 18, we can only partially accept them for the reason that certain aspects are unjustifiably aggressive towards other countries - Amendment 2 - or because the reference to the Commission' s obligation to provide greater resources should a common catalogue of varieties be compiled - Amendment No 18 - is superfluous.
Mr President, if you permit, I should like to ask the Commissioner to give an opinion on the amendment put forward by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Amendment No 1.
The debate is closed.
