Toys Directive (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Thyssen, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of toys - C6-0039/2008 -.
Both in the multi-annual programme on consumer protection and in the resolution and the debate further to the withdrawal from the market of unsafe, mainly Chinese toys, we have made passionate pleas for the protection of the smallest and most vulnerable consumers, namely children, to be placed high on the agenda.
I would like to thank the Commission, because it responded to our call to propose a new directive.
I would also like to thank the draftsmen of the opinions, the shadow rapporteurs, the president and the members of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection for the excellent cooperation that made it possible to approve my report unanimously on 6 November.
There will, in principle, be a ban on the use of carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic substances in permitted toy components.
Finally, we have explicitly decided against a system of third-party certification in respect of toys that comply with the standards.
The market in toys, through its buoyancy, capacity for innovation and structure, is particularly sensitive and complex, and the colegislators have had to find a balanced approach that guarantees the safety of toys without increasing their prices and that does not impose overly heavy obligations on the manufacturers and importers of reputable toys.
Respect for the environment and the absence of substances that are in any way toxic or that present an allergenic risk have been at the heart of public debate.
Like 80% of the goods that circulate within the Union, toys are subject to this technical harmonisation approach, which is organised in accordance with a well-known architecture: European legislation - in this case the proposal of new directives - lays down the essential safety requirements, which are translated and refined technically into standards.
The re-evaluation of toy safety in line with these new legislative standards symbolises the colegislators' commitment to considering this area as a priority, since this is the first sectoral application of these horizontal provisions.
Indeed, in the text negotiated by the institutions - which is endorsed by a large majority of the Member States and which is therefore acceptable to the Council - not only market supervision, but also a number of the essential safety requirements, including the proposals aimed at limiting potential chemical risks in toys, are enhanced.
The provisions relating to carcinogenic and toxic substances were further enhanced during the negotiations between the colegislators in order to minimise or totally eliminate these substances, in particular for all accessible toy parts, and also to enhance the precautions relating to possible reactions when toys are put in the mouth, something that is inevitably done by the consumers of these goods.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, during the second half of 2007 we were confronted with recall actions by a large manufacturer of toys that had voluntarily withdrawn defective products from the market.
Even though we all know that no one can absolutely guarantee the safety of products that we handle every day, citizens rightly expect not only that their children can play in peace, but also that their toys are safe.
In its resolution of 26 September 2007 on the safety of toys, the European Parliament called on the Commission to get the revision of the Toys Directive underway immediately, containing efficient, effective and detailed requirements for product safety.
In January 2008, the Commission presented its proposal and I am very happy that today - only eleven months later and in fact in good time before Christmas - we have a new EU law bringing extensive improvements to the safety of toys.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Thyssen, most sincerely for her successful work.
I would also like to thank Mrs McCarthy for the huge dedication she displayed in the consultations with the Presidency and the Commission.
The new European Toys Directive makes toys in Europe safer.
That applies in particular to the use of chemicals in toys, in which regard the directive sets completely new standards.
The directive is the only law worldwide to contain an explicit ban on carcinogens or substances that can impair reproduction or cause genetic changes.
Not every toy that is placed on the market in Europe can be tested.
In addition to increased obligations for economic operators, the directive also contains very detailed rules on how Member States are to carry out market surveillance in accordance with the internal market package from July of this year.
Well-functioning market surveillance is a very important element in the directive.
The present text is an example of how the European institutions are able in a short time to get good, comprehensive, globally unique European legislation off the ground.
I believe that, with this directive, we have created a good basis for safe toys in Europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, two crucial elements have led the European Parliament to review its legislation on the safety of toys: the significant number of toys presenting safety problems that were recalled a year ago, and the studies demonstrating the impact of chemical substances on children's health.
I repeat: children are among the most vulnerable people in society, and their fast-developing organisms are fragile.
I do not understand how cadmium and lead can be banned in certain goods but permitted in toys, when we know how children use them.
Nonetheless, we believe that these steps could have been much larger.
We do not understand how substances such as lead, mercury or cadmium can still be found in toys.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say a huge and sincere thank you to our rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Thyssen.
As several points have already been mentioned, I would like to respond to one particular point.
There are a number of Member States of the European Union in which books provide a considerable contribution to the education of children.
For this reason, Commissioner, I would be very grateful if you could ask the CEN or the industry concerned as soon as possible to look for ways to formulate the standards relating to the various tests on children's books and the resistance of the cardboard in children's books in such a way that the existing stock of children's books can also be retained in the future.
I would like to thank Mrs Thyssen, my colleagues, the Council and the Commission for their extremely constructive cooperation.
Just as Mrs Thyssen and several others here in this House have said, we have improved the directive in a number of areas.
For us social democrats, a consistently high level of safety was the top priority objective.
Our group wanted third party certification for certain toys, but we did not receive any support for this, either from the other party groups in the committee or from the Council and the Commission.
This principle is now stated in the article, which means that market surveillance authorities can now refer to this principle if there is reason to believe that a toy is dangerous but there is no scientific evidence for this.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, first of all I would like to offer my sincere thanks to our rapporteur for the Toys Directive, Mrs Thyssen.
I would also like to thank the Council and our girl from the French Presidency: well done!
From a position of wanting to prohibit all chemicals and all fragrances, we have surely all learnt that nothing is black and white.
I think that the proposal we have in front of us is extremely reasonable.
I think that we have reached compromises with the Council and the Commission which mean that we can be satisfied and, most importantly, that children can continue to play and manufacturers can continue to make toys, but safe toys.
However, we must not prohibit all substances if it is not necessary from the point of view of health, as in doing so we would prevent the production of children's bicycles, for example.
I would also like to bring up our trilogue negotiations, in which we were unable to reach agreement on the legal basis with regard to noise, books and third party certification.
I therefore very much expect, Commissioner, that the very clear statements from the Commission concerning these three issues will be followed through, and we in Parliament will follow up on this.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues.
We have improved the Commission's report again and the results that we sought in the first reading are in many cases good.
Therefore, I cannot understand why cardboard picture books are being treated as toys and why there are special procedures for these in the CEN.
It is strange that it is our children, the most vulnerable members of our community, who are often in danger from products that are not up to standard.
More than 22 million toys were returned all over the world in the last five years.
This directive is an improvement but it is only a beginning.
We must continue on and ensure that these products are safe.
It shows that improved legislation is required, but also improved monitoring.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict how children will use a particular toy.
Therefore the legislation must also apply to broken toys, as some hazardous substances are then released.
The June List is therefore of the opinion that the updating of current legislation in the area is welcome, but at the same time I would like to warn against ill-concealed protectionism.
It must be possible for toys that meet the safety requirements to be imported into and sold in the EU, irrespective of whether they have been manufactured in the EU or in Asia.
More than a year has passed since the European Parliament adopted a declaration on the safety of products, especially toys, which initiated work on the product safety package that was approved in March 2008.
The directive reflects the scientific advances of the last 20 years and forbids the use of hazardous materials in toys.
The same responsibility also applies across the supply chain, where the market supervision authorities will carry out quality checks and will ensure that products on sale fully comply with the high safety requirements.
I would like to highlight the work of Marianne Thyssen, who has managed to secure agreement at the first reading.
Thus, there are more stringent rules for substances that could be carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction.
These are all success stories that we as the European Parliament have achieved together with the other institutions - the Council and the Commission.
I also highly appreciate the efficient work of Mrs Thyssen.
We have met our deadline in the EP resolution last year of voting in a new toy safety law before Christmas 2008.
We can give parents confidence that toys on sale in the EU will be safer in future, and we are also sending out today a strong message to manufacturers, brand owners and importers that they must meet our high safety standards or there will be no place for their products on our shelves.
The 1988 directive may have come up to expectations and safeguarded a high level of safety in toys for twenty years, but it urgently needs to be revised and updated, given that there are now new types of toys and new materials on the market and factories established in countries outside the European Union.
I believe that we have made progress on several issues, such as a ban on the carcinogenic chemicals used in toys, which give rise to great cause for concern about children's health, a gradual reduction in the heavy metals used in the manufacture of toys, such as cadmium and lead, a reduction in the list of aromatic and allergenic substances, separate labelling for toys contained in foods and stricter safety specifications for all toy manufacturers.
To close, I should like to point out that liability takes many forms in the toy safety sector, which is why importers and distributors should ensure that specifications are complied with.
We are taking a big step forward today and I am sure that others will follow in future. (DA) Mr President, as it currently stands, the toy proposal will mean that, in two to four years, European children will be able to play with much safer toys than they do today.
That said, I also believe that we are, in actual fact, missing an opportunity to not only make things good, but to make things really good for our children.
I believe that we should have an outright ban.
I therefore think quite simply that we should have been stricter here and imposed an outright ban on fragrances out of consideration for our children.
That being said, the proposal does, of course, represent a pronounced improvement on the current situation and it is a very good thing that we have also tightened up the rules regarding market surveillance and the responsibility of the Member States.
There are over 2 000 toy manufacturers in the EU.
I believe this text represents such a balance and, therefore, I would like to commend my colleague, Ms Thyssen, and all who have worked to make this a successful directive. (DE) Mr President, toxic toys do not belong in the hands of children and none of us wants to put toxic toys under the Christmas tree.
It was in summer 2007 that a number of scandals occurred.
The Commission made efforts and, today, we are in a position to adopt this directive on the safety of toys, which marks a considerable step forward.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go over some of the problems that have been relevant in this debate.
I would like to know what more we could be expected to do.
On the subject of books, I was very surprised when this came up as an issue in recent days.
The Commission is going to issue instructions in this connection.
Regarding third-party certification - and I am saying this to the TÜV Group in this House - the belief that a toy, or any product, in Europe will be made safer because it has been certified by a third-party body is, unfortunately, a baseless one.
There is nothing - absolutely nothing - to suggest that third-party certification makes any products safer.
We require such third-party certification in cases where - and this is a principle of European legislation that this House has observed for very many years - the product concerned is an extremely complex one.
The dangers that arise in practice cannot be combated at all through certification.
It is not true that manufacturers simply have to say 'my product is safe' or 'my toy is safe'; they must be able, at the request of the market surveillance authorities, to document that fact at any time, in full and with no gaps.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Declarations of the European Commission for the adoption of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of toys (Thyssen report) Declaration of the European Commission on monitoring of safety aspects (Article 47) Following the entry into force of the revised Toys Safety Directive, the Commission will monitor closely all developments relating to its implementation in order to assess whether its provides for an adequate level of toy safety, notably as concerns the application of the conformity assessment procedures as laid down in Chapter IV.
The revised Toys Safety Directive provides for a reporting obligation of Member States on the situation concerning the safety of toys, the effectiveness of the Directive and market surveillance performed by Member States.
The evaluation by the Commission will inter alia be based on the Member States' reports to be submitted three years following the date of application of the Directive with a particular focus on market surveillance in the European Union and its external borders.
Declaration of the European Commission on the requirements concerning toys which are designed to emit a sound (Annex II.
I should like to point out, though, that this is not simply about a compromise in which the European Parliament had to give much ground; quite the reverse, in fact.
I have heard you say that you set great store by market supervision, and I assume that during the monitoring process, the Commission will pay extra attention to the way in which the Member States acquit themselves of their task of market supervision.
I have also heard you say, Commissioner, that you wish to further regulate noise standards, and refine them by means of standardisation - the same applies to books, which are also regulated by standards - and that we should examine the way in which more legal certainty can be provided in that area.
I think that we as Parliament should count ourselves lucky that we have had such good contacts with the other institutions, and this will probably result in a wonderful Christmas gift for the European families, namely safe, or should I say even safer, toys from now on.
The vote will take place on Thursday 18 December 2008.
In Poland, for instance, there are many undertakings producing very good quality toys made of wood or synthetic substances.
The vast majority of these undertakings are SMEs employing fewer than 10 workers.
The Directive introduces significantly higher standards than those currently in place, notably in relation to the chemical content of toys, including CMRs, fragrances and allergens.
in writing. - (ET) I am truly very pleased that we have succeeded in passing the Toy Safety Directive.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and his colleagues from the Social Democratic faction for their hard work in ensuring a safe environment for our children.
The European Directive on the safety of toys (88/378/EEC), however, dates from 1988 and is thus no longer up to today's challenges.
This also means, of course, that CMR 1 and CMR 2 substances must be banned from children's toys.
The legislation we have before us now has been in force since 1988 and is no longer up to date, as toys nowadays include electronic components and make noise.
We need up-to-date legislation to protect the well-being of our children.
