Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report because it calls for a reform in the interests of protecting children, also introducing measures to increase the security of passports.
All in all, therefore, it is a package that takes forward the fight against child trafficking and for greater protection of children. - (CS) I consider it necessary to add biometrics to the security features of travel documents.
This measure will reduce child abuse by organised criminals across borders, which is another reason why I support this apparently controversial topic. (NL) Mr President, I was happy to add my emphatic support to the Coelho report on biometrics in EU passports, because, if nothing else, this is a first step in the fight against the very many abuses and forgeries of passports.
I voted against the Coelho report for two reasons.
I believe that when we are reforming, when we are making documents available, when we are ensuring that there is greater transparency, we should take steps to show which parliamentarians are participating in the work of Parliament and which are not. - (CS) The European arms market operates inefficiently because it is fragmented.
Today we have created a space for public procurement in this sector while respecting the exemptions for strategic reasons under Article 273 of the Treaty of Establishment.
DCM is one of these substances and must be taken out of circulation. - (CS) I applaud the international agreement which will establish new employment conditions for workers in the fisheries sector.
The European Union is now facing very serious problems, such as the financial crisis and the energy crisis caused by the Ukrainian-Russian conflict.
The consequences of the crises will undoubtedly affect every citizen of the European Union, whether Slovak, Pole, Hungarian or German.
We should concentrate more on finding solutions and on ratifying the Treaty of Lisbon in order to boost the competitiveness of the European Union.
We must keep in mind Schuman's statement that an intelligent European cannot rejoice in his neighbour's misfortune since we are all bound by a common fate, both in good times and in bad times. (DE) Mr President, the Catania report is a real sham.
The Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) delegation and myself reject out of hand the above demands, which were adopted by a majority, and therefore we - myself included - voted against this report. - (SK) I voted for the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union 2004-2008.
I made my support conditional upon the rejection of the original draft wording in Article 49 concerning support for territorial and regional autonomy.
This is a very valuable conclusion from today's plenary of the European Parliament and I think we are all to be congratulated on it. - (CS) Mr President, I also voted against the adoption of this report from a Communist MEP on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union.
The report assumes an overly one-sided political view of human rights in the Union.
The report tramples on subsidiarity by dictating rules on family policy and other ethical issues, which is contrary to the founding treaties. (MT) I also voted against Catania's report, because it contains at least three references to abortion as a human right.
I would rather stand for what I think is right than to applaud that which is wrong. (NL) Mr President, in my career in this Parliament, I have rarely seen such a catalogue of politically correct nonsense and so-called progressive platitudes as in the Catania report.
Parliament has once again made an utter fool of itself by approving the Catania report by an overwhelming majority. (NL) Mr President, the right to the free expression of opinion and the way in which this right can be exercised is without a doubt a key indicator for assessing our fundamental rights situation.
People should therefore know what they want.
It is impossible to be a little in favour of the free expression of opinion.
Instead, I abstained because I believe the disability amendment is important for those of us who care for those who do not speak, have no voice and are not listened to. - (SK) The Catania report covers many human rights issues.
As a medical doctor I defend human life and human dignity from conception onward, and therefore I did not vote for this controversial text, which, moreover, fails to respect the principle of subsidiarity. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Mr Pirker said, and therefore I do not need to spend any more time on that.
I voted against the report in its entirety, for the precise reasons I have mentioned. (NL) Mr President, rarely have I voted against a report with so much conviction as today.
I am very much opposed to the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The rights that are spelt out in the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms are not so very different from those adumbrated in the constitutions of, say, East Germany or the USSR, but as the citizens of those unhappy polities discovered, paper rights in themselves are worthless in the absence of adequate mechanisms of parliamentary government.
There is no crisis of human rights in the European Union, but there is a crisis of democratic legitimacy.
Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est! (PL) Mr President, all children have the right to the love of both their parents.
Children have the right to speak with their parents in their mother tongue.
However, the British enjoy perfectly good human rights under our own law and we do not need the protection of the European Union.
The issue of whether drug abusers should face criminal charges is a matter for Member State law and the EU should not seek to undermine and replace the judicial systems of Member States.
As a clergyman and member of a Hungarian minority subject to discrimination, willing to compromise if necessary, I voted in good conscience for the Catania report on fundamental rights, as I consider it a significant step forward in many respects, for instance as regards social rights.
I agree with what has been said by Mrs Kinga Gál.
I regret that paragraph 49 has failed to include statements on traditional minority and community rights or on territorial and regional autonomy. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
In the final vote, I voted against this report, which was worthy of support in many ways.
There are, indeed, other issues included in this report, such as living wills and the right to dignity at the end of life, which are sensitive issues, regarding which we have had to abstain.
I would like to thank you for this opportunity.
in writing. - (NL) Common sense has prevailed in the Coelho report, and this is why I have emphatically voted in favour of it.
This is a regulation that we have disagreed with since its creation in 2004, as it introduces the harmonisation of security mechanisms and the integration of biometric identifiers, in the context of the security policies promoted at European Union level.
This amendment has the essential objective of introducing exemptions for children under 12 years of age, a derogation that is planned to last four years, so that countries with legislation that establishes a lower age limit can keep it, provided that they observe the minimum limit of six years (in the case of Portugal, France and Estonia), apart from other aspects relating to the protection and security of biometric data.
For these reasons we abstained.
For example, it is unacceptable for different Member States to apply different rules on the age for fingerprinting children, and therefore it is important to introduce measures, particularly with regard to child trafficking, that, if not always taken jointly, are at least more comprehensive.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I am voting for the report on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No 2252/2004 on standards for security features and biometrics in passports and travel documents issued by Member States.
I also support Mr Coelho's initiative to allow two exemptions from mandatory fingerprinting in respect of children under the age of six and all persons who for various reasons are physically unable to give fingerprints.
I voted in favour of this report because it clarifies important points regarding the standards required for issuing biometric passports.
This unacceptable directive, which has been approved by the supporters in the European Parliament of the one-way street in Europe, is the inevitable result of the EU's frantic 'anti-terrorism' policy which, in order essentially to safeguard the sovereignty of capital over the labour and grassroots movement, has dangerously christened even children as dangerous.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting on the 'Report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2252/2004 on standards for security features and biometrics in passports and travel documents issued by Member States'.
I agree with the proposal to use passports for children too, in order to combat child abduction and trafficking.
I support the minimum threshold of six years of age, but the name of the person or persons with parental responsibility for the child should be included in the document, for the reasons given above.
in writing. - (SV) We have voted in favour of Mr Lambsdorff's report on procurement rules in the fields of defence and security.
in writing. - Alexander Graf Lambsdorff has presented a proposal concerning the Commission's 'Defence Package', covering procurement for both military and non-military security purposes as well as covering public contracts concluded between EU operators.
This proposal improves upon the 2004 Directive (2004/18/EC) currently in force by increasing flexibility, transparency and, vitally, fair competition.
in writing. - (FR) Strengthening the competitiveness of the European defence industry, which is supposedly damaged by European markets that are too narrow and too closed in on themselves, has served as a pretext for this Directive on the opening up to competition of public contracts in this sector.
in writing. - (PL) The European defence procurement market is highly fragmented, which has a negative economic impact.
The main aim of the adopted directive is to do away with this fragmentation and to create a common defence market on the territory of the European Union, while taking account of the specific aspects of the defence market and protecting the security interests of the Member States.
in writing. - The Conservative Delegation has consistently supported efforts to open markets and encourage cross-border trade between Member States of the EU.
For all these reasons the Conservative Delegation abstained on the report.
The establishment of a European defence technology and defence industry base and a European market for the procurement of defence material is intended to contribute to this.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur that the proposal for a directive should aim to establish a uniform European legal framework which enables the Member States to apply Community law without jeopardising their security interests.
I voted in favour of the Schlyter report on restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (dichloromethane).
According to the Commission, between 1989 and 2007, 18 deaths caused by the use of DCM were recorded in the EU.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the Schlyter report on amending the Council directive as regards restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations.
Dichloromethane, in fact, has many adverse effects on human health: it has a narcotic and depressive effect on the central nervous system, as well as causing cardio-toxicological effects at high exposures.
It is therefore necessary for the current legislation on the health and safety of workers to be enforced, since, the enforcement procedures in this field are inadequate, mainly because of the large number, small size and mobile nature of the enterprises supplied.
The vote that took place today on this report, which I presented on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the ILO Work in Fishing Convention, 2007, is an important contribution to creating minimum international standards at global level that guarantee better working conditions, more safety and fewer fatal accidents, in a sector that is very dangerous but also strategic.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament is calling on Member States to ratify the ILO Work in Fishing Convention (Convention 188).
This convention dates from 2007 and deals with important issues such as the fishermen's working environment, hours of rest and social security.
I have therefore voted against the present report, as this is not a matter that the European Parliament should involve itself in.
ILO Convention 188, adopted in June 2007, is a document that seeks to allow fair competition between the owners of fishing boats and to confer dignified working conditions for professionals in the sector.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the report by Mrs Figueiredo on authorisation to ratify the Work in Fishing Convention (2007) of the International Labour Organisation (Convention 188).
Finally, I applaud Mrs Figueiredo's initiative, because it aims to ensure that minimum standards applicable to all are universally applied, without prejudice to the existence of standards in individual Member States that are more favourable to workers.
There is, unfortunately, a real danger that even in Europe the fight against terrorism may result in failure to respect fundamental rights and freedoms.
I am hopeful about the statements by the US President-Elect, Barack Obama, regarding the commencement of cooperation on this issue between Europe and the United States.
in writing. - Conservatives recall their long-held view that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should not be justiciable.
In this context we believe that many of the issues dealt with by this report are properly in the purview of Member States and not matters on which the EU should try to impose a policy.
The report also contains a number of issues which are matters of individual conscience, for example, the implicit recommendation on euthanasia and the decriminalisation of hard drugs.
For these reasons, we are unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - (IT) My final vote against the report in question is the result not so much of its content, but of its omissions.
I support the rights of persons belonging to minorities, but I categorically reject the idea of territorial autonomy based on ethnic criteria and of minorities' collective rights, an idea which has sparked in practice ethnic separatism and interethnic conflicts.
In fact, the EU must respect and guarantee the sovereignty and integrity of its Member States.
in writing. - (PL) Although the desire to respect human rights is one of the mainstays of all states and organisations at international level, this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union 2004-2007 is a scandalous breach of those same rights in Europe.
Yet again, we have an attempt to impose a particular view of the world, expressed by the author of the report, on the Member States.
However we are also against EU control of fundamental rights.
I consider that the rapporteur developed certain subjects too much, as they have already been discussed in separate reports, and there are various fairly controversial points, some of which I have voted against as they clearly go against my principles.
However, there are many other points with which I fully agree, and for this reason I abstained, not only because I believe that the text was substantially improved by the excellent work carried out by Mrs Gál, but also because I could not under any circumstances, in all conscience, vote against a report in defence of fundamental rights.
in writing. - I support this Report which makes recommendations on a broad range of issues including discrimination, immigration, social rights and gender equality.
It notes that the recommendations of this Parliament in its report on CIA Rendition activities in the EU (Feb 2007) have not yet been implemented by Member States and EU institutions.
The fight against terrorism can never be used to diminish the level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Moreover, the Report urges Member States to take legislative action to overcome discrimination experienced by same-sex couples by recognising such relationships.
Member States with legislation on same-sex partnerships should move to recognise provisions with similar effects adopted by other states.
in writing. - I supported the Catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union (2004-2008).
In particular, I voted in favour of paragraph 32, which calls for the ruling by the European Court on the People's Mujahedin Organisation of Iran (PMOI) to be respected.
in writing. - (PL) The report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union 2004-2008 acknowledges that the effective protection and the promotion of fundamental rights forms the basis of democracy in Europe.
However, the Parliamentary commission notes that Member States have repeatedly refused EU scrutiny of their human rights policies and placed the protection of human rights on a purely national basis, thereby undermining the Community's credibility in the protection of fundamental rights in the international arena.
It is a catalogue of all the rights, privileges and exorbitant rights of ordinary law which, according to him, should necessarily be granted to minorities, especially if they are non-European.
It is an attack on our inalienable right to self-determination - which is granted to all nations except our own.
We are here to defend our own, the citizens of our nations, this large majority - for now - of Europeans who are in your eyes invisible, inaudible and contemptible.
in writing. - (PL) I voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union 2004-2008 authored by the Italian MEP Giusto Catania, as the author has not so much presented a description of the situation over the past four years as expressed his own opinions, suggesting and even attempting to impose upon Member States legislation that is exclusively within their competence.
In my view, this report, by using formulations such as 'reproductive rights', which in the present meaning of international law include abortion on demand, opens the floodgates to practices of this kind.
In addition to democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights is what we require of candidate countries, and we also emphasise the affirmation of universal, inalienable rights in our international relations.
However, the European Union will only be a credible global defender of human rights if in its own territory it uses unfailingly every instrument available to defend the values expressed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If we can help the millions of Roma to become full-fledged European citizens and members of the European Community in a spiritual sense, this will represent a giant leap towards the social cohesion of the continent.
in writing. - (LT) One of the fundamental freedoms of citizens in the Community is freedom of movement.
I believe that all EU citizens have the same right to participate in the political life of the European Union (EU), to freely express their political opinions and attitudes.
I believe that it is particularly important to guarantee the right of these citizens to participate in European Parliament elections in the country where they are currently resident.
Bearing this in mind, I think that once EU citizens are given the right to vote in European Parliament elections in their country of residence, this will only strengthen people's trust in EU institutions.
For these reasons I voted for the 45th amendment.
in writing. - (PL) I voted against Giusto Catania's report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union (2004-2008).
I voted against the report not because I am against fundamental rights.
It is because the demand for European legislation to fight homophobia or recognise same-sex partnerships are not fundamental rights.
In addition, some Member States disagree with such an extended interpretation.
in writing. - I voted against Amendment 103 in the Catania report, which proposed that long-term non-citizens should participate in elections to the European Parliament as well in local elections in order to promote social and political integration.
In fact, elections to the European Parliament are equivalent to elections to the national parliament.
To participate in them is the right of citizens.
in writing. - (FI) The different policies Member States have when it comes to ethical questions gave rise in the political groups, and especially in our own, to just the kind of wide-ranging debate we might have foreseen.
Opposing both at the same time I would see as a reality gap that could only result in undesirable consequences.
in writing. - (EL) The PASOK parliamentary group in the European Parliament voted in favour of the Catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union, but writes to point out that it opposes the wording of paragraph 49 and the related Amendment 35.
I am very concerned about the particular vulnerability of individuals from various minority groups and I believe that action needs to be taken, both at national and international level.
The report referring to the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union includes amendments that I have submitted, which I consider to be important for Romanian citizens (for example, the amendment on abolishing the labour market restrictions imposed on citizens from the new Member States).
For these reasons, I voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - I welcome this resolution, which maps out and summarises the most important concerns on the state of fundamental rights within the Union, and the recommendations it contains on how to improve human rights within Member States.
in writing. - The Catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union in the years 2004-2008 stresses the need to protect the rights of minorities, to fight all discrimination against all vulnerable categories.
I welcome this report which includes important elements drawn from Written Declaration 111 on ending street homelessness, which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2008.
Finally, the Treaty of Lisbon will not advance the situation concerning fundamental rights in the EU.
In fact, the European Parliament's refusal to respect the Irish No vote runs contrary to the spirit of the Charter.
in writing. - (DE) If the population of individual EU Member States decides to allow homosexual couples to marry, to enter into a civil partnership or to adopt children, other Member States should not be forced to follow suit.
The report presented by Giusto Catania is full of interpretations and recommendations of a general nature regarding the situation of fundamental rights in European Union Member States.
Although the two-year period of labour market restrictions imposed on the new Member States expired at the end of 2008, six of the Member States have extended the restrictions for Romania and Bulgaria for another three years, justifying the decision to extend the restriction period on grounds of the current financial crisis.
It accepts and welcomes all the reactionary principles and institutions which have been adopted by the EU, such as the four freedoms in the Maastricht Treaty, by trying to ascribe an effective dimension to their application.
It is based mainly on the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights accompanying the anti-grassroots Treaty of Lisbon, which is below the level of rights safeguarded in many Member States.
Finally, the lack of any reference to anti-democratic decisions and the prosecution of citizens, such as the ban on communist parties and other organisations and the imprisonment of communists and other fighters in Member States of the EU in central Europe and the Baltic, is revealing of the nature of the report.
in writing. - (EL) I voted for the report on the situation of fundamental rights in Europe, because I believe that it touches on one of the most basic problems of our unifying structure by engaging in constructive criticism.
The problem is exacerbated when the victims of such violations cannot react, mainly because they are locked up in mental asylums, care homes and so on.
Europe cannot remain indifferent in the face of this situation, especially where tightening human rights will help to consolidate the European area of freedom and security.
in writing. - (SK) The problem with the report is that it deals with many sensitive issues.
For these reasons I voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union 2004-2008.
I voted against the Catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union 2004-2008 because the report has gone beyond its mandate, making recommendations and comments which go beyond the 2004-2008 period, which it had to report on.
While the initiative of producing a report on the situation of human rights in the European Union is commendable and some of the points made by this report are even correct, based on what I have just said above, I voted against it.
In societies such as ours, this function is exercised primarily in the national context but, naturally, without prejudice to the ability to appeal at European level, which we have.
On the other hand, in this report in particular there is an undesirable confusion between what are fundamental rights and what are ideological options for the organisation of society.
For this reason, and because I disagree with much of the content, I voted against this report.
If I had been in favour of the 'no' campaign in the Irish referendum, I would have enthusiastically applauded the Catania report and its supporters.
I do not agree that the Member States damage the active role of defence of human rights carried out by the European Union across the world.
in writing. - (FR) There can be no European area of freedom, security and justice without the protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. - Mr President, I voted in favour of the report and I welcome in particular the inclusion of Paragraph 31 in the report according to which the European Parliament deplores the non-implementation by the EU of the judgments of the Court of First Instance on 12 December 2006 and on 4 and 17 December 2008 and the UK Court of Appeal ruling in favour of the People's Mojahedin Organisation of Iran on 7 May 2008.
The more appalling is the idea of one of its institutions acting against the Union's principles.
Such issues cannot be addressed in an arbitrary manner, but in accordance with the principles of democracy and the rule of law.
The EU cannot allow the global fight against terrorism be turned into a ground of political horse-trading and therefore must respect the aforementioned judgements of courts.
in writing. - (SV) I interpret paragraph 149 of Mr Catania's report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union as urging Member States to ensure that the equal treatment of patients within the health care system also includes addicts.
in writing. - (HU) The last two rounds of enlargement of the European Union, in which the Central and Eastern European formerly socialist countries were admitted, opened a new chapter in the Community's approach to human rights issues as well.
Since then, it has become clear that the protection of fundamental rights - and within these, the rights of national minorities - in the new Member States represents the greatest challenge to the European Community.
Giusto Catania's own-initiative report emphasises that in addressing the problems of the traditional national minority communities, the principles of subsidiarity and self-governance must serve as the guideposts that could allow the elaboration of policies aimed at resolving the situation of the communities in question in a reassuring manner.
The amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance concerning anti-discrimination, minority rights and social rights have been adopted either wholly or in part.
We were also successful in our attempt to include a reference to the need to take account of fundamental rights in legislation on criminal law procedures.
The Catania report maps out the problems involving fundamental rights and gives recommendations for resolving them.
in writing. - I was pleased to see the European Parliament support the removal of the PMOI from the list of terrorist organisations.
The rapporteur asked the Member States to reject arguments justifying violence and discrimination against women based on tradition and religion.
The report rightly condemns all forms of violence against children, such as domestic violence, sexual abuse and corporal punishment in schools.
The Member States fail to control practices in respect of human rights, thereby undermining the credibility of EU foreign policy in the world.
I therefore voted against the report.
Applying this could have consequences in terms of censorship.
The result of the final vote (401 in favour; 220 against; 67 abstentions) shows how deeply divided MEPs are on this issue.
in writing. - I would like this report to have looked more closely at the situation of orphans and disabled children in institutional care in Romania and Bulgaria, the newest EU Member States.
Specifically, I believe that matters concerning abortion and contraception are not matters for the European Union, but should be subject to appropriate legislation at the level of the Member States.
I therefore voted to abstain on this report.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against the Catania report.
in writing. - I abstained on the roll-call vote on paragraph 62 because I believe that every country - which the EU is not - should ensure that legislation on female genital mutilation is locally originated and applied.
I also abstained on the vote on paragraph 72 because I am concerned about the implications on free speech.
My decision to abstain on Amendment 54 is based upon opposing the EU's Free Movement of People and the principle of mutual recognition, and not in any way a reflection on my views regarding same-sex partnerships, which I agree should enjoy the same rights as others.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has just voted in favour of the Catania report on the situation of fundamental rights.
I voted in favour of this resolution as the ratification of the Convention will make a significant contribution to the promotion of decent labour standards worldwide.
It also supports the agreement concluded by the social partners on certain aspects of the working conditions of workers in the maritime shipping sector as it strikes a fair balance between the need to improve working conditions and to protect the health and safety of seafarers, and also because this professional category exists in Romania.
The resolution tabled by Mary Lou McDonald summarises the main points which the proposal for a Council directive on the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 and amending Directive 1999/63/EC must take into consideration.
The first step in establishing these standards must be to highlight the needs and problems which employees and employers in the maritime sector have identified, while also ensuring a degree of flexibility in their enforcement by Member States.
in writing. - (IT) We voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a Council directive implementing the agreement concluded by the European Community Shipowners' Associations and the European Transport Workers' Federation on the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, and amending Directive 1999/63/EC, as it consolidates international minimum labour rights.
That is important to ensure better working conditions and greater safety, while respecting the dignity of these professionals.
We therefore do not agree with the majority of the European Parliament on having included the issue of flexibility in paragraph 6.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm my vote for the resolution on the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (procedures relating to social dialogue).
I fully support the agreement concluded by employers and employees on certain aspects of the working conditions of workers in the maritime shipping sector, as it strikes a fair balance between the need to improve working conditions and to protect the health and safety of seafarers.
I voted in favour of the Andrikienreport on the future of the UN Human Rights Council as I feel that the EU needs a long-term strategy on the activity of this institution, which must become the main global forum for human rights.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against this report, because this UN Human Rights Council cannot by any stretch of the imagination be considered a legitimate institution.
I voted in favour of this motion for a European Parliament resolution because the respect, promotion and guarantee of the universality of human rights are an integral part of the European Union's legal acquis and it is one of the EU's fundamental principles.
I also voted for it because the United Nations Organisation and its UNHRC are one of the most suitable organisations for tackling comprehensively issues linked to human rights and the challenges in the humanitarian sector.
I believe that human rights and democracy are key elements in the EU's external relations and external policy.
in writing. - President, I was very pleased to vote for the Andrikiene report on the United Nations Human Rights Council since I welcome the fact that this agency has far greater credibility than its predecessor, the UN Commission on Human Rights.
The Commission was widely discredited due to several of its member countries having very dubious human rights records.
Welcome, too, are the provisions in the report which aim to assess coordination on these issues between EU member states.
Cooperation is vital to ensure that human rights are no longer sidelined as a foreign policy objective for commercial or strategic reasons.
This report reveals a certain dissatisfaction of the European Parliament with the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC), since the Member States of the EU represent a 'numerical minority', which, in its understanding, 'seriously obstructs the EU's ability to influence the agenda of the UNHRC' and to ensure its desired role as a 'leading force'.
The European Parliament neither is, can, nor should be a guarantee that human rights are not violated in the world.
in writing. - (DE) The EU claims to put human rights and democracy at the heart of its external relations.
This House calls on the EU to pay attention to credibility on human rights issues when ratifying agreements.
Instead of really working to promote human and people's rights and common values, the EU is at present apparently throwing away approximately EUR 15 million each year on a superfluous European Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA).
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report on the development of the UN Human Rights Council because, while recognising both the unquestionable achievements and efforts which have been made to boost the credibility and level of protection of human rights, I firmly believe that the operation of this body can also be improved in the future.
These considerations are necessary in relation to the debate on the United Nations Human Rights Council.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the Andrikienreport on the development of the UN Human Rights Council, including the role of the EU.
In fact, the EU, which places human rights and democracy at the heart of its own external relations, above all in the action it takes within international human rights organisations, has been committed from the outset to maintaining an active and visible role in the creation and operation of the Human Rights Council, with the aim of upholding the highest standards in terms of human rights, by sponsoring or co-sponsoring texts defining standards.
I therefore welcome the proposal by Mrs Andrikienė, which will examine the measures the EU can adopt to improve its influence in the Human Rights Council and give a new impetus to the Council, so that it becomes a more effective operational body.
in writing. - (PL) On 15 March 2006 the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution replacing the UN Commission on Human Rights by the Human Rights Council, an international support body to promote and protect human rights.
The European Union has given itself a very prominent role and is active in international human rights organisations, and was also active in appointing the Human Rights Council.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues support the work of the UN and the UN Human Rights Council.
The right to have access to the documents held by Parliament, the Council and Commission is a fundamental right which all citizens and residents of the European Union have (in accordance with EU Treaty Articles 254 and 255).
However, I voted against the report because, while the general framework is right, some of the features proposed by my fellow Member are unacceptable.
Parliament should also put its own house in order, though, and should guarantee maximum openness in all its facets.
in writing. - (NL) Explanation of vote on behalf of the CDA delegation in the European Parliament concerning the Cappato report on access to documents.
Today, the CDA delegation in the European Parliament abstained from the vote on the report on access to documents.
For example, in our view, the openness of Council documents should be guaranteed, but there is a clear distinction between documents for legislative and other procedures.
in writing. - (NL) I emphatically voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - The present own-initiative proposal by Marco Cappato requests that Parliament endorse the report on the implementation of Regulation 1049/2001, which deals with public access to documents held by Parliament, the Commission and the Council when used in their legislative capacity.
While the aim to increase transparency in the European institutions has my full support, there are three main points in this Regulation which I feel warrant further examination. (1) The vital protection of client-lawyer confidentiality is not sufficiently protected as it stands in the Turco judgment referred to in the initial paragraphs, and the call to apply it cannot be supported. (2) The individual processes whereby national governments reach decisions may also be undermined by removing consent required to release documents transmitted to EU institutions, and (3) These EU-wide recommendations do not take into account the different approaches relating to freedom of information in Member States.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the Annual Reports on simplified access to documents of the EU institutions.
There is no question that it should be made easier to access the various European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
In addition, they have a right to be informed about everything possible.
This can only be achieved through public access to the documents of the three institutions.
Finally, I welcome the initiative from Mr Cappato, because I believe that, to improve and speed up integration processes, the provision of information to the public ought to be a very high priority, in view of the problems regarding the absenteeism of Italian MEPs from the Chamber.
in writing. - (PL) The Treaty on European Union lays down that priority must be given to transparency and ever-closer links between the peoples of Europe and that decisions must be taken as openly as possible, and as closely to citizens as possible.
in writing. - (DE) I rejected this report.
in writing. - (SK) Based on experience in the Member States, the EU has started to recognise a real 'right of access to documents' and 'right to information' arising from the principles of democracy, transparency, public interest and openness.
In the interests of greater transparency, EU institutions should respect the principle of multilingualism.
This assists proper preparation for the elections to the European Parliament that will be held in June 2009.
