Croatia: progress report 2008 - Turkey: progress report 2008 - Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: progress report 2008 (debate) The next item is the Council and the Commission statements on: Croatia: progress report 2008, Turkey: progress report 2008, and Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: progress report 2008.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, let me introduce the debate on the progress reports on the three countries Croatia, Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Since the start of the negotiations, 22 chapters - out of 35 - have been opened, of which seven have been provisionally closed.
I would like to assure this Parliament that the Presidency will continue to make every effort to help resolve this issue and, in this context, we fully support the ongoing efforts of the Commissioner, Olli Rehn, to find a solution to allow us to continue with the accession negotiations.
We are encouraging both Slovenia and Croatia to work constructively in order to find a permanent and mutually acceptable solution as a matter of urgency, because it should not be just a prescription for more delays.
The implementation of the revised Accession Partnership is also important in preparing for further integration within the European Union.
The Council considers that the indicative and conditional road map drawn up by the Commission in its 2008 Progress Report is a useful tool.
The EU has made it very clear that the establishment of an independent, impartial, reliable, transparent and efficient judicial system is essential.
The same is true of the fight against corruption and organised crime, as outlined in your report.
The Union has also underlined that full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), including access to documents, is essential.
This also goes for legislation to improve the rights of minorities.
Efforts to improve good neighbourly relations must continue.
Let me now turn to the issue of Turkey.
Negotiations with Turkey continued during 2008, and a total of four chapters - as is almost a tradition - were opened during the course of the year.
Significant efforts will be needed in a number of areas, as highlighted by the Council in its conclusions of 8 December 2008 and in the Commission's 2008 progress report.
It is important that these commitments are now translated into real and tangible actions.
The Presidency shares the opinion of Parliament that Turkey needs to be commended for the progress achieved in the field of energy.
Besides the welcome amendments to Article 301 of the Criminal Code, which have had a positive effect, there are still a number of legal provisions that remain in place which could lead to restrictions in this area.
The law on the duties and legal powers of the police, amended in 2007, must be monitored closely in order to prevent violations of human rights.
The ratification of the Protocol to the Convention against Torture is vital.
Issues covered by the declaration of 21 September 2005 will continue to be followed up, and progress is urgently awaited.
Despite the fact that negotiations are becoming more complex as they advance, the Czech Presidency is committed to making progress on those chapters where progress is really possible.
Moreover, the Presidency puts emphasis on achieving progress in Chapter 15 on energy, in compliance with energy issues, because it is one of our priorities.
It is a dynamic country with considerable potential.
As far as recent developments are concerned, the early elections in June 2008 were held in several stages following significant problems both during the run-up, and on the original election day on 1 June.
The Commission's 2008 Progress Report is helpful.
Let me point out that, in its efforts, the Commission has relied on the negotiating framework, which is the very foundation of the EU accession process for Croatia, agreed by Croatia and all the EU Member States, including Slovenia.
By adopting and agreeing the negotiating framework, both Croatia and Slovenia agreed to resolve any border dispute in line with the principle of peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the United Nations Charter.
The Commission's initiative is, without doubt, among these methods.
We have unfortunately witnessed a certain slow-down of political reforms in Turkey in recent years.
Moreover, the new 'National Programme for the Adoption of the Acquis' and the appointment of a new full-time chief negotiator are also steps forward.
I am also encouraged by the fact that Prime Minister Erdogan and the leader of the main opposition party, Deniz Baykal, signalled their commitment to Turkey's EU accession process during their recent visits to Brussels.
The Commission is therefore very closely following the ensured existence of press freedom in Turkey.
I shall say a few words on Cyprus.
It is essential that Turkey proactively support the ongoing settlement talks between the leaders of the two communities in Cyprus.
I share the positive assessment in your draft resolution on the progress made by Skopje in implementing the road map towards visa liberalisation.
The Commission remains committed to making a proposal to the Council on visa-free travel in 2009, once the conditions have been met by each country in the region.
A number of steps were needed and, as a result of the appointment of two new ministers, some things have been put in motion.
Secondly, as far as the question of cooperation with the International Criminal Court is concerned, I would like to state clearly that I expect Croatia to take all the necessary steps in this respect.
We would probably have made more progress if you had handled these issues with more sensitivity.
The two sides must agree to move in this direction.
I would like to make one more general remark which also applies to Macedonia.
The bilateral problems must be resolved in parallel, if both sides - in this case Macedonia and Greece - are prepared to consider the issues.
This Parliament must give a clear signal that both sides in all these disputes must be prepared to move.
Mr President, I should like to start by conveying my heartfelt thanks to everyone who has contributed to this report.
I have submitted a critical, yet fair, assessment of the progress which Turkey made in 2008.
The Turkish Government told its own citizens when it took office that it is necessary to modernise Turkey.
This is why the political criteria are now central in our report.
This, too, has been included in the report.
Moreover, I very much appreciate Turkey's positive role in the Caucasus.
Mr President, EU enlargement is, at the moment, far less of a priority than in the years leading up to the major enlargement waves of 2004 and 2007.
Public opinion in the existing Member States is far less positive about this now.
This is, to a large extent, attributable to the differences in prosperity and to the level of salaries, differences that can lead to more labour migration from poorer to richer Member States.
As a result, many residents of those countries who gained easy access to the present EU Member States until 1992 are now finding it difficult to visit our countries.
For this exact purpose, Macedonia passed new legislation in 2008 at break-neck speed, that now turns out to be inconsistent with our prevailing views on careful democratic decision making.
If the accession negotiations with Macedonia get underway now, it will not be until 2017 at least when that country can join.
A further delay in the process brings with it two major drawbacks: the broad support within Macedonia for EU membership will crumble away, and the status of the candidate country will thus lose all meaning in future.
This is a considerably more positive attitude than that prior to 2006, in which Greece wanted to avoid any use of the name Macedonia for its neighbours to the north.
It is precisely in Greece's interest, much more so than the other Member States, for this northern neighbour to join the European Union as quickly as possible.
For this reason, a solution must be agreed by both states at the earliest opportunity.
The alternative is that both states continue to wait until the other state makes the first major concession, but this other state cannot be the only party to run diametrically counter to public opinion at home.
In 2011, Croatia must be able to be a fully-fledged Member State.
It should be possible to maintain the level of employment in Pula, Rijeka and Split.
As the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly said, Turkey is a strategically important partner and therefore we need a strategic partnership and not accession to the EU.
Therefore, we need to support the Slovenes and Croats in their search for a sensible solution to the border problem but, at the same time, to open all the chapters in the negotiations.
I would in any case like this wording to.... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I should like to make a few points with regard to the excellent report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on Turkey.
Admittedly, 2008 was a turbulent year for Turkish politics, and this turbulence will have stopped a few reforms from being carried out, to the extent that part of the process has ground to a halt.
Now that these problems in Turkey have been resolved to some extent, we hope that the government, based on plans it has tabled, will make haste to do what is necessary to keep the negotiation process with the European Union credible.
Turkey is of strategic importance to the European Union, not least on account of our energy supply and everything that is related to this, and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is in favour of opening the energy chapter in the negotiation process.
I should like to mention a few points from this excellent report.
Something that is of paramount importance, that we also want to keep repeating and about which the European Parliament should not leave anyone in any doubt, is that we will never accept the Islamisation of Turkey, and that ultimately we will be able to admit that country only on the basis of its secular character as is now enshrined in the Constitution.
We continue to believe that it will be possible to conclude the negotiations by the end of the year, in accordance with the original timetable.
I am glad that in the resolution, our expectations in the area of freedom of religion for Christian communities in Turkey have been upheld, including the right to teach, the right to train clergy, and also protection of the property of these communities.
Irrespective of the accession process, Turkey is a very promising and important partner for Europe in the areas of security and energy.
The efforts of the government of Prime Minister Erdogan and President Gul at improving relations with Turkey's neighbours have been the most important aspect of Turkish politics recently.
The stability of this region is still fragile.
I would, in fact, like to seize this opportunity to take stock of five years of EU/Turkey relations in this parliamentary term.
Looking back to five years ago, 2004 turned out to be the golden year of reforms that brought Turkey really closer to the EU.
It is strange, and also a little sad if truth be told, that since 2004, the rate of reforms has been too slow, that, in actual fact, the EU is now less willing to give Turkey a fair chance and that in Turkey, enthusiasm for membership has waned.
Secondly, concerning the Kurdish issue, there was considerable hope in 2007 that, following the accession of the Kurdish-nationalist party DTP, a solution would be found between the DTP and the AKP.
If this happens, I am convinced that our debates and those in Turkey will once again be filled with optimism.
Mr President, Commissioner, the progress report on Turkey and its evaluation in December concern whether or not this country has complied with the Copenhagen criteria and its obligations under the Association Agreement and the Additional Protocol to the Ankara agreement.
The objective of full integration, which is important both to Turkey and the European Union, is still the driving force behind a series of reforms and changes in Turkey's policies in order to secure the rights of all minorities, find a political solution to the Kurdish question, recognise the Armenian genocide and open the border with Armenia.
Turkey needs to comply with all its contractual obligations towards the European Union, as all previous candidate countries have done.
It refuses to open its ports and airports to ships and aircraft from the Republic and lift the veto on the participation of Cyprus in international organisations and, while seeking a role as a regulatory factor in the area, continues to infringe international law by occupying Cyprus.
We have re-tabled this issue with amendments, even though there is another resolution on the missing persons, following the recent statements by the Turkish soldier Olgkats about the execution in 1974 of 10 Greek-Cypriot prisoners who are still missing.
I see in your own report, Commissioner, that the Commission is concerned about the harassment of vessels conducting research for hydrocarbons in Cyprus's exclusive territorial zone by Turkish warships, and that in its conclusions of 8 December 2008, the Council urges the avoidance of any kind of threat, source of friction or action which could damage good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Mr President, in Paragraph 17, rapporteur Mrs Oomen-Ruijten calls upon the whole of Turkish society to practise freedom of religion on a large scale.
This is ample reason, Commissioner, to insist on the immediate scrapping of this section in official documents with your Turkish interlocutor. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although Croatia appears to have made satisfactory progress on adopting legislation to combat discrimination, I would suggest that before we praise the statements made in the resolution, we should check to see how the laws are applied.
I am particularly pleased about the fact that the resolution sends the clear message that the current situation after three years of waiting to start negotiations is very worrying and unacceptable.
When we discuss this issue in Parliament, I usually avoid mentioning the name dispute between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Today, however, having read a number of the amendments, I feel the need to emphasise very strongly that it is unacceptable to exploit whatever bilateral conflicts there may be to make it more difficult for a country to move faster towards European integration or to prevent a country's participation in international institutions.
I must say that the situation regarding Macedonia is reminiscent of a scene from an ancient Greek tragedy.
Three years ago, I was sure that at the end of the present Parliamentary term, we would be able to talk about success in negotiations with Macedonia concerning accession to the European Union.
Irrespective of the fact that this is a bilateral question unrelated to the Copenhagen criteria, it is affecting the political situation during negotiations with Macedonia concerning accession.
As rapporteur for this report for the Socialist Group, I can only express the hope that this question will be resolved with the interest of the European Union, Macedonia and Greece in view.
We also see very clearly the political will of society, the authorities and political groups in a country which is moving towards ties with the European Union.
Almost 30 years later, however, Macedonia naturally wants to join the European Union and share those same benefits.
I therefore regret that Greece is now considering applying its veto to Macedonia's membership over this issue.
I am known in this House and in my constituency as a strong philhellene and a friend of Greek and Cypriot MEPs alike, but I am also a member of the newly formed EP Friends of Macedonia.
Of more immediate concern to my electors who are suffering from enlargement fatigue is the scale of organised crime and corruption in Croatia, which the Government must truly make it a national priority to eradicate. (DE) Madam President, first may I clarify that I am speaking on the subject of Turkey on behalf of my group and not in my own name.
As Commissioner Rehn rightly stated here, freedom of the press is a core value in the European Union.
The new owner of ATV still has a great many questions to answer, there are calls from the highest offices for a boycott on certain media and the Dohan group has been hit with an arbitrary tax penalty of EUR 400 million.
Reports on increasing cases of torture and maltreatment in police custody are deeply worrying to us, especially where they take place outside official prisons or police stations, but of course, if they take place there, that of course also worries us.
In the opinion of the liberals and democrats, Turkey must reform its economy and society, politics and constitution irrespective of its accession prospects, in its own interest, in the interests of its people.
Moreover, I would be grateful if we held it in Brussels and not in Strasbourg. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of Croatia, well, those who speak on behalf of and were elected by the Italian public have a duty to point out their rightful claim.
Over 60 years have gone by since the historic theft of our property in Istria and Dalmatia.
It is primarily a moral issue rather than a political one, a matter of returning property to its rightful owners: 1 411 estates originally belonged to Italians.
As for Turkey, how can we think of calmly granting membership to a country that is at present imposing an Islamic veto, within NATO, on the nomination of a Secretary General merely because he represents a country, namely Denmark, in which the cartoon affair took place.
Turkey, an Islamic country, has called an Islamic halt to the nomination of a Prime Minister to the post of Secretary General of the Atlantic Alliance, for the sole reason that he is Prime Minister of a country in which Islamic cartoons were published - a liberal country in which obviously, by contrast with Turkey, it is possible to publish ironic cartoons about Mohammed.
Secondly, my thanks to the Czech President-in-Office of the Council and for the statement by Prime Minister Topolánek, who firstly pointed out yesterday that the dispute between Macedonia and Greece over names is a bilateral affair and should have no repercussions, and who secondly argued in favour of Macedonia's accession to NATO as quickly as possible, and hence for Greece to withdraw its veto - two very important points.
The only British party in the European Parliament that opposes Turkish entry is the UK Independence Party. (NL) Madam President, if nothing else, the negotiations with Turkey have helped the Commission and Council perfect the art of euphemisms.
The balance sheet of more than three years of negotiations is positively lamentable.
Full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, the call for which was reiterated, is on the right path.
So, if Slovenia stopped obstructing the opening of the necessary negotiation chapter on the grounds of these bilateral border disputes, which were not an obstacle to its accession to the European Union, accession negotiations between Croatia and the EU could be concluded by the end of this year.
The candidate country Macedonia has also made huge progress.
The purely bilateral dispute over names between Macedonia and Greece should not encourage Greece to enter a veto.
All that remains is to hope that the two EU Member States of Greece and Slovenia remember their own situation before their accession to the EU and conclude that they should act fairly and in a European manner towards their neighbouring states.
If, with the help of their neighbours, Croatia and Macedonia achieve the objectives I have described this year, that would send out a positive signal to the rest of the Western Balkan states that the EU is serious about the promise given in Thessaloniki about the accession of all the Western Balkan states, by which the CDU also stands Mrs Beer. (CS) I would like to make a few comments.
Secondly, as far as Croatia is concerned, I firmly believe that the accession talks can be completed this year.
As far as the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is concerned, it is unfortunate and demoralising for Macedonia that accession talks have not yet started in Skopje, despite the fact that it is three years since Macedonia obtained candidate country status.
What it also needs, however, is a modicum of international respect, including the right to its own identity and recognition of its own language and culture.
In fact, you could say that time is money.
Commissioner, two former prime ministers of Slovenia and Croatia, respectively, namely Drnovšek and Račan, attained a major achievement when they concluded an agreement concerning the border.
That would be a good thing for Slovenia, Croatia, the European Union and the Western Balkans. (PL) Madam President, negotiations with Turkey about accession to the EU are still in progress, although they should have been completed long ago.
It will be much better for Europe if Turkey does not become a member of the EU. (DE) Thank you, Madam President.
Conflict broke out recently in schools in Struga between Albanian- and Macedonian-speaking parents.
Instead of a pseudo-debate on democracy in Turkey, we need a real and open discussion on the place that religion can and should play in the social debate.
Let us respect our people and show respect for Europe! (HU) As chairman of the EU-Croatia Joint Parliamentary Committee, I would like to draw your attention to a highly significant development.
On Monday, the Croatian Prime Minister - and not only the Prime Minister but the President as well, and each of the parliament's opposition parties - agreed that the EU should mediate in resolving the border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia based on international law.
I consider it unprecedented in the history of the EU that one Member State should paralyse the enlargement of the Union and currently prevent 12 negotiation chapters from being opened, while back in 2001, at the time of its own accession talks, it declared that it had no border disputes with its neighbours.
Since the start of accession negotiations in 2005, numerous results have been achieved regarding the transformation of the judicial system and public administration, anti-corruption measures, minority rights, refugee return and regional cooperation.
The sensitive and self-conscious population was disappointed when a neighbouring, friendly country single-handedly blocked the continuation of the accession negotiations.
The Union is mistaken if it allows Slovenia to obstruct Croatian talks because of its bilateral dispute, even though Croatia has done everything possible in the interests of defending fundamental European values and adopting the acquis.
I would note, Madam President, that it is unfortunate - perhaps for those who are listening to us as well - that we are dealing with the fate of three important, historic countries at the same time, as if they were one and the same.
As far as Greece is concerned, the question of the name is not simply a problem with historic, psychological or sentimental dimensions.
It is an ongoing material political issue which concerns all Greek citizens and the European values of good neighbourly and regional cooperation.
I would remind the House that Greece consented to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia being granted candidate status for accession to the European Union in document, with an express commitment to negotiating a mutually acceptable solution on the question of the name under the aegis of the UN which would contribute to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, because without a solution, there can be no friendship and without friendship, there can be no alliances or partnerships.
In the case of Turkey, the message must be clear: the objective is integration, but it comes through fulfilling its obligations, consolidating democracy, respecting human rights and maintaining good neighbourly relations.
Within this framework, it is vital that it continues its reforms and moves steadily towards Europe.
As far as the dispute over the name is concerned, despite the fact that Greece has demonstrated a spirit of cooperation and realism, the government in Skopje has failed to respond.
That is unfair on Greece and does not facilitate the resolution of a problem which has plagued both countries for over 15 years. (SL) So far, I have endorsed all of the European Parliament's reports charting Croatia's progress on its way to fully-fledged membership of the European Union.
I salute Croatia's many new achievements on this occasion, too.
In this context, it seems important to me that, following a string of unsuccessful bilateral attempts, the European Commission has now, with its mediation initiative, offered an opportunity for a new and credible attempt to be made to reach a final resolution of the problem of the border between Slovenia and Croatia and, by the same token, to make rapid progress in accession negotiations with Croatia.
I am pleased to note that both countries have been receptive to the initiative and that talks have commenced at a high level.
I hope that the initiative will bring us much closer to a threefold victory: a victory for Croatia, Slovenia and the European Union.
I would remind the House that I belong to the generation which grew up with the slogan 'our borders are in Kyrenia'. (PT) The process leading to Turkey's accession to the European Union is advancing at a slow pace.
It is true that events such as the proceedings to close down the AK Party, the 'Ergenekon' case and the local elections slowed down the reforms in the country, but the appointment of a new chief negotiator will create a fine opportunity for the Turkish Government to accelerate the process of harmonising its legislation with European standards and to make progress in the political criteria in the negotiation chapters.
Firstly, it must continue to work constructively for a successful outcome to the discussions on the question of Cyprus, but this commitment must be shared by all countries in the process and must not be used as a pretext for blocking the negotiations.
Secondly, it must respect freedom of speech and thought.
Thank you. (NL) Madam President, I was one of the MEPs who voted in favour of Turkey prior to the opening of the negotiations, and to my mind, these negotiations are, in reality, an exercise in conflict prevention.
They are set to create a better social climate in Turkey, better environmental and health legislation and better labour law for Turkish people.
The freedom of opinion and the freedom of the press are essential, and torture and abuse in prisons cannot be tolerated.
The Kurdish problem also requires a political solution as a matter of absolute necessity.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Rehn on his position on the Oomen-Ruijten report, which was that it is essential for Turkey to proactively support the ongoing talks between the leaders of the two communities in Cyprus.
That is why we are in full agreement with the rapporteur when, in paragraph 40 of her report, she calls on Turkey 'to facilitate a suitable climate for negotiations by withdrawing Turkish forces and allowing the two leaders to negotiate freely their country's future'.
I declare that my name is Panayotopoulos and that I submitted a question about paragraph 6 of the framework for negotiations with Turkey.
Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, I think that the Commissioner has heard you.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, we have had a very long but important debate here today.
We therefore welcome the reaffirmed commitment of Turkey towards its EU path, as Mr Erdogan said, and invite her to take the opportunity in 2009 to prove this commitment and make further progress in its path towards the EU.
The continuing support of the European Parliament throughout the process is significant, in particular, given the challenges ahead.
At the same time, we should not take lightly the strategic importance of Turkey, in particular, in the current turbulent times, nor should we forget our previous commitments.
I think that Joost Lagendijk, rightly, said this.
I shall just mention that the Czech Prime Minister Topolánek visited Skopje yesterday and reaffirmed our commitment to the European aspiration of this country.
In other words, the EU can support any such solution that creates a united Cyprus respecting the principles on which the EU was founded and able to carry the obligations of EU membership.
Students, researchers and teachers who want to study EU institutions and policies in depth must be encouraged and supported in this. 2) Secondly, at the same time as supporting the rights of those belonging to national minorities, the EU must resolutely condemn actions by ethnic separatists.
The EU must support the strict application of the principles of territorial integrity and good neighbourliness with regard to Turkey, Iraq, Cyprus and the other countries in the region.
If and when Turkey engages unambiguously in establishing good relations with its neighbours, settling outstanding problems peacefully in conformity with the UN Charter and other European documents, then there is hope.
Furthermore, it is extremely important to bring about an improvement in the relations of Croatia with its neighbours and, in particular, with Slovenia, and to find a definitive solution to the question of the borders with other neighbouring countries.
I hope that it will be possible to reach the closing phase of the negotiations, perhaps even this year. , in writing. - (HU) Energy cooperation has emerged as one of the major questions in EU-Turkey relations.
The gas crisis in January has demonstrated more powerfully than ever the need for the aforementioned infrastructure.
I am convinced that cooperation on energy policy matters cannot be turned into a foreign policy weapon.
The Commission's annual report on the progress made by Turkey in 2008 as a candidate state is balanced.
The events of summer 2008 highlighted Turkey's strategic role, including in the energy sector.
The document emphasises the importance of close cooperation in the energy sector between the EU and Turkey, with the Nabucco project being a key element in this respect.
The expansion of the EU and the continuing integration of Western Balkan states into the EU are priority dossiers for Romania.
Romania supports the substantial progress made in the negotiations with Turkey, a process which is dynamic enough to encourage internal reforms.
in writing. - (HU) The Member States of the European Union should show greater solidarity and tolerance towards the accession countries.
The accession countries naturally must take greater strides towards guaranteeing human and minority rights, but current EU Member States must set a good example.
in writing. - (HU) The stabilisation of the Western Balkans and strengthening its ties with Europe is an important task, since the region is of geostrategic importance to Europe.
Moreover, we need to send a positive message to those countries in the region where, due to various external and internal factors, the timetable for accession is still uncertain.
Let us ratify as soon as possible the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia and with Bosnia and Herzegovina, grant full candidate status to all the countries in the region, and decide on a precise timetable for the earliest possible agreement on visa liberalisation.
The financial crisis has dealt a severe blow to the Balkans, and if necessary, the EU Member States will have to play a part in the stabilisation of the region, and we must provide assistance to countries in difficulty.
The EU must follow attentively the inter-ethnic relations in the region, paying particular attention to the sensitive internal situation in Macedonia, which currently runs the greatest risk of serious conflict in the region.
