Over the last five years there have been 40 actions taken against individuals found to be guilty of a total of 48 infringements.
One was for professional incompetence, eight for serious disciplinary offences and 32 other cases attracted a range of penalties.
Only eight out of 49 cases did not lead to a conviction.
Mr President, once again the state of Israel is trying to crush the Palestinian people and eliminate its leaders.
Once again these crimes are being committed with the unspoken blessing of the United States and the European Union, despite anguished appeals from President Arafat.
As you know, Rule 2 states that Members of the European Parliament shall exercise their mandate independently, they shall not be bound by any instructions and shall not receive a binding mandate.
It is rather flattering that the Council takes our reports so seriously and wants to discuss them in such a manner.
I take your point, but none of the political groups has asked for a debate despite the fact that they are free to do so.
You are of course correct in saying that none of the political groups has asked for a debate on the reports I mentioned.
Having said that, I believe that, at the very least, the Conference of Presidents should automatically include the reports on draft directives or regulations on Parliament's agenda.
We need to establish what needs debate because we disagree and because we need to explore further the issues involved, and what can be dealt with under a simplified procedure because we all agree.
I pledge my solidarity with the EDF/GDF, Air France and SNCF workers who will be protesting in Paris on 3 October, and I encourage anyone who wants to join them to do so in order to oppose measures taken against workers.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor.
I believe that, with due regard for Parliament's role, when we choose to engage in controversial debate just for the sake of it, we are not helping either ourselves or the people afflicted by these tragedies.
We are now in a situation in which the very same people who said that then are trying to block the whole Framework Programme because of an attempt by a qualified majority in the Council - that is, by quite legal means - to implement ethical principles that we should actually have laid down at an early stage.
If true, that would be a grave infringement of the rights and privileges of this House and a breach, in effect, of Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, since Parliament's last resolution, the situation in Iraq has changed both for the better and for the worse.
This is possibly a sign of a certain amount of nervousness on our part, even while there is hope of peace, in not sending an ad hoc mission to Iraq, and particularly in not setting ourselves up as a neutral arbiter.
It is this compromise that is disputed by the Council and we must all be unanimous, whatever our opinions on ethical problems, in denouncing this kind of behaviour.
Making Europe an area of freedom, security and justice is a very ambitious objective for the EU as a whole, but primarily a very central one, promising protection to almost 380 million people in fifteen countries.
What is evident from the report on Pro Eurojust's activities in 2000 is that those who work with the law in the different Member States do not always find it easy to work together efficiently, whether this be because of differences in the legislation or insufficient language knowledge in their specialised field.
Lastly, consideration must be given to the broad problem of the division of judicial cooperation issues between the first and the third pillar of the Treaty, which, in our view, requires the adoption of two identical acts, a problem which is aggravated by specific features of the opt-out protocols pertaining to Denmark, the United Kingdom and Ireland.
By supporting this initiative, the European Parliament has sought to respond to these questions, specifically this last issue of the dual legal basis.
The Commission fully acknowledges the rapporteur's efforts but does not subscribe to the 'bridge' formula laid down in Article 42 of the EU Treaty, which we consider to be disproportionate and somewhat unrealistic.
We take the view, however, that the most effective way of overcoming these difficulties would be to abolish the pillar structure in the Convention on the Future of Europe.
The Coreper of 27 June of this year reached broad agreement in principle on the third option, emphasising the importance that it attaches to the actions of the existing network and to strengthening its activities.
The Commission considers that, at the current juncture, this is the formula that best matches needs and which is most likely to achieve positive results.
The network has, in fact, already started to work along these lines.
The Council has adopted the Framework Programme on Police and Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters; the AGIS programme based on the Community framework model of activities designed to facilitate judicial cooperation in civil matters.
The Commission is of the view, therefore, that we already have programmes that are able to support activities to develop judicial training in Europe, in both the civil and criminal fields, which is a particularly important objective in light of the impending enlargement.
Thanks to the Treaty of Amsterdam, we have managed to create the necessary legal bases to implement a whole series of measures at European level making the free, secure and just Europe we all want to see a reality.
In 1999, the Member States, meeting at the Tampere European Council, stated that, in a genuine European area of justice, it must not be the case that the incompatibility and complexity of the legal and administrative systems of the Member States should prevent people and companies from exercising their rights or dissuade them from doing so.
In view, on the one hand, of the opinion expressed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which rules out the choice of a double legal basis if it involves procedures which are incompatible with each other and, on the other, of the importance and the objectives of the initiative, I believe that the choice of the direction laid down in Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union as a legal basis is the most appropriate solution.
Furthermore, the choice of Article 42 has an even greater significance, since it means supporting the communitarisation of areas which are still relegated to particular procedures.
This initiative will allow us to put into practice the will enshrined by the Member States in the said Article 42 of the Treaty and open up the road to the gradual communitarisation of the most important aspects of criminal law.
The form of terrorism that now threatens the world has no boundaries, no identifiable location.
Mr President, it is thanks to the reform of the Rules of Procedure that we are here today discussing a text which - as has happened on many, too many occasions in Parliament - will be adopted by the Council in a different form from that in which it was submitted, while we are denied the chance to debate the European Union's proposals on terrorism, which are much more important in terms of the rights and freedoms of the European citizens than the document we are now compelled to debate.
We must ensure that the Council hears what we have to say, rejecting a text which will never be approved and rejecting texts which are based on the intention to combat terrorism even at the cost of undermining the fundamental freedoms and rights which are at the heart of democracy itself.
The major political groups have decided not to discuss these issues, whereas a debate is necessary and would have yielded useful results.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Laeken European Council explicitly called for greater confidence to be established between practitioners in judicial cooperation, in order rapidly and for this purpose, to create a European network designed to promote the training of judges and magistrates.
In this way, the proposal that we are studying aims to guarantee cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Member States by creating a European judicial training network, which is intended to promote the coherence and effectiveness of training actions for members of the judicial bodies of the Member States, establishing links between the national schools and institutions specifically responsible for training professional judges and magistrates.
It is really two reports in one.
It should have been two separate reports but owing to Parliament's Rules, and also to time restraints and organisational factors, it is a single report.
Accordingly, the open coordination method must be used as a transition period towards a second stage where asylum is a full legislative agenda item.
We must put pressure on all Member State governments to integrate asylum policy, and indeed immigration considerations, into all policy areas as a horizontal policy objective.
I commend the work that Commissioner Vitorino has been doing in moving towards a common European policy on asylum.
There is no way forward other than for all 15 Member States to have a similar policy with guidelines that are not just similar but the same, and which are recognised and enforced by all Member States.
It set the end of 2003 as the deadline for the adoption of all the legislative instruments of the first generation of acts concerning European asylum policy.
The Commission is certainly proposing to introduce the open method of coordination into the field of asylum and immigration policies.
I wish once again to make it clear, however, that we do not consider there to be any incompatibility between the open method of coordination and the adoption of legislative measures on asylum at European level.
In fact, adopting legislation is an important part of creating a common asylum policy; the management of asylum policy can benefit from the open method of coordination, from convergence and from the harmonisation of the practices, measures and guidelines implemented by national administrations in the field of asylum.
I shall not hide the fact that not all the Member States are in agreement on applying the open method of coordination to the asylum policy.
The fact is, however, that the Council itself recently followed the guidelines proposed by the Commission to request the creation of a network of actors in the field of asylum with a view to exchanging information and to studying current practices.
There is, therefore, no contradiction between the open method of coordination and communitarisation, as generated by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and we even think that in the European Convention on the Future of Europe and in the context of the future Intergovernmental Conference, this compatibility between these two types of instruments must be demonstrated and emphasised.
With regard to the second dimension of the report: we will deal with the issue of the balance between internal security and the obligations of protection.
The Commission maintains, in the document that we forwarded to Parliament on the relationship between safeguarding internal security and complying with the obligations and instruments of international protection, that it is possible to achieve an equitable balance between improving internal security in Europe, especially following the events of 11 September 2001, and ensuring that the rights of refugees and other values that are crucial to Europe's democracies are protected.
Nevertheless, Mr President, there are some remaining concerns which we express in the explanatory statement, such as the excessive exploitation of the sense of insecurity in order to adopt restrictive or repressive measures, not only in relation to asylum seekers, but also towards immigrants.
Mr President, the Committee on Petitions receives petitions relating to the refusal of asylum.
Some are more important and more justified than others, it is true.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations on a common European asylum policy are proving to be tough and difficult.
Although we have done prompt work in this area, we have a right to be consulted and nothing more.
That would be the first step towards returning asylum policy to the intergovernmental level and towards asylum policy ceasing to be one of the European Community's responsibilities.
Quite apart from the fact that a majority in the Convention are convinced that asylum should continue to be governed by Community rules, we cannot and must not allow Parliament, which is the only European institution with any democratic legitimacy, to be shut out from the process of shaping a common asylum policy.
The second is the demand that it be ensured that applications are first examined by reference to the inclusion clauses of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, before any grounds for exclusion are taken into consideration - a deviation from current legal practice - and that accelerated procedures or admission procedures should not be used in such cases as a matter of routine.
Mr President, Mrs Klamt, ladies and gentlemen, what most worries our group is the lack of progress on the part of the Member States and the European Council in relation to asylum and immigration policies.
We believe that the current situation cannot continue and we are therefore prepared to support the European Commission's proposal on the open coordination method as a step forward on the common policy.
Having said this, I believe we must remember more that asylum is a right that our States grant to persecuted people - which is due to our States' and our citizens' commitment to freedom.
We are therefore - and I am now referring to the second part of the report - in favour of this asylum system functioning properly.
I believe that providing the best possible security means also providing the best possible measures for protecting these people.
I believe that the application of the Geneva Convention and greater care with the methods we have established, not in relation to asylum, but in relation to other types of legislation, such as the common definition of terrorism or the step forward represented by the European arrest order, are very important and, applied efficiently, should be sufficient to guarantee security without prejudicing the right to asylum.
Terrorism must not be given free rein within the EU and, on that question, we all of course have a responsibility.
We are familiar with the debate in Denmark, and we have heard the tenor of the debate in Germany.
The message is clear.
A common immigration policy is required in the EU so that the asylum system can be made more relaxed.
The objective of the open coordination method in the field of asylum policy must be that all countries shall fulfil obligations and endeavour to bring about improved standards and greater security, and that is a good thing.
Mr President, we would like to congratulate the rapporteur for having brought together two sensitive issues which many of us would prefer not to see linked since the question of security often provides a questionable alibi, feeding the prejudices of those who prefer to restrict asylum and develop a policy of deterrence towards those needing to exercise their individual and fundamental rights.
We also fully support conclusion 5 of the report, which stresses the need for an holistic approach towards asylum and immigration looking at this as a horizontal policy objective and considering all policy areas, particularly those with an external dimension, such as trade, development, environment and agriculture.
Mr President, the asylum system is under pressure and in order to solve this problem, we must give priority to a common immigration policy.
Many asylum seekers are knocking on Europe's doors.
How difficult it is to establish any common ground is clearly obvious from the negotiations in the Council on the concept of refugee.
However, the solution proposed in Paragraph 1 of the Evans report strikes me as misconceived for different reasons.
There is no easy solution to this problem.
This is a solution which will only bear fruit in the very long term, but it is the best one there is.
The exclusion provisions, which are very topical in the light of the events of 11 September 2001, also fall within the concept of justice.
Mr President, my impression - derived from item 1 as a whole - is that this report makes the serious mistake of confusing the sacrosanct principle of the right of asylum, which has been invoked and established on a number of occasions as one of the fundamental rights of the European Union, with the complex issue of immigration, which is, in any case, a different subject and should be addressed quite separately.
The rapporteur states - and I say this with the utmost respect - in the tone of the author of 'Alice in Wonderland' that there is no proof that the right of asylum has been exploited to help terrorists enter the Union.
I would like, if I may, to ask this question: since we know that thousands of potential terrorists and fundamentalists have penetrated the European Union - and we do not know how they got here, who they are or what nationality they are - how can we fail to draw the clearly logical conclusion that it is precisely the right of asylum that has enabled many of them to enter the Union?
The fact is that the drafting of mistaken asylum and immigration policies has contributed to the terrifying increase in xenophobic and racist reactions, which we can only condemn.
In fact, it is the Europeans citizens themselves who are hoping and calling for action that will add a European value to national policies, whose limitations are becoming increasingly clear, both in terms of security policies and of policies for safeguarding rights and fundamental freedoms.
We agree with him not only when he refers to the need for this legislation and to strengthen the Community-led approach that he mentioned, but also because this mechanism, instead of representing genuine communitarisation, is a process that denies the European Parliament an active role in this process.
It is also crucial that we create an equitable and effective asylum procedure, because this asylum procedure has frequently been the easiest means of gaining access to Union territory.
If the European Parliament wanted to show that it represents progress, at least on this point, it should make its position clear.
The Commission, however, clearly states in its report that it is unlikely that terrorists would ask to exercise the right to asylum.
The Member States are in fact trying to escape their international commitments by invoking exclusion clauses where a loose interpretation of these clauses would free them from their commitments, even though these commitments are fundamental with regard to human rights.
A European solution must also be found with regard to asylum seekers deprived of the right of asylum, who find themselves without any rights and further swell the ranks of illegal immigrants exploited by unscrupulous employers for their own gain, while these people live in inhumane conditions within our European democracies.
The only solution now would be to legalise their presence.
Let me make some comments on specific points.
Vote for that, and you leave yourself open to the question as to why the general standard of data protection in the European Union and in its Member States is apparently not sufficient to offer asylum seekers adequate protection against the misuse of data.
Mr President, Commissioner, we all know that the events of September 11 and the war on terrorism are being used as an excuse in several Member States of the European Union to block progress on an integrated European asylum policy.
The number of asylum seekers in the European Union fell by nearly two-thirds over the first 4 months of 2002, compared with the same period last year, having almost doubled over ten years.
Unfortunately, the Evans report, give or take a few exceptions, follows in exactly the same vein.
These figures are a disgrace when you think that the overwhelming majority of people seeking asylum in our countries are from places such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Turkey, Iran or other countries with serious problems.
The many different types of legislation mean that we must have an overview and I think that the proposed open coordination method between the Member States will help to draft higher standards in this area, whilst encouraging transparency, visibility and, lastly, evaluation.
It must offer all European citizens protection, and not a refuge from the fear generated by 11 September, this irrational fear which is giving rise to an overcautious withdrawal enabling some people to maintain their xenophobic and racist attitudes in the name of so-called pragmatism.
I must reiterate that, behind all these words, there are men, women and children.
The Commission considers that we need to exchange best practices, and to exchange information.
Under our proposal, Parliament will be joining this exercise.
Mr President, the report of which I am about to give a brief overview deals with the Commission Green Paper on compensation to crime victims.
This is certainly an extremely complex issue in legal terms, but I am glad to say that a major debate is developing on the matter with endeavours being made, first and foremost, to define the appropriate legislative instruments and identify the appropriate financial resources to secure what should be the basic right of a crime victim: to receive proper compensation for suffering and damages inflicted, especially where there is no perpetrator of the crime in that the author is unknown or is not in a position to provide the victim with compensation.
Moreover, we know that the number of cross-border crime victims is increasing, firstly because of the increase in the movement of citizens within the Union but also, I regret to say, because of a general increase in crime, particularly in major, very serious criminal activities such as terrorism, child abuse and the trafficking of human beings.
In view of this, the need to set minimum standards on the protection of the victims of crimes, in particular on crime victims' access to justice and on their right to compensation, was explicitly established as early as Tampere when the principal guidelines to be followed with a view to creating a genuine area of freedom, security and justice were laid down.
This initiative slots perfectly into the project of creating an area of freedom, security and justice within Union territory, within which all the citizens are guaranteed respect for their fundamental rights, irrespective of their financial situation.
The original legal basis is Title IV, Article 61 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which stipulates that the Council, in order to establish progressively an area of freedom, security and justice, shall adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters.
The Tampere European Council responded to this call by establishing minimum standards for cross-border access to justice, and we would emphasise this.
The Commission has taken a more courageous step, proposing to extend the provision of aid to internal cases as well.
It also gives us a welcome opportunity to invite those Member States - and there are a considerable number of them - which already provide guaranteed, appropriate legal aid for their citizens internally, to start to harmonise their laws in the field.
The report, which was adopted unanimously by the Parliamentary committee responsible, goes even further.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights has decided, on the basis of a specific vote, to complete the entire process up until the adoption or, at any rate, tabling in plenary of the report based on the text prepared by the Commission, in accordance with the most basic rules of the consultation procedure.
If Parliament were to accept the Council's termination of the process or a proposal for referral back to committee, this would have major consequences in terms of interinstitutional legal relations and also in terms of the consultation procedure, and would be a serious violation of the provisions of the Treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as other speakers have emphasised, protection and support for victims is certainly one of the key challenges we face in establishing the area of freedom, security and justice.
We passed an initial milestone in March 2001, when the Council adopted a framework decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings.
Soon afterwards, the Commission presented its Green Paper on compensation to crime victims.
I am very pleased to be able to note, in the report, the support given to our objectives as well as a detailed and constructive analysis of the various aspects covered by the Green Paper.
As you will have probably noted, the latest version of the Commission scoreboard on the area of freedom, security and justice already indicated that a follow-up will be given this autumn with a proposal for a directive on compensation to victims.
As far as the proposal for a directive on legal aid is concerned, the Green Paper published by the Commission in February 2002 led to a proposal for a directive being presented in January 2002 that seeks to establish minimum standards in the area of legal aid.
The Commission hopes that the directive will apply to all civil and commercial disputes, but the Council decided that its scope should be limited to cross-border disputes.
The new text, which is still far from being final, was forwarded by the Council to Parliament for information.
Above all, I must point out that Amendment No 6, which concerns the first paragraph of Article 1 of the proposal, is very clear on this point, since it goes as far as deleting the reference to cross-border disputes.
Unfortunately, I must say that there is very little chance that the Council will change its mind on this matter.
The news given us today by Commissioner Vitorino - and which the Commission communicated in good time - does not exactly give us hope, but our Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market must remember - and the draftsperson who I am replacing insisted on this - that, in the event that the Council introduces these substantial modifications, the Treaties lay down that Parliament should be consulted again, and Parliament is not prepared to give up this right, but rather is prepared to defend it.
Today, we in Europe's Parliament are giving our opinion on the Commission Green Paper on compensation to crime victims.
I adduce these examples in an attempt to show the quite different assumptions on the basis of which the fifteen Member States work.
That means finding and deciding on common rules for all, in all the Member States.
It is, then, all the more important to take the first step of laying down minimum standards for State compensation for those victims of criminal offences who get no compensation from their assailant or by other means.
In 1999, 250 million people did so.
The European Union cannot accept that a person may receive different treatment depending on the Member State within which they have been a victim of crime or depending on their nationality.
I believe that all the groups will be more or less in agreement with this report.
We must, above all, force them to take the necessary measures in terms of security and control in order to prevent this type of accident.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the exponential rise in crime, in which the European Union bears its share of responsibility, raises the problem of compensating victims.
In France, for example, Jean-Marie Le Pen had proposed to place, from the outset, the scheme for victims of terrorism in the same category as the long-established scheme for victims of war.
In this type of dispute, we are in favour of defining a minimum standard, or in favour of speeding up the ratification of the Strasbourg Convention of 24 November 1983.
The solution is to be found in adopting a single and simple European rule which could be, with regard to legal competence or applicable law, the law on the location of the crime, the lex loci delicti.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering two reports that form part of a set of measures designed to promote the creation of an area of security, freedom and justice in order to provide a useful response to the everyday concerns of Europe's citizens.
I congratulate Roberta Angelilli and Giacomo Santini, because both reports make it clear that the enormous challenge we face consists of creating a genuine area of justice, in which European citizens can see their integrity protected, enjoy access to justice and have their rights guaranteed regardless of the place in which they live and as easily as if they were in their own country.
The Angelilli report is concerned with citizens who have been victims of crime.
It is unacceptable that someone who has been the victim of a crime should be victimised once again because the system provides them with inadequate or non-existent protection.
The Member States must, to this end, promote the appropriate harmonisation of their legal and regulatory provisions, because it is unfair that, as a result of the profound disparities that exist, there should be unjustifiable differences in the compensation to which European citizens are entitled merely because they have been crime victims in one particular part of the European Union rather than another.
That is why it is so important that we should see the EU as being also a social community, one that does not deny access to the law to people who have been affected by such offences but have fewer resources at their disposal.
Both reports help us as EU citizens to have a positive experience of life in the EU, with all the principles associated with freedom of movement, which we can and must make a reality.
I have no legal training whatsoever but I have no doubt, as the Commissioner mentioned in his comments on forging together the chemistry of 15 countries, that mutual cooperation across the legal systems and judicial processes of 15 countries is very difficult to achieve.
In many States, as little account is taken of victims of offences of negligence as of victims who are unable to prove lasting or grave detriment.
Time and again, in my capacity as a member of the Committee on Petitions, I come up against cases in which compensation was either not paid out to victims, or it was at any rate unreasonably delayed, where even EU citizens in other EU States had applied for it.
The regulation on cooperation and enforcement in civil and commercial cases is already in place, as is judicial assistance between the Member States of the European Union in criminal cases.
And, Mr Cashman, you are quite deluded if you believe that this can only apply to cross-border trials, for if you were to establish a higher standard for the whole of Europe, your own people would blow up a storm, and if you were to create a lower standard across Europe, you would have to answer the question as to why you were treating the EU's citizens worse than your own.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the Angelilli report will take place tomorrow at 12 noon, whereas the vote on the Santini report will take place on Wednesday at the same time.
These 37 Members have since withdrawn their opposition.
Mr President, almost two years have now passed since October 2000 when the Commission tabled a very good proposal for a regulation on the permitted uses of those parts of slaughtered animals that are not for human consumption.
We have, in actual fact, also succeeded in arranging for all by-products not declared fit for human consumption to be indelibly colour-labelled and, when it becomes technically possible, identified by smell, too.
I must be allowed to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all those alongside whom I have been working within Parliament.
Mr President, I wish to begin by saying, on behalf of the Commission, that we very much welcome the joint text on the proposed regulation on animal by-products, agreed by the Conciliation Committee on 12 September.
The position we have reached here today owes much to her personal commitment, tenacity and determination.
Thirdly, that certain provisions should be tightened in order to improve control and traceability in the animal by-products sector.
It is very good that we negotiated this transitional period to 1 November 2006.
Yet she was vindicated the whole time by the saga of continuing food contamination scandals which went on in a number of Member States right through 2002 and in the way in which this matter has worked out.
The second area is the question of cooking oil.
Mrs Paulsen has showed us the way and it is up to us to follow.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, compromises are often the only things to come out of difficult situations.
It is now for the Commission to present a proposal on the recycling of food waste by the end of 2004.
It is as if we have almost forgotten that this was the main problem and that this is what was behind all the directives that we have been adopting recently in the field of food safety.
This is all well and good but there is, unfortunately, a down side, because although we have certainly made progress in eliminating food waste, I think that the obligation imposed on Member States is being partly deferred.
The outcome is a respectable one.
I am glad the Commission has acceded to this proposal and said that it will, by 2004, present a directive - and yes, Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, I too think it should be a regulation - on biowaste, in which it will lay down rules on all the possible uses of food waste, including its use as feed.
The debate is closed.
