Outcome of the European Council on 29 and 30 October 2009 including the mandate and attributions of the President of the European Council and of the High Representative of the Union for the foreign and security policy/Vice-president of the Commission, as well as the structure of the new Commission (debate) The next item is the European Council report and Commission statement on the outcome of the European Council on 29 and 30 October 2009 including the mandate and attributions of the President of the European Council and of the High Representative of the Union for foreign and security policy/Vice-President of the Commission, as well as the structure of the new Commission.
We need to act quicker than that, and so the Council noted that, in addition to this, we need global financing of EUR 5 billion each year from 2010 to 2012.
We were able to present our commitments.
When I presented the priorities of the Swedish Presidency to you on 15 July, I said that the EU must emerge strengthened from the crisis.
With this agreement in place, President Václav Klaus was prepared to sign the treaty, and - as you all noted - he finally did so a week ago.
The European Council also assessed other treaty preparations.
I plan to convene a meeting of Heads of States or Government on 19 November in order to nominate the President of the European Council, the High Representative and the Secretary-General of the Council.
I will not speculate on who these persons will be, but I would like to say that it is not just the name that is important, but also what they will be doing and how they will do it.
If we want developing countries to come to the table with serious commitments on mitigation, then we need developed countries to put money on the table.
Our assessment is that by 2020, developing countries will need around an additional EUR 100 billion a year to tackle climate change and this was fully backed by the European Council, as is the likely share of public international finance in that figure, and agreement that the European Union will pay its fair share.
The Swedish Presidency has done very remarkable work in bringing this final consensus to the European Council.
It is not for me to comment on the candidates for the Presidency of the European Council but, as Commission President and looking at the institutional matters, I very much hope that Heads of State or Government will select the personality that can provide effective leadership to the European Council - a President with a strong European commitment that can give consistency over time to European Council activity, both internally, so that priorities can be set over a longer timeframe and not just for six months, and externally, so that on common foreign and security policy, we send coherent messages to our international partners.
The Europe represented here today - a Europe united in freedom and solidarity - would not have been possible without the commitment and the dedication of people who made extraordinary things happen 20 years ago.
If we show the same dedication and commitment, I am sure we will succeed.
My thanks to Mr Reinfeldt.
What counts are the quantified commitments made by the states.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Barroso, perhaps it is a coincidence - although a happy coincidence - that this debate is being held immediately after the speech by Václav Havel, a man who has reminded us how important this process was twenty years ago.
I see in the Treaty of Lisbon an extension of this process that is bringing Europe together.
We need to make it clear that, particularly in this area, we will perform our duty and, Mr Barroso - I believe we can promise you this - although we want to carry out these hearings properly and carefully, we also want to reach our decisions as quickly as possible, as the citizens of Europe demand that we work and come to decisions quickly rather than spending months discussing various people.
The last point that I want to touch on is the financial crisis, which you have mentioned, because that is also something that causes us great concern.
It should be stressed that it is thanks to your determination that this was made possible; it is thanks to your sense of compromise that we finally achieved it.
Mr Reinfeldt, my group has three opinions to voice on this issue.
Firstly, this role must be that of a chairman, rather than a president, to use those two English words.
Therefore, what we want is indeed a compromise, but one that also reflects the composition of this pro-European alliance that drives Europe forward within this European Parliament.
Mr President, Mr Reinfeldt, Mr Barroso, I believe that it is precisely the recollection of the historic events of 20 years ago that has now allowed us to see the wrangling over how to implement the options after ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is a critical light.
The huge praise that various speakers have expressed for what we have achieved in the run up to Copenhagen is also something that I, unfortunately, cannot go along with.
If we look at what the Europeans have actually already done in terms of an efficient climate policy for reducing CO2 emissions, what has actually been achieved, the reduction targets we have set, the legislation in our climate package, none of that is sufficient to achieve the two-degree target that is constantly talked about.
Mr President, the Treaty of Lisbon has been ratified by all 27 Member States.
There are those of us here who will continue to speak for the people and to speak out against these institutions which, as the EFD Group has said before on several occasions and will do so again, are short of democratic legitimacy. (DE) Mr President, democracy needs a revolution, and it is never wrong, Mr Dartmouth, to speak out in favour of transparency, Mr Verhofstadt.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I thank the honourable Members very much for their many valuable comments and questions.
Although, to answer Mr Swoboda, it is clear in the treaty coming into force on 1 December that the High Representative goes directly into his or her new job, but has to be part of the Commission approved by Parliament.
They are very precise that, if we should go even further in Europe, we also need the same kind of commitments from other parts of the world.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on some of the issues that were directly put during the debate.
All of our Member States have ratified Kyoto, and we are in favour of a binding treaty for the future.
Most of us have fought hard to have this treaty, over many years, at least nine years!
I believe that it is entirely in our interests to have a strong European Parliament - and the Treaty of Lisbon gives it increased powers - but also to have a European Council with a consistent and coherent leadership over time, and a strong Commission.
Moreover, in accordance with the treaties, and I cite the Treaty of Lisbon - because we talk about it all the time, but we need to read it sometimes too - Article 17 of which states that it is the Commission that 'shall promote the general interest of the Union and take appropriate initiatives to that end.
Admittedly, the Council confirms that the developed world must reduce its emissions by 80-95% by 2050, but if we are to succeed in doing this, ambitious commitments are needed in the very near future and, to achieve this, we must resolve the issue of the financing of the measures in the developing countries.
Certainly, there are problems with the US and China and with other countries' ambitions, but there are even greater problems with the EU's position and our own ambitions.
He cannot be the political President of Europe, he has to be no more than an honest broker between the different interests of the Member States in the Council, and the minimum requirement for his appointment is that there is a consensus in the Council.
We know that this is an emergency, we know that there is no plan B, and yet, today, the negotiations are at a standstill.
In refusing to take account of the requests of the European Parliament and, in particular, of its Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the Council has assumed responsibility for something very serious: failure at the Copenhagen Summit.
The Commission should have reacted much more firmly, not least because of the unanimous protest - today there has been a cross-party meeting of the Italian political parties represented here - which represents the sentiment and the depth of feeling of our people towards this belonging, which is metapolitical, metareligious and cultural, in the sense of a great philosopher, who taught us with the important words, 'we cannot say we are not Christians'.
The issue of the nominations is very important.
I do wonder about something, however: studying the names that are circulating - for example, Jan Peter Balkenende, David Miliband and Herman Van Rompuy, to name but three - can it be possible that no one has noticed that all three regularly attend meetings of both the Bilderberg Group and the Trilateral Commission?
