Situation in Iraq The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Iraq.
The Council has arrived in Strasbourg and the minister is on his way.
The minister should be here in a few minutes.
I travelled there with the overall objective of signalling our continuing humanitarian support and solidarity with the Iraqi people.
As a reminder, ECHO has since 1992 and before the current conflict allocated EUR 157 million in humanitarian aid, mainly for health and sanitation.
This programme was complementary to the oil-for-food programme and, in fact, made ECHO the largest humanitarian donor in the country.
Following the outbreak of the conflict, EUR 100 million was secured overall for humanitarian needs, of which an amount of EUR 22.5 million has now been committed and is being implemented, mainly for activities concerning health and water.
My assessment of the humanitarian situation in Iraq is that it cannot be characterised as a humanitarian catastrophe.
No massive population movements have occurred and direct casualties as a result of the conflict have also, fortunately, been far less numerous than some of the initial estimations had predicted.
Nevertheless, there are very real humanitarian needs and the situation remains very fragile, notably in the main urban centres - there are more than two or three cities of importance in this respect - where the problem is still very much the availability of safe water and similar problems.
Safety is still a very real problem for people trying to go to work or return to work in Iraq.
According to the Geneva Conventions, it is the obligation of the occupying powers not only to restore and maintain law and order in all places under their control, but also to ensure that people have full and secure access to vital goods and services, and to make it possible for people to return to their work.
In spite of this, the international community, as such, has a duty to assist the victims of the situation, and the Commission has up to now approved humanitarian aid operations, as I have already mentioned, amounting to EUR 22.5 million.
The remaining EUR 77.5 million of the 100 million secured will be programmed, and decisions made, as further needs are assessed and identified.
I hope this will be a transitional challenge.
Under the oil-for-food programme the system was well organised: 44 000 local outlets running year-in-year-out provided 60% of the population's food requirements.
Concerning the wider political framework, the discussion at the UN Security Council of a draft UN Security Council resolution constitutes a positive step in bringing the debate over Iraq's future back to the United Nations.
We make a very clear distinction - for many good reasons - between the immediate response to humanitarian needs and the whole discussion concerning reconstruction.
They are very different.
Everything relating to reconstruction brings us immediately into the centre of political discussions about the structure and structuring of power in the new Iraq.
In the case of humanitarian aid, however, the immediate response can and should be handled as a much more focused activity.
This Security Council draft resolution has been tabled, as everybody knows, by the US and the UK to clarify how the occupying powers would like things to be organised.
It is supposed to run for 12 months, but then to continue unchanged - with all the provisions unchanged - if no new decisions are made to that effect by the Security Council, of which these two main occupying powers are permanent members.
The Commission's involvement in the reconstruction phase will naturally depend on the outcome of these discussions in the Security Council - this is self-evident.
At the informal ministerial meeting in Rhodes, the Council invited the Commission to undertake some concrete steps to start identifying possibilities for EU involvement in the reconstruction in Iraq.
We have therefore increased our working contacts with the relevant international organisations (World Bank, IMF and UN) with a view to taking forward jointly our analysis of the situation in Iraq.
The Commission has developed specific expertise in various aspects of reconstruction and rehabilitation from other crisis situations, such as Kosovo, East Timor, Afghanistan and Ivory Coast.
But, in any case, concrete decisions will need to be taken on the basis of an appropriate political framework and a solid needs assessment, and through a participatory process with the international community and the Iraqis themselves.
A final comment on the regional dimension: the Union is very well placed to offer a regional approach to stabilisation, which will be extremely important in the case of Iraq.
We need to continually assess how best to reinforce our political dialogue and role in the region.
Again a few days ago, a similar terrorist attack in Chechnya gave rise to a significant number of victims.
In my capacity as President-in-Office of the European Union, I should like to roundly condemn these disgusting actions, to express my profound sorrow for the victims and their families, to express the wish for ways to be found to break this tragic form of political intervention and dispense justice and to emphasise the urgent need for us to achieve conditions of stability, security and confidence; for us to impose the policy against blind violence and fanaticism.
From a military point of view, the operations have essentially been completed.
From a political point of view, a series of questions is being raised to which I shall refer in a moment.
From a practical point of view, the predominant issues are humanitarian aid and the safeguarding of security, order and the restoration of normalcy in the area.
Although the overall situation appears to be improving, the rate of progress is slow and it is obvious that considerable difficulties and problems need to be resolved.
At the present stage, the allied forces are responsible for consolidating security and providing humanitarian aid with the presence of Member States of the European Union; however, the assistance and support of the international community as a whole are needed for there to be a fast, efficient and operational return to normalcy.
The first priority, of course, is the channelling of humanitarian aid and the full restoration of order and security.
The European Commission and, from what I heard, Commissioner Nielson obviously referred to this, has already earmarked EUR 100 million, part of which has already been channelled to the area and an important contribution is being made at bilateral level by the European countries.
There are plans on the part of the European Union for a grant of EUR 250 million for 2003.
I would point out that, as long as the sanctions regime continues to apply, the United Nations oil for food programme, which was recently extended to 3 June 2003, continues to operate.
I should like to add at this point that, in order to deal with the humanitarian crisis, cooperation between all the agencies involved is particularly important, so as to safeguard access to the country, as is independent and impartial action on all sides.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, on the basis of its previous experience with regard to the reconstruction of states and areas - I refer to Kosovo, Afghanistan and East Timor - must and can contribute efficiently to the reconstruction of Iraq.
Its active participation can focus on numerous sectors, not just on the humanitarian aid I referred to, but also on replacing infrastructures, on support and the provision of know-how with the democratisation and restructuring of institutions, so-called institutional building, on cooperation within the framework of international financial organisations in order to find a solution to the question of Iraq's debt and, of course, on the political reconstruction of the country.
It is precisely the joint objective of contributing to the more general reconstruction of the country which is yet another point of convergence and reason for putting the differences which recently split the Member States on the question of Iraq behind us.
At the European summit in Athens on 16 and 17 April, the European Union confirmed its commitment to playing an important role in this direction and asked the High Representative and the Commission to examine this question.
Equally important, of course, is the establishment of a government which is representative of the entire population and the use of the natural wealth of the country for its own benefit.
We believe that the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, with its special institutional and organisational infrastructure and its political experience from similar situations, have a fundamental role.
A smooth transition to a democratic and stable situation will also contribute towards regional peace and stability.
Within this framework, we have repeatedly pointed out to neighbouring countries the need to demonstrate sangfroid and self-control and to contribute to the reconstruction of Iraq and to combating the humanitarian problem, with the objective of stability in the region.
Similarly today, attention has also been turned to the question of the road map for peace in the Middle East.
It is clear, as has been said many times, that the promotion of the peace process in the Middle East will have highly positive repercussions overall.
The meeting of the Quartet at ministerial level on 21 May is particularly important within this framework, given that the establishment of positive prospects take precedence and we urgently need to restore a climate of trust with the Arab world.
Regional stability and security will also help substantially to combat the problems linked with Iraq, and will also facilitate the reintegration of the country into the international community after 12 years of sanctions and essential isolation.
The issue of disarming the country must be settled definitively in accordance with the resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations and must be linked to the adoption at broader regional level of an overall and efficient policy for preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is often easy to agree on general principles, but it is proving to be particularly difficult to agree on specific solutions and decisions, especially when questions are raised of institutions, of international legitimacy, of arrangements which emerge after a war, of situations which have arisen objectively and need to be dealt with.
From the Presidency's point of view, however, I believe that we can summarise the priorities as follows: first we need to develop a pragmatic, global, cohesive European policy for post-war Iraq, taking account of the long-term aspects of developments in the Middle East as a whole; to clarify how we, the European Union, see the role of the United Nations in post-war Iraq; to help Iraq get over the problems it has been through and to set up conditions of peace, security, acceptance, dignity and prosperity for the Iraqi people; to implement the principles we accepted in our joint decisions at recent Councils; and to promote regional stability and cooperation by supporting the peace process in the Middle East.
These priorities do not mean that we do not face problems and dangers.
I shall refer specifically to just some of these dangers.
A second issue is the difficulty in agreeing on subsequent measures and subsequent decisions by the Security Council.
Fourthly, the differences between the European states, although I believe that, on the issues of the post-war phase, these phenomena will be far less acute.
There is close contact between all sides without exception, which is helping us, on the one hand, to prevent splits in contacts between the Member States and, on the other hand - and these intentions are indicative - to reach agreements despite any differences, to have open lines, to see as a matter of priority where there are bridges and how we can make use of them.
This shows once again that the challenges posed by terrorism do not just affect the Americans, they affect us all, and the lesson we should learn from this appalling terrorist attack in Riyadh should be that we need to join together to fight terrorism resolutely throughout the world.
The European Parliament - well my group at least, but I think this also applies to the other groups - will be considering very carefully what further progress can be made towards a peaceful solution in Chechnya.
No, we must treat this crisis as an opportunity to be seized and make sure that in future we do better than with the Iraq crisis and the Iraq war.
Above all, we need to make sure that before one Member State or a number of Member States adopt a national position and then go public, we should discuss our respective standpoints within the European Union so that we can arrive at a common position.
The Maastricht Treaty already stipulates that before Member States who are members of the Security Council vote, they should first consult with their partners in the European Union, and that is the lesson we should learn from the past few weeks.
No, it is up to us to act in unison.
We are bound to have a strong interest in civil order being swiftly re-established, and when we are talking about the relationship between the European Union and the Arab Islamic states we often say that there cannot and must not be any clash of civilisation, and the same of course applies to order in Iraq.
I believe that the European Union has an important role to play here, and on behalf of my group I welcome the fact that you have been to Iraq, Commissioner Nielson.
It is of course very difficult to say at this point here in the European Parliament whether the United Nations is to be given an exclusive role, and what role we as the European Union and others are to play - NATO perhaps, and the United States and the United Kingdom as the two powers that intervened there.
In conclusion, let me say this: we do of course have questions for our American friends and partners.
So far, no weapons of mass destruction have been found.
With regard to the reconstruction process and the debate under way in the Security Council, I would like firstly to point out that, according to international law, we are in a de facto situation, in which there is a coalition which is acting as an occupying power in occupied territory.
It is the case that, according to Articles 11, 12 and 13 of the Treaty, we are obliged to coordinate our positions.
But it is odd that we are able to coordinate them amongst Europeans and with others, in the Middle East Quartet and even with the Arab League, but the same principle is not applied in the Security Council.
It is therefore very important that the agreement reached in Athens on 16 April is now applied, but within the framework of international law.
I would like to reiterate, on behalf of my group, that Iraqi oil and its exploitation belongs to the Iraqi people.
Oil - as we have seen too often - is a poisoned gift and there must be genuine respect for its use and the right to access to resources for the Iraqi people.
Finally, Mr President, please allow me to refer to the situation in the Middle East.
Mr President, although many of us opposed the basis for the recent war with Iraq, we can unite in rejoicing at the fall of the brutal dictator Saddam Hussein.
The informal meeting of foreign ministers leaves me cautiously optimistic.
I welcome the proposals from the Commission and the Greek Presidency to guide our action in post-war Iraq.
My group favours an active role for Europe in rebuilding Iraq, but for that we need the legitimacy which can come only from another UN resolution.
Our foreign ministers have demanded a 'central' role for the United Nations.
A vital or central role for the UN also means readmitting Hans Blix and his weapons inspectors to verify what has happened to the weapons of mass destruction which remain unaccounted for.
Their existence and the claim that they could be used within 45 minutes were central to the case for war.
The weapons inspectors have the international legitimacy and credibility to complete the job they were asked to do, in cooperation with American and British forces on the ground.
The tragic events of Monday night in Saudi Arabia remind us of the continuing instability in the region.
That is why my group welcomes the visit of Colin Powell, marking the re-engagement of the United States in the peace process.
For lasting peace in the region and a successful rebuilding of Iraq, we must simultaneously take forward the Quartet's roadmap for peace in Israel and Palestine.
That is what seems to be indicated by the majority decision of this House not to conclude this debate with the adoption of a resolution.
This petty decision would be rather trivial if it did not reflect a much deeper, serious defect of the European Union, namely its inability to define its identity and defend it with vigour.
All this, while the supposed motive for the war - the accumulation of weapons of mass destruction, of which George Bush, Tony Blair and José Maria Aznar all have irrefutable proof, of course - is running out of credibility.
Our second priority must therefore be to make an active commitment to ensuring the effective implementation of the Middle East roadmap.
Finally, we must all help to determine where the mad venture of pre-emptive war will lead us if Europe does not manage to muster the political will to do all in its power to nip it in the bud.
The fight against terrorism and against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is vital.
I reiterate today, Mr President, for the third time, the request by my group for Parliament's first major, in-depth debate on the new strategic doctrine published by George Bush on 20 September.
Our own roadmap could consist of seeking to meet this expectation.
We all recall the presentations by Tony Blair and Colin Powell in the United Nations, where they produced hard evidence of the existence of these weapons of mass destruction.
The UN weapons inspectors are the only ones who can demonstrate that Iraq is free of weapons of mass destruction, but they are also the only ones who will very probably demonstrate that Bush and Blair were wrong when they started this war because there were supposed to be weapons of mass destruction.
The establishment of a tribunal, sorely needed for processing the criminal past, is only possible with the help of the United Nations.
But let us also be clear: the European Union itself can only function at full power whether we are talking of humanitarian aid or of reconstruction within a framework that has been legitimised by the United Nations and as an equal partner of the US and not as a subcontractor.
The EU from a sense of duty, some Member States because they have no wish for a second conflict with the United States and because they want their share.
The road to a European Union common foreign policy runs via New York, via the United Nations.
Only with a UN mandate will the EU be able to put its - not insignificant - capabilities to use in building up Iraq and returning the government to the Iraqi people.
Mr President, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the Greek Presidency and Commissioner Nielson for the very fine statements that they made here this morning, and to my Parliamentary colleagues for the very enlightening statements they have made as well.
Two meetings of Iraqi political leaders have now taken place.
This administration will then work to promulgate a new constitution for the people of Iraq and deal with other long-term government issues.
The United Nations must play a central role in the reconstruction of Iraq.
It would be very unfair to the civilian population of Iraq to allow questions of principle to prevent effective United Nations engagement with immediate needs.
The overriding aim must be to set aside past divisions and focus on what must and can be done to help the Iraqi people at this time.
The European Commission has already dispatched a needs-assessment mission to Iraq.
This latter issue is one very important matter which must be given urgent political consideration.
The European Union should engage in the reconstruction of Iraq and in a situation where the United Nations is at the centre of this effort.
The use of Iraq's oil revenues must also play a key part in the actual reconstruction of Iraq, but any use of such monies must be undertaken in the best interests of the Iraqi people, who must play a role in any such decisions as fully and as early as possible.
A central role for the United Nations would confer real legitimacy on whatever interim arrangements are put in place in Iraq.
If we had had qualified majority voting on the Iraq issue, neither the British nor the French policy would have obtained majority support.
Only through the rule of law can terrorism and dictatorship be brought effectively to an end.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether this is the tenth, fifteenth or twenty-fifth debate on the situation in Iraq in this House, in this institution.
The Commissioner did say one important thing, however, with which I fully agree.
We must realise this if nothing else, for there are other problems in Iraq which are much more difficult to resolve than a humanitarian emergency which the Commission is quite capable of managing.
Mr President, 172 troops - 34 British and 138 American - gave their lives for the cause of Iraq's freedom during the war.
Throughout the debates that we have had on the Iraq crisis, I have made it clear that for us war was always a last resort.
The road map to peace sponsored by the Quartet offers a solid basis for a resolution of this most difficult of issues in the Middle East: the parties in the wider region, the blueprint for a lasting peace, a secure Israel whose right to exist is recognised by the Arab world, and a Palestinian state living side by side with Israel in harmony and peace.
The European Union has demonstrated that it is incapable of speaking with a single voice, whilst some Member States have shown more interest in creating a counterweight to the United States, than in building a genuine transatlantic partnership based on common values.
The actions of the gang of four at the Brussels summit last month clearly show the strategic error they are making in trying to divide the transatlantic alliance.
New structures and new military headquarters in competition with the United States would fracture an alliance that has served us well in Europe.
I hope that Europe has learned a lesson from this crisis.
There is no legal basis in international law for the attacking forces' additional objective of overthrowing the regime of the dictator Saddam Hussein, nor is there any such provision in the Charter of the United Nations.
The USA's unilateral war against Iraq achieved its objective of removing Saddam Hussein's regime.
Among the questions that remain to be answered, Mr President and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are when this war will end and when the end of the war will be declared.
If the Americans are not prepared to tell us what the position on weapons of mass destruction is, then we in Europe should at least tackle them and demand a statement. (Applause) Mr President, I visited Iraq 12 days ago.
I spent 8 days in the south, reviewing the public health situation in my capacity as the World Health Organisation's Special Envoy.
I met with 50 tribal leaders, upwards of 20 000 Marsh Arabs, and I reviewed and inspected extensively hospitals and primary health clinics in Basra, Al-Amara and other smaller towns and villages.
I re-opened the World Health Organisation Office and I set up a clinic now dealing with 15 000 medical consultations a month.
A trade in human flesh, a cruel bargain with Saddam Hussein - for Saddam owned the Iraqi people's every movement from tear-sodden cradle to early and unquiet grave.
These systems are still intact and throttling the Iraqi people.
The coalition forces are doing fine work, particularly in the south and in delivering public health to the people of Iraq.
Patience is needed, as is the continuing security provided by the coalition forces, to give the Iraqi people the time and space they need to unravel the evil web Saddam wove so skilfully around them.
The war against Iraq, based on the falsehood that weapons of mass destruction were present in the country, US militarisation and the principle of pre-emptive, indefinite war, has endangered the whole human race, forcing us to live in fear of terrorist crimes and the suffering they cause.
We must build and rebuild our relations with the USA, with the countries of the world, with due respect for human and civil rights, pursuing justice and rejecting double standards, as in the case of the Israeli occupation of Palestine.
Saddam Hussein has vanished into thin air, and, I, together with the Iraqis, can only rejoice, but the situation is unstable and the occupying forces must be replaced by an Iraqi government which includes women and is coordinated by the United Nations.
And I would draw attention to the fact that the majority of the future occupiers are members of the European Union: the United Kingdom, Poland, Italy, the Spanish State, while the European Union is absent.
Quite the contrary: the United States - the extreme right governing there - is working against the European Union as a body with a presence in the world.
We are witnessing an unacceptable situation which this Parliament must condemn on behalf of the citizens of Europe who demonstrated against it.
He wants to turn the Spanish State into a new Puerto Rico.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, all possible humanitarian assistance must be provided, of course; but above all, if this assistance is to be effective, the political presence of the European Union and the United Nations is needed.
Mr President, on behalf of the citizens of Iraq, we thank God that Saddam's reign of terror has been brought to an end.
With these same newcomers to the Iraqi political stage we are seriously concerned about the continuing lack of public safety in the capital Baghdad.
Saddam's hand in this - his amnesty for almost 100 000 criminals just before the start of the military intervention by the Americans and the British - does not discharge the Americans in particular of their responsibility to provide for law and order in the administrative centre of the country.
Washington's diplomatic efforts to contain religious radicalism in the region likewise deserve European backing.
Following 11 September, a relentless war was launched against Islamic terrorism by a coalition that consisted of almost the entire international community.
In order to gather the international community together again around the urgent need to combat a form of terrorism that threatens us all, our immediate aim must not be to decide who to punish and who to reward, it is to prevent the situation in Iraq from deteriorating and ensuring that the military occupation is replaced as soon as possible with new Iraqi authorities who draw their legitimacy from the recognition accorded to them by the international community.
Re-establishing food supplies for people who have suffered under a long and cruel dictatorship and 12 years of embargo, Mr President, certainly cannot wait.
I am sorry that Mr Wurtz is not present in the House as his country is contributing EUR 10 million in humanitarian aid, according to the figures of 13 May 2003.
The United States, Mr President, has proposed an ambitious free trade agreement with the countries of the region.
Minister, the next informal meeting due to be held in Crete on 26 and 27 May should serve as a unique opportunity to develop the role the European Union must play in this difficult situation.
Mr President, I have to say that I am surprised at how little has been said in this debate about the fact that a people has been liberated, that freedom reigns where terror once did and that Shia clerics are now able to return to Iraq in an atmosphere of religious toleration where once they were murdered.
The wishes and needs of the Iraqi people should be paramount.
It lifts sanctions: how many people in this Chamber have been calling for that over the last few years?
It sets up a process to wind up the 'Oil for Food' programme while ensuring that oil can only be sold for the benefit of the Iraqi people and it creates a new fund for the reconstruction and humanitarian needs of Iraq which involves the IMF and the World Bank.
There are of course many problems to be dealt with.
Bush and Blair of course are disinclined to give the members of the anti-war coalition a leading role and to allow them to benefit from juicy reconstruction contracts.
But only the UN can end the sanctions and in particular open the door to substantial international contributions and judge with authority whether the new Iraqi Government is truly representative.
The European Union can and must make a humanitarian contribution, a very important one in fact: special attention to women and children, but also to the construction of a democratic constitutional state.
Mr President, the chairman of our group has already covered what I wanted to say.
In relation to the proposal mentioned by several speakers, this UK-, US- and Spanish-backed proposal for a UN resolution would put the administration of Iraq, including decisions on its oil reserves, into the hands of the invaders and occupying forces.
Some people today have mentioned women's rights within Iraq.
The question is not how to rebuild, but to what extent we will destroy Iraq, humiliate the Arab people and heighten their anger to play into the hands of the ideologists who want at all costs to provoke a general war between civilisations, which will be a war against civilisations, beginning with what is left of our own.
Mr President, the situation in Iraq now presents us with the extremely difficult task of determining how the transition process will be legitimised and guided after the end of the war towards the free, democratic system founded on political, religious and ethnic diversity that we all wish to see.
Lastly, it is said that the interim administration will be managed by the occupying powers, together with the Iraqi people and a UN coordinator.
Since the European Union is the closest entity in geopolitical terms, it would be truly absurd for it not to be involved in a process which is so important for the future of the region.
This ethno-religious situation must be evaluated with extreme care, but Europe cannot now stand by and do nothing in the face of the terrifying scenes heralded by the Al Qaeda's resumption of its strategy of terror.
The stabilisation of Iraq, with measures to ensure religious peace between the different ethic elements, is clearly necessary in a region such as the Gulf where the insidious web of Islamic terrorism is so desperately strong and has penetrated so very deep.
I would like to say at this point, however, that we do support a central role for the United Nations, for one simple reason: if you are administering a foreign country, you need to have legitimacy under international law.
All the economic and financial sanctions imposed against Iraq in 1990 should be lifted immediately.
I regard the debate about exactly what is meant by a central United Nations role in the reconstruction of Iraq as being a somewhat artificial one.
In a country where civil order has broken down, and where the basic structures of a functioning administration still need to be set up, where the regime has left behind an appalling legacy of hardship and violence and the most basic things are lacking, it is essential to focus on humanitarian assistance and its coordination.
This is an area where the European Union has a greater part to play, and I support the ECHO programme already under way.
Mr President, I am not a particular friend of the Bush government, but I would take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the Americans and the coalition for the military action in Iraq.
The terrible consequences for the whole of the Middle East foreseen by some in this plenary did not arise.
I am confident that they share this view, and it is my hope that the United Nations will play the dominant role in post-war Iraq.
Besides, they all, including the European Union, agreed in Prague on the preventive strike.
The UN must decide even at this late stage on strict sanctions against the invaders and must supervise payment of the compensation.
And finally, for the Iraqi people to be left free to take its fate in its own hands without conquerors.
We owe them our solidarity.
Mr President, I regret the fact that this debate is not to be followed by a resolution, as it is vital for Parliament to send a political signal to the general public regarding this serious international crisis triggered off by the United States' warmongering diplomacy.
The threat is very real and seems to be being overlooked in this Chamber.
It is therefore up to this enlarged Parliament, including the observers from the new Member countries, to realise that the European Union must propose a more mature, more long-term alternative in light of the United States' opportunistic and mercenary calculations.
On 10 April, by a majority of three-quarters, Parliament adopted a resolution on the new European security and defence architecture, desirable at the end of this war.
This very broad consensus does not come as a surprise as even the latest Eurobarometer polls indicate that 71% of EU citizens are currently in favour of the development of a common policy in this area.
Just as Mr Sharon cannot claim, thank goodness, to speak for the whole of Israel, nor can Abu Mazen - unfortunately - claim at present to represent the whole of Palestine.
We Spaniards lived for over 20 years under a dictatorship directly supported by the United States.
The rhetoric on which the Danish Government's endorsement of the United States is based is so absurd that only a major ironist could expose it, as my fellow MEP did so brilliantly, it being understood that what is so surreal about this debate is that the EU has no common foreign policy and that this Parliament would in any case have no influence over such a policy.
I was among those who were opposed to the war, but I cannot refrain from expressing deep satisfaction at the fact that a people that has lived under oppression for so long is now being given the opportunity to build its own future.
The United States went into Iraq on the basis of arguments concerning Iraq's alleged possession of weapons of mass destruction and links with Al Qaeda.
The Bush administration has already distributed multi-billion dollar contracts for the reconstruction of Iraq to American companies.
Only a UN mandate can give legitimacy to the reconstruction of Iraq.
The basis on which we ourselves are entitled to make agreements has been established precisely in order to create stability and predictability in relations between our states.
The difficulties also have to do, of course, with the division between the Member States before and during the war.
I read in Scandinavian newspapers that individual Member States, such as Denmark, are preparing to contribute to the long-term reconstruction.
I would therefore call upon both the Presidency and the Commission immediately to devise such a proposal so that the EU can regain a portion of its reputation and, above all, play that central role in international politics and in this region that the situation demands.
We must also condemn a second falsehood, which claims that the United Nations has failed and that, as a result, the reconstruction of Iraq and its oil - which some call the spoils of war - should be a matter for the victors.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, however strange it may sound, I do not feel there is any point in taking advantage of and squandering the 3 minutes at my disposal to make you suffer by repeating everything that has been said to saturation point in this Chamber on the tragedy in Iraq over the last few months.
That is why I shall also confine myself to one question which, in my opinion, needs to be asked as a matter of priority now by the European Parliament, the elected representative body of the peoples of Europe, to whom we have to answer for our judgments and decisions and who are interested and ultimately entitled to have at least one answer as regards the pretexts which the leadership of the war coalition used primarily in order to justify its actions and persuade or deceive international and, in particular, European public opinion.
What, in other words, was the specific outcome of the attack on Iraq and the triumphant military victory over the regime of Saddam Hussein, as regards the location and neutralisation of the banned Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, the establishment of a democratic and representative Iraqi government and the elimination of international terrorism and, in particular Al Qaeda?
The third element is the effort and the positions to protect the cultural heritage of Iraq; this too is positive and I hope there will not be some people, in a few years' time, who maintain that the stolen exhibits are in various museums, just as the Acropolis marbles are in the British Museum, and that these antiquities or cultural monuments are better protected than they were in the countries in which they originated.
The only body that can resolve the problem and restore international relations where they need to be restored is the United Nations Organization.
I hope that the experience and problems will lead us to more positive thoughts, will lead the leadership of Europe to more positive prospects.
We 25 came here with an understanding of democracy, freedom and rights.
Mr President, the success of the US operation in Iraq and the speed with which the objective of liberating the country from the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein was achieved, with a relatively low toll of victims, are confirmation of what many had thought, namely that the war was going to be the least difficult part of this operation.
The attack in Riyadh - which is already giving some people, not least in this House, a perverse, ill-concealed sense of satisfaction because they now feel justified in saying 'We knew there was no point in attacking Iraq' - is proof that the real war against terrorism is only just starting.
Of course, it is exciting to see that, after this war which some people still persist in describing as unnecessary, pamphlets, books and newspapers are being sold on the streets of Baghdad which would have led to a prison sentence and torture under Saddam Hussein - or, elsewhere, under Communism.
We have to do it by, in the first place, seeking to construct a unity in the European Union.
We cannot seriously ask the people to support us in the European elections next year and at the same time pretend we do not have a role and that we have nothing to say about the direction the world is going in.
Life is still cheap in the Middle East and we will continue to count the cost of the recent war for a very long time.
In their interests and in our interests it is essential that we do this as a matter of urgency.
As well as the physical and political reconstruction of Iraq, we also have to rebuild relationships within the EU itself and our credibility in the field of common foreign and security policy, we have to repair the damage that has been inflicted on the UN and, last but not least, we have to rebuild the transatlantic relationship.
There needs to be a change in the attitude of the current US Administration if the transatlantic relationship is indeed to be restored.
Giving the United Nations the lead role in post-war Iraq, as EU leaders have requested, would be the clearest demonstration on the part of the United States that it values the transatlantic relationship and it genuinely wants to rebuild it.
It should not be forgotten that the United Nations fulfilled a similar role in East Timor in 1999.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, before the war, during the war, and today, after the war in Iraq, Parliament has faithfully analysed the situation and expressed its views.
We must do everything in our power to rebuild our union, not just around a table but in our minds too.
This means that we must work flat out to agree on a vision of the world or, at least, to achieve converging visions on major problems such as transatlantic relations, the role and reforms of international organisations, the role of the law and of force, and so on.
Nonetheless, we must also rebuild, or rather build, a common vision of the world and our responsibilities in the world.
The Greek Presidency has endeavoured to begin this work, but we have a long, long way to go.
Mr President, we have to recognise that the relationship between the European Union and the United States is at an all-time low.
I believe that over the coming months we have a role to play in this Parliament, along with the Council and the Commission, to rebuild that relationship.
Each of us has focused on different priorities and, in many ways, we have ceased to understand each other's concerns.
After the attacks on the Twin Towers on that terrible day in 2001, the United States concentrated on terrorism: where the next attack was coming from, homeland security.
In Europe we went on to bring in the euro and concentrate on enlargement.
We must not allow recent events to continue, or ferment or destroy us.
There will always be disagreements between us and the United States.
An identity that can offer politics, logic and culture against the violence and the social and cultural barbarity being promoted by the new military doctrine of the United States.
The European Union has a duty and an obligation to study in depth the new international situation being created by American expansionism and the untrustworthiness of the neo-conservative American leadership.
We have a duty to demand answers to questions which still remain open: First, about the blatant violation of international law with an aggressive war; secondly, about the attempt to deceive public opinion about alleged weapons of mass destruction, which turned out to be the lie of the century; thirdly, about the barbaric looting of cultural treasures, and I hope that no museum will dare receive the stolen goods; fourthly, about the annihilation of hundreds of civilians, about the destruction of infrastructures, about the bombing of television stations and the murder of journalists and, last but not least, about the war unleashed by the United States against the United Nations.
Finally, I should like to stress that the worthy women of Iraq can make a decisive contribution to the ending of the chaos in post-war Iraq, to the reconstruction of the country and to the future democratic governance.
The presidency and the Commission must demand the immediate application of unanimous UN resolution 1325 calling for increased participation and representation of women in all decision-making centres at all levels.
And finally, we hope that on 21 June the European Union will exert its influence so that decisions are taken that will implement the road map, so that a fair solution can at last be found to the question of the Middle East and a climate of trust can be restored with the Arab world.
There is abundant proof that Mr Aznar worked actively against the letter of the Council agreement of 17 February.
Mr President, a few very brief final comments on the debate in Parliament this morning.
I think that, at this stage of the debate, this is much more important than debating internal divisions and a series of other issues which are of course important, but which are not as pressing or urgent as the situation in Iraq.
It has both practical answers - humanitarian aid, support for cultural issues, support and pressure to find a peace process in the Middle East - and political answers to a series of issues which I shall not repeat, because it is important that the European Union has come out, has supported these principles, has made the efforts it has made during all these months for a different position to be heard on a series of such issues.
The second point, of course, is what happens with the international system, with the role of the UN, where this war in Iraq has got us in terms of weapons of mass destruction.
The third point, the major issue to come out of this entire crisis is the need for a common foreign policy, a common policy on security and defence issues.
I think that, within all these procedures, a new momentum has started up in the European Union, from which we need to learn lessons and see what we can do.
I should like, however, to close by commenting that many who speak of the need for a common foreign policy or common security or defence policy consider that what must of necessity emerge from these procedures are decisions or positions which correspond absolutely to their creed and their positions.
This policy will prosper, will become a reality only once we realise that we need to broker compromises between us, understand the positions developed by all of us and find those elements that can unite us, that can act as a common denominator, and not those elements on which we have differences.
It was this approach, moreover, that allowed us, I believe, over the last two or three months, to take certain steps in this direction, steps which were welcomed both by public opinion and by you here, by the European Parliament.
This discussion in Parliament has shown that the European Parliament is a source of constructive ideas in the EU and a lot of inspiration can be drawn from what has been said this morning.
If we do not organise the basic political conditions properly, it will be difficult for the Commission to play a meaningful, effective role.
The reality here is that we are still in a phase where the basic, real, political issues must be addressed first.
I agree that a qualified majority vote is better than disqualified unanimity.
There might be disagreement after a vote, yes, but Europe will have a standpoint.
The dynamics of everyone in the Union knowing that a standpoint can emerge after a discussion is a very pedagogical instrument, which will discipline politics in regard to how things are being discussed.
Mr President, I asked Commissioner Nielson a question to which I would like a reply.
The Commissioner can reply if he wishes.
The ending of all sanctions would also normalise Iraq's situation as a large oil producing and exporting country.
The debate is closed.
Indeed, there is no doubt that the period now beginning in Iraq is going to be very dangerous, almost as dangerous as the war itself, although in a different way, and that a highly operational authority that can take firm, quick decisions will be required to manage it.
Nonetheless, the UN, although not embodying 'a universal conscience transcending states', as claimed by Dominique de Villepin (on what basis?), represents a broad range of countries that could be useful in stabilising Iraq.
The sovereignty of the Iraqi people and the territorial integrity of its country must be respected.
The next item is the vote.
Report (A5-0145/2003) by Toine Manders, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (COM(2002) 17 - C5-0088/2002 - 2002/0021(COD)) Before the vote on Amendments Nos 85 and 99: Mr President, on the voting slip which we have in front of us it says that Amendment No 85 is identical to Amendment No 99.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE . (PT) I support this report, which finally creates the legal instrument that has been for too long awaited by the cooperative sector.
Furthermore, the SCE must ensure that workers are informed and consulted and are permanently represented and involved in the management of the SCE.
Lastly, I wish to highlight: a) the legislative role given to Member States in the regulation on the Statute for employee representatives on the SCE and the importance of the principle that employee representatives should benefit from the same level of protection as employee representatives at national level; b) the initiatives in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility, which must be promoted by employee representatives when they participate in the management of SCEs; c) gender balance.
We must ensure that the methods used to nominate, appoint or elect employee representatives promote gender balance. . (PT) With the proposal for a directive addressed in this report, the Commission is seeking to supplement the Statute for a European Cooperative Society with regard to the involvement of employees.
In addition to the legal and institutional issues involved in this entire process, we need fundamentally to adapt its content on reconciling employee participation and rights in European Cooperative Societies.
My colleague, Mr De Rossa, has produced a report which will assist in the proliferation of the cooperative model which when experienced by working people is seen as having key advantages.
In the UK cooperative sector, which is now growing and has gone through a process of modernisation, this report will be welcomed. . (PT) I am voting against the report because I feel that the issue directly related to the involvement of employees in European Cooperative Societies (SCE) exceeds the scope of Article 137.
In my opinion, just like Paragraph 1(e) of the same article, which runs counter to the recommendation of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Paragraph 3 of that article does not constitute a sufficient and necessary legal basis for the desired employee participation in the life of these cooperative societies.
Some people will undoubtedly say that Article 308 of the EC Treaty is not the appropriate legal basis, that this legal base excludes the EP, in other words that it is denied codecision in this area and, in future, will merely be consulted.
The arguments put forward by a number of my colleagues in favour of rejecting the text for this reason are relevant and convincing.
Article 95 of the EC Treaty on the approximation of national laws which have as their object the establishment and functioning of the internal market certainly seems to be the appropriate legal base.
I will therefore abstain on Amendment No 1, which disputes the legal base, with a view to ensuring that the text is adopted in due time. . (PT) This regulation is intended to create a European legal statute for cooperative societies, so as to enable them to operate beyond their national borders, within the single market of the EU.
This statute for a European Cooperative Society, which shares the aims of the statute for a European Company (Regulation No 2157/2001), seeks to adapt production structures to Community level, thereby enabling companies of all kinds to promote the reorganisation of their activities at Community level, in other words, to speed up the process of centralising and concentrating the capital of the huge multinational corporations - a process that will enable them to overcome the 'obstacles', as they call them, of national legislation to the mergers of companies from different Member States.
We have rejected this aim, where companies are concerned, of creating European capital, as well as the socio-economic consequences that such restructuring and mergers will have, in particular for an outermost country such as Portugal.
With regard to the cooperatives, with their own specific characteristics for the participation of their members and for the redistribution of profits, our abstention is based both on our doubts about the entire legislative process, and on the aim and content of this Commission initiative, although Parliament did propose some welcome amendments to the proposal submitted by the Executive Committee. . (PT) I am voting against this report because I believe that the European Cooperative Society (SCE) exceeds the scope of legislative harmonisation and constitutes a new supranational legal form.
I am genuinely sorry that this approach has been used as a weapon and as a justification for yet another institutional conflict.
It is a sad example of a failure of solidarity between generations that an alliance principally composed of Socialists and Greens has voted against even an investigation into extending the system to retired Members.
I voted for the Manders report on environmental liability because the amendments adopted ultimately responded quite well to the objections I had raised during yesterday's debate.
A very significant majority of Members (312 in favour, 179 against) held the same view.
The main amendments that convinced me to vote in favour are: 1) Amendments Nos 85 and 99, which call on the Commission, in particular, to draw up proposals for the application of the directive to environmental damage caused by nuclear pollution and maritime transport; 2) Amendments Nos 86 and 103, which do away with the exemption from liability linked to the prior issue of an administrative authorisation or the insufficiency of scientific and technical knowledge; 3) Amendment No 107, which calls on operators to use appropriate forms of financial security to cover their responsibilities.
In other words, faced with the harsh reality of a profit-oriented society, this report will make absolutely no difference at all. . (PT) It is our view that policies for protecting the environment and natural resources are crucial to sustainable development.
Priority must be attached to policies and measures aimed at prevention, for example, developing forms of research and support for access to the best technology available, paying particular attention to the problems and specific characteristics of small and medium-sized companies.
After 21 years of preparation nothing seems to have come of the original intentions.
The directive is applicable to just 13% of the EU's territory, the regions indicated in the Birds Directive and Natura 2000.
Marine pollution and damage due to nuclear energy do not count and even if people were acting on the basis of a licence or the state of the art at the time, there is no liability.
Advances in environmental protection at national level are made impossible if Article 95 for a uniform market is placed ahead of environmental protection in Article 175.
The EPLP does not, however, support the inclusion of GMOs in this directive as, firstly, we believe it is the wrong directive and, secondly, there is existing legislation on this topic and this could give rise to confusion among potential operators as to which legislation is applicable. . (PT) This Commission proposal intended to ensure the adoption of an overall Community system for preventing and remedying environmental damage including water pollution, damage done to biodiversity and soil contamination, which constitute a serious risk to human health, is extremely important.
The text adopted by Parliament is going to breed confusion.
The concept of environmental liability, which is still tentative, is based on the need to determine who is responsible and to establish a causal relationship between the event in question and the pollution: it entails long procedures and delays in providing compensation.
The system of liability without fault laid down by the CLC/IOPCF international conventions has the advantage for victims of designating a responsible party who must be insured and creating a compensation fund which, in theory, is available immediately in the case of pollution.
Indeed, Commissioner Prodi was actually a steering committee member in the eighties at the same time as Wim Duisenberg was the treasurer of Bilderberg.
I should have had a reply on 25 April but still have not received one.
The Bilderberg meeting is starting at the weekend.
When I have tried to put an oral question in this Parliament or in the last one, the Commissioners have basically been afraid to answer.
What I really want to know is whether the Commissioners attend these meetings in their own private capacity or whether they are representing the Commission.
If they are representing the Commission, we need to know what happens at these Bilderberg meetings because at the end of the day this is a secret organisation which is deciding global policy without any input from the public.
The people need to know what happens at the Bilderberg meetings, and if I ask a question in good time the Commission should answer that question.
The next item is the statement by the Council on the EU-USA extradition agreement and the International Criminal Court.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to bring you up to date on the current state of negotiations between the Presidency and the United States of America on the two agreements, one on extradition and one on mutual judicial assistance.
The text of the draft agreements was sent to the European Parliament two weeks ago.
The Presidency hopes that they will be approved and signed at the JHA Council on 6 June.
This will allow the Presidency to sign the agreements within the framework of the summit meeting of the European Union and the United States due to be held in Washington on 25 June.
After a first round of negotiations under the Spanish Presidency, extensive negotiations were held under the Danish Presidency with the help of the Commission and the support of the Council Secretariat.
At its meeting on 28 February 2003, the Council agreed that the Presidency had conducted the negotiations efficiently, with an encouraging outcome, and that the negotiation of the agreements should be suspended, in order to allow time for the Member States to examine all relevant aspects of the text.
Certain Member States are still in the process of consulting their national parliaments, which is why the Council decided at its meeting last week to facilitate the completion of the information process.
If the Council on 5 June authorises the Presidency to sign the agreements on behalf of the European Union, certain of the Member States will need to follow their constitutional procedures, which implies approval or ratification by their national parliaments.
Article 24 of the Treaty on European Union expressly allows Member States to state that they must follow constitutional procedures before being bound by an agreement.
The European Union will only be bound following the exchange of the legislative acts with the United States of America, which will consequently only take place once the Council has taken a second decision authorising the Presidency to exchange the legislative ratifying acts with the United States of America.
Between the signature of the contracts and the exchange of the ratifying documents, the Presidency will update the European Parliament on the text of the agreement on an ad hoc basis, despite the fact, of course, that the Treaty on European Union contains no such requirement.
It is logical for this update to take place at this stage, given that the constitutional procedures have traditionally made provision for governments to seek the assent or advice of national parliaments on the final text of the agreement.
I must stress that, if we do not reach some sort of agreement, we shall have to live with the existing bilateral agreements which the Member States have concluded.
In all events, the EU-USA agreements will not repeal bilateral agreements between the Member States and the United States of America.
The agreements I am telling you about today are based on Articles 24 and 38 of the Treaty on European Union.
If a bilateral agreement on mutual judicial assistance or extradition between a Member State and the United States of America makes provision for certain grounds for refusal, that Member State will be able to continue to cite them even once the EU-USA agreements have entered into force.
It recognises that the state being asked to extradite a person may refer to its constitutional principles, which need not be included in the actual text of the constitution, but which can be enshrined in a text on equally as high a level as the constitution for historical or other reasons which are legally binding and which prevent it from honouring its obligation to extradite a person.
The Member States which conclude new agreements with the United States of America in the future will clearly have to comply with these EU agreements, in that they will form part of the acquis of the European Union.
In the opinion of the Presidency, the negotiations were successful.
The draft EU-USA agreement on extradition contains a provision which prohibits extradition in the case of the imposition or execution of the death penalty.
This provision exceeds the level of protection for which provision is made in bilateral extradition agreements, given that it creates a general precondition for the result described and does not make the non-execution of the death penalty dependent upon the assurances of the Government of the United States of America in the case in question.
Contrary to what has applied to date in almost all bilateral extradition agreements, the non-execution of the death penalty by the Government of the United States of America will not depend on the assurances given in the case in question by the Government of the United States of America each time on an ad hoc basis, and will probably be put forward as a precondition by the Member State in receipt of an extradition request from the United States.
Some of the other issues to which the draft agreements bring added value in connection with extradition are as follows: In the case of sensitive information, the draft agreement allows consultations to be requested in order to determine the degree to which the information contained in a request can be protected by the requesting state.
The European Union and the United States of America agreed at the negotiation level to set this out in writing in an explanatory memorandum which states that Article 10 is not intended to affect the obligations of the states who are party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
Consequently, the question of a simultaneous request for a person to be handed over from the International Criminal Court and an extradition request from the United States of America is regulated and shall continue to be regulated so that it is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Member States, while the Council will not be able to proceed to make any declaration on this.
With regard to mutual judicial assistance, some of the main achievements of the negotiations with the United States of America are to be found in the following sectors: the draft agreement improves cooperation in the field of investigations into the possible financial elements of serious crime, including organised crime, terrorism and fraud.
The Member States which do not at present have an agreement on mutual judicial assistance with the United States of America can fall back on public order, security, national sovereignty or other interests of the state in receipt of the request in order to refuse to transmit information in some cases.
The agreement contains extensive provisions concerning data protection and the provision of evidence and information.
The draft agreement contains provisions which facilitate the use of joint investigation teams and the facility for teleconferencing between the Member States and the United States.
These provisions make it easier for the Member States to use these facilities but they do not oblige them to use them.
The draft agreement permits the use of modern means of telecommunication, facsimiles or e-mail in order to exchange requests for mutual judicial assistance and replies with express confirmation of receipt.
Mutual judicial assistance, insofar as this sort of thing does not already happen under bilateral agreements, can be used by the administrative authorities both in the United States of America and the Member States, when they are conducting investigations into criminal behaviour with a view to criminal prosecution or to reporting such conduct to the investigating or prosecuting authorities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you once again for giving us the opportunity to give Parliament a progress report on negotiations between the European Union and the United States of America on the extradition and mutual judicial assistance agreements.
The third question is whether these texts represent added value over and above the bilateral agreements currently in force.
Nevertheless, I feel I must draw the attention of the Presidency of the Council to the doubts expressed by Parliament, as reflected in the question that led to this statement.
To date, the European Parliament has never been consulted on any similar international agreements, even when they concerned fundamental aspects of foreign policy and cooperation on judicial matters.
When neither the European Parliament nor national parliaments are involved, how can we say that the European Union's actions in this regard are in line with the democratic principles on which it is based under Article 6 of the EU Treaty?
Lastly, I would like to thank the Presidency once again for the positive attitude it has shown in relation to such a sensitive dossier, as demonstrated by your presence in the House.
Mr President, I too would like first to thank the Council for distributing this document and for facilitating this debate.
I have strongly defended the European search and arrest warrant in this House.
I therefore think that in principle increased cooperation with the United States is a positive development.
My first question relates to the fact that there is a guarantee that a person who is extradited cannot be condemned to death.
I would however like to know how we can guarantee that judicial cooperation and the handing over of evidence does not amount to collaborating to ensure someone is executed.
Lastly, Mr President, is it politically acceptable to sign an agreement strengthening judicial cooperation with a state that is keeping nationals of our countries in such conditions?
Mr President, 18 months ago when I had the honour to serve as chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, this House adopted a resolution on judicial cooperation between the Union and the USA.
That resolution set out four key requirements for any extradition agreement: full respect for the European Convention on Human Rights; no extradition of persons likely to face military tribunals; no extradition if the accused risks facing the death penalty; and that any measures affecting data protection should be proportionate, effective and time-limited.
The current draft agreements between the EU and the US on extradition and legal cooperation must not escape the parliamentary scrutiny provided for in our Treaties.
They fall not only under Article 38 but also under Article 24, and it is scandalous that the Council does not consult this House in advance on all the Article 24 agreements.
In France, the Conseil d'Etat has refused the Assemblée Nationale the right to approve such agreements: so unless the Council consults us, what parliamentary scrutiny exists in the European Union?
These agreements on extradition and legal co-operation are very ambitious.
In the Union, Member States have not yet ratified our decision on money laundering or the framework directive on terrorism.
The Council must seek to reconcile the potential conflict between a request from the ICC to surrender a person to the court and the obligation stemming from this extradition agreement.
I would just draw attention to the fact that, under Articles 38 and 24 of the Treaty, Parliament has no right whatsoever to be heard.
It is an extraordinary provision, which means that the Council can enter into these agreements off its own bat.
In April of last year, the Council wrote to the British human rights organisation, State Watch, which had requested information about these agreements, and said that the negotiations that were under way had to be kept secret, since the Council's interest in secrecy counted for more than its interest in democratic scrutiny.
It is easy to see why the Council has kept these negotiations secret for more than a year, for, if they lead to an agreement, very important parts of the legal certainty by which most of our legal systems are characterised would be successfully abolished at the stroke of a pen.
Broadly speaking, the state of our law would be reduced to something reminiscent of what it was in the Middle Ages, both by the extradition agreement, which goes very much farther than what was urged, covering, as it does, very many more types of crime than terrorism - it is enough to have been sentenced to one year's imprisonment under the penal legislation of the country by or from which extradition is requested - and by the second part of the agreement, namely that relating to what is termed mutual legal aid.
These agreements are being entered into with the United States in the name of legal certainty at the same time as everything is being done to infringe legal certainty.
As I said before, this Parliament has no influence at all, either legally or constitutionally, but the debate may be of use in raising the storm that will be necessary for checking these attempts to undermine legal certainty.
President-in-Office of the Council, today, for the first time, we are debating an extradition agreement between the European Union and the United States on which no parliament in the European Union, not even the European Parliament, has been consulted.
I would therefore like to thank you very much for being here with us today, but I am also quite aware of the fact that we have virtually no room for manoeuvre at all, given that, as you yourself have said, everything may well have been decided by 5 June.
I genuinely hope that the majority of Parliament will be of the opinion that it is possible to lodge an appeal of this kind.
We have many grounds for scepticism and concern regarding this agreement, including the failure to give priority to the European arrest warrant in the event of simultaneous requests and the ambiguity which persists even on matters on which there is as little disagreement in this House as data protection or the death penalty.
We wonder, moreover, why it is that we are in such a hurry to conclude this agreement when we know that a number of European citizens are being held prisoner wholly unlawfully at Guantánamo, as has already been mentioned by other Members, and that nothing is known of them.
If the Union and Parliament want to live up to their reputation as at least verbal champions of rights, we must get moving and send a delegation without delay to ascertain the conditions in which those citizens are being held before we sign an agreement with the United States.
Mr President, in my opinion the Council has made a conscientious attempt to reach a balanced result where these accords are concerned.
On the one hand it is important that we support our NATO friends where possible in the fight against terrorism.
If this becomes easier as a result of the extradition and legal cooperation agreement, then that is a major gain.
At the same time I can see that the legal systems of the United States and the European Union are not the same.
There is still the question of competing extradition requests by way for example of a European arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court.
Member States can conclude a non-extradition treaty with the United States with representatives dispatched by the government in Washington.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am not going to repeat the excellent points made concerning the untenable situation as regards what is known as the third pillar.
In reality, there is the possibility that this situation could affect many areas and send out an undemocratic image of the European Union, especially to the candidate countries.
The handing-over of those who are accused is not extradition in the legal sense of the term.
The fact that this is not discussed is not, therefore, a problem in itself.
Naturally, Europe must remember its undertaking to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Statute as well as the contents of the declaration of 30 September 2002.
This declaration recommends to all candidate countries and all Member States that they should not sign any bilateral agreements that would go against the principle that is the basis for the Court, which I am glad to say has existed since 11 March and will, I hope, be able to start operating very soon.
Mr President, this agreement is very important, not just because it will be useful in the fight against international crime but also because this is the first time the Union as such has negotiated an international agreement on this matter, which binds the Member States and takes precedence over any bilateral agreements they have concluded.
In matters of respect for fundamental rights, it is bound by Article 6(1) and (2) of the Treaty on European Union and by the Charter on Fundamental Rights, which lay down more stringent guarantees than those provided for in third countries and, in particular, in the United States - I too am thinking of the European citizens still imprisoned at Guantánamo - and it is therefore these provisions of the Treaty, not respect for individual rights in general, which must be referred to in the EU-US agreement.
This is a requirement that binds not just the Member States but the Union as such too, which does not have the power to conclude agreements which provide for derogations from this principle.
I therefore consider Article 9 of the agreement on judicial cooperation to be inadequate.
Then it is absurd that the Council should conclude agreements with third countries which it has not yet implemented within the Union because the Member States have failed to ratify the agreements or because of failure to implement framework decisions which have already been adopted.
It is also absurd that, as provided for by Article 10 of the agreement, a request for extradition from a third country might take precedence over a request from a Member State to hand a person over made by virtue of a European arrest warrant.
We must therefore remedy these shortcomings, and the agreement will then be a model for European Union cooperation with third countries to combat international crime, with due regard for the fundamental rights which the Union acknowledges all human beings to have.
Mr President-in-Office, as you will understand, both the matter of the European prisoners in Guantanamo and the conditions they face and the matter of the transfer of confidential data to the United States on airline passengers give us cause for distrust and concern about the agreement and about the stand which the European Union will maintain.
The norm for extradition between the US and the EU Member States is to be that an offence should carry a minimum sentence of 1 year's imprisonment.
For some Member States that already have a bilateral extradition treaty with the US this is nothing new.
But conspiracy, participation and an attempt to commit an offence will also require compulsory extradition and that is definitely far-reaching.
The European Union must guarantee the civil rights of its residents, in this case those of suspects and convicted persons.
Better still, Member States must include a provision in the treaty giving them the option of trying cases themselves if extradition to the US is refused.
Other Members of this House have already pointed out that data protection is not adequate.
In conclusion, I should like to warmly support what was said by the chairman of our committee, namely that he finds it unacceptable that the Council should yet again refuse to consult Parliament.
We simply cannot accept this any longer and to be quite honest, I fail to understand how the Greek Presidency dares to continue the process by repeatedly making fools of this House.
Mr President, in the fight against international crime and terrorism, there is already cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and the United States as regards information and this has produced significant results.
It must be developed at judicial level in order to improve efficiency, but also in order to comply with our fundamental principles and the protection of freedoms.
Indeed, the more effort we put into stepping up international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and other forms of crime, the more care we will have to take not to lose the democratic guarantees and legal principles on which our action is based along the way.
Article 6 of the Treaty establishing the European Union must be mentioned explicitly in the agreement and there should also be a reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was proclaimed by the Council, by the Member States, and will, I hope, be given constitutional value.
Mr President, I have listened with particular attention and have noted the views, comments and observations expressing specific and justified concerns on the part of the Members of the European Parliament.
However, over and above that, we as the Presidency consider that, after the signing, a detailed progress report must indeed be given and we must listen to the views of the European Parliament.
Despite the fact, in other words, that there is no legal basis under current provisions, as Presidency I repeat and emphasise that the Presidency will update the House and the House will also have the possibility of expressing its views on the two texts, because we too consider that, on such important issues, there must be continual contact and a two-way exchange of information with the European Parliament.
I would remind you that, within the framework of the European Union, when we debated and agreed on the European Arrest Warrant, the idea of the arrest warrant from one Member State taking precedence over every request to extradite to any other third country was not accepted.
However, even if we decide under our own internal procedures in the future to give such priority to the European Arrest Warrant, the draft agreement contains a special provision which makes it easier for us to take such a decision.
Now, as regards the relationship between the EU-USA agreements and the bilateral agreements which apply between the Member States and the United States of America, I shall repeat what I said in my first intervention that the EU-USA agreements do not repeal individual bilateral agreements between the Member States and the United States.
For there to be more assurances, over and above those that apply within the framework of the bilateral agreements signed to date by the individual Member States and the United States of America.
What we want precisely, and this was also what we were trying to do throughout the negotiations, and this is what we are trying to do until the agreements and our negotiations with the United States are completed, is for there to be the necessary guarantees for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which will respect the constitutional principles of the Member States.
As regards special courts, both the extradition agreement and the mutual judicial assistance agreement, in other words the drafts of the agreements, expressly stipulate that the Member States may continue to cite their reasons for refusal already set out in the current bilateral agreements which they have concluded with the United States of America.
In addition, the draft extradition agreement expressly recognises that constitutional principles may obstruct extradition, which is why the agreement makes provision for a specific consultation mechanism.
Moreover, in the preamble to the drafts of both agreements being discussed, there is an express reference to the principle of a fair trial, including a hearing by an impartial, ordinary court, and to the question of special courts, which do not fit in with the judicial legal culture of Europe and are a matter that we raise at every meeting and in all talks with the United States delegation.
As regards the death penalty, and here I must also refer in connection with the death penalty to the draft on judicial assistance, because perhaps it is clearer than in the draft on extradition, and point out that, on the basis of Article 13 of the draft agreement on mutual judicial assistance, the Member States have the facility to refuse a request for assistance from the United States of America if they consider that the execution of the request might affect their sovereignty, security, public order or other fundamental interests.
Under Article 9, Paragraph 2, a Member State may also impose additional conditions on the United States of America with regard to the further use of evidence, for example, that it should not be used for prosecutions which lead to the imposition of the death penalty.
The arrangement in the draft agreement with the United States of America has been put there precisely in order to bring more added value to existing bilateral agreements between Member States and the United States of America, which do not contain adequate guarantees.
I should like to finish by thanking Parliament once again for giving us the opportunity to update and listen to you and to assure you once again that we shall listen to the views of the European Parliament with particular attention before the completion of all the procedures.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the statement by the Council and by the Commission on the New Neighbours Initiative and the Wider Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of completing the enlargement procedure with the ten new Member States gave rise last year to a new initiative regarding the European Union's relations with its new geographical and political environment, its new neighbours.
Essentially, over and above naming issues, what we see here is a new debate on how the European Union should see the future of its relations with a series of countries which encircle it.
This approach is based on the principle of differentiation, taking account of the conditions which characterise each country, its political and economic power, its performance and the Union's objectives for each.
Today, approximately one year after it started, completion of the enlargement procedure has strengthened our prospect of such an approach, in that it tables the wider fabric of relations between the Union and its neighbours, thereby managing to spread basic principles such as peace, security and prosperity, which are hugely important to the citizens of Europe.
The objective of combining this sort of policy with continuing and deepening enlargement is to create a ring of friends around the European Union.
These thoughts were debated in depth in April, when the strengthening of cooperation between the European Union and its eastern and Mediterranean neighbours and how to evaluate their progress was examined.
The same issue was examined at the European Conference held at head of state and government level in Athens on 17 April and it will be discussed at the next Euro-Mediterranean Conference on 26 and 27 May 2003.
In particular, the European Conference on 17 April provided an opportunity to start the dialogue on the general principles of the overall initiative and to issue a statement specifying its common objectives, objectives which are accepted by the new Member States, which are accepted by the associated countries, the EFTA countries, the countries of the western Balkans, Ukraine, Moldavia and Russia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the New Neighbours initiative is an attempt by us to give new momentum to a framework which already exists and concerns relations with our neighbouring countries to the south and east.
The situation is also being monitored in other areas which are not very far away, in the southern Caucasus, which also does not at present come under the initiative, and I should like to point out that Russia is a special case and that needs to be reflected in its relationship with this initiative.
As regards the political values, these constitute the basis for improving political relations and are a necessary component for internal political stability and economic prosperity.
Promoting the political values will also contribute to the creation and operation of a responsible and efficient administration.
The Union can learn important lessons from its enlargement process and can also extend programmes on which it has acquired experience to neighbouring countries.
Here too, the ultimate objective for neighbours not contemplating accession is participation in the European area in which common movement of goods, services and capital will apply, the European Economic Area.
This is a prospect which can also constitute a medium-term alternative in other cases.
In addition, the procedure which we have already started up with Russia to create a common European Economic Area can also be examined for the other three eastern neighbours, including of course Belarus once conditions allow.
As far as the Mediterranean partners are concerned, the legal structure of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation has essentially been completed and most of these partners have been integrated into the procedure for the gradual establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union.
The liberalisation of trade will also prove to be a catalyst to economic reform.
The third objective is to safeguard peace and prosperity inside and outside the Union.
Within this framework, it is advisable for us to examine the possibilities for closer cooperation on important international issues, such as terrorism, organised crime, the Petersberg tasks, environmental protection, development aid and immigration.
Enlargement is creating new opportunities, but also new challenges, especially as regards our neighbours to the east.
The Petersberg tasks and reinforced cooperation with Russia and the Ukraine are an important tool in the direction we want.
The objective of creating an area of common prosperity through sustainable and balanced economic and social development is linked to five more specific elements.
First element: the establishment of a free trade zone and environmental protection are complementary, not incompatible.
The objective of the current framework adopted at the Euro-Mediterranean conference in Valencia is to implement a regional cooperation programme in the field of justice, combating narcotics, organised crime and terrorism and cooperation in dealing with issues to do with the integration of immigrants, immigration itself and the movement of persons.
Fourth element: close cooperation in the energy sector.
Many of our neighbours are important suppliers and our policy will focus on the energy security of the Union, again in keeping with the principle of differentiation.
The Union's position as regards what these countries should expect once they meet the criteria set must be clear cut.
And here the principle of differentiation must be carefully applied.
The starting point for our proposals on a new neighbourhood policy is of course enlargement, but now is not the time to discuss the membership prospects of our new neighbours.
This will allow us to share with our partners much of what makes the European Union what it is, not least the common market and its rules, our Community programmes and political dialogue, but not our internal institutions.
The Commission has already explained that the countries of the western Balkans and also Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey are not included in this ring, and why that is.
These countries already have prospects for future membership, and in the case of Romania and Bulgaria this already involves a specific time frame.
We therefore want to work out an action plan with each individual country based on experience and our present treaty commitments.
Well, for the time being, in conjunction with the candidate countries and the partner states, we are making our contribution to the discussions and conclusions planned in the Council.
Each national plan must relate to a comprehensive and coherent framework covering all areas.
So you will see that we want to make use of an instrument that has already very much proved its worth during the enlargement process.
We are developing the basis of a new financial instrument and although we have already outlined the general purposes of this instrument, we still need to define it more precisely and to establish the planning principles and the overall financial envelope.
We intend to bring forward a special communication on this subject in the autumn.
Parliament's contribution to the further debate will not only be significant but will also carry weight.
The representatives of the people in our partner states must play their part in contributing to further progress.
We can take it that the parliaments of the partner states will attach great importance to the views of the European Parliament, and I would also be grateful if the Members of the European Parliament would use their contacts to enter into an intensive dialogue and exchange of experience with parliamentarians in the partner states.
That is why I am very pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has already appointed a rapporteur and had its first discussion on this.
I think it is essential, while we are in the process of enlargement - a process that will keep us busy for a long time in fact - that we should spell out who is to be a neighbour in the future and who is to be a future Member State of the European Union.
The process of enlargement has now essentially reached a stage where there may still be some scope for 'rounding off', but any further accession that would jeopardise the Union's capacity for integration and totally undermine the balance between these 25 states has to be ruled out.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to start by telling the Commission how timely and appropriate the communication on the Wider Europe and on relations with its new neighbours to the east and south is, not least in that it makes it possible to structure the debate to exclude improvisation or extemporisation, which have the effect of raising easily-raised or vain hopes in a situation which is extremely complex and in a state of constant flux.
It is, however, right, as the Commission communication states, to avoid making a misleading parallel between neighbour countries and countries which will never become part of the European Union, and, at the same time, to avoid accession to the European institutions being the only instrument which can be proposed for a closer cooperation policy addressing common problems and interests.
Not to exclude from this strategy, Commissioner, countries which are already about to join the Union, not in order to cause confusion but because these countries too will need to be able to interact with the areas on their borders.
If borders are considered to be more than just physical borders, it is extremely important that, between now and when they join the Union, the Balkans, for example, are able to interact in a Mediterranean context.
We want to share, first and foremost, values, democracy, the rule of law and freedom and to develop new as well as existing instruments and policies in this framework.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, clearly the accession of ten new countries to the European Union is set to change the relationship we have with our neighbours.
It should also play a key role in our relations with our new neighbours following enlargement.
It is to be hoped that the new European Constitution will give cross-border cooperation the place it deserves.
As Mr Yegorov, the current governor of the area has said on many occasions, there needs to be a system of cross-border cooperation with both Lithuania and Poland.
Mr President, the historic enlargement of the Union and, perhaps to an even greater extent, the new situation created by the occupation of Iraq and the imperialist pretensions of the United States, mean that we need to think about the role the European Union wishes to play in the future and, in particular, its role with regard to its future neighbours.
The logic of force is persisting after the war.
To combat all of these perils effectively, I feel that priority should be given to objectives and means other than those set out in the Commission communication.
However, there will be no common area without common construction.
Does the composition of the enlarged meeting of 40 European countries, held in Athens on 17 April, which you have discussed, prefigure a type of multi-speed integration, with second-zone countries, the so-called Wider Europe, and others in a third zone, the southern Mediterranean countries?
A genuine cooperation policy cannot equate to the sacrosanct transposition of the Community acquis, because that is what we are talking about, especially when no equivalent is mentioned as regards aid.
The initiative of launching specific action programmes may be interesting given the rigidity, for example, of the overall Barcelona process.
As regards the conflicts, and I am ending now, the Commission has spent very little time on this aspect although a common area can only be built on the principle of international law and on a much more active role for the Union.
Our greatest criticism is reserved for the way the Barcelona process, the EU partnership with Russia as a regional power and relations with neighbouring states who have indicated a desire for integration have all been thrown into the same pot.
Mr President, one of the principal results of enlargement is the fact that countries which, until yesterday, seemed geographically far away have been integrated into the Union, and, therefore, that the peoples of these countries have been integrated, bringing the number of inhabitants of the new enlarged Union up to 450 million.
One of the primary objectives of the new reunified Europe, with its 25 Member States, will have to be the achievement of a preferential relationship with these neighbouring countries of both Eastern Europe, Russia and Asia, such as Kazakhstan, and those which make up the Middle East region and lie on the Mediterranean Basin.
If, however, this dialogue is to proceed with equal intensity where all the Union's neighbouring countries are concerned, we believe that political measures in the immediate term to facilitate peace in the Middle East and restore economic stability to the Mediterranean Basin are a priority.
Indeed, in our opinion, full recognition of the state of Israel and its citizens' right to a life free of terrorism and full recognition of the Palestinian people's right to an autonomous, independent state which is committed to combating all forms of terrorism and to monitoring whether the funds appropriated by the European Union are genuinely used to help the Palestinian people, to educate young people, to develop production activities and to build houses and infrastructure, are a primary objective.
There is therefore a clear need for a political and economic Union undertaking to encourage ongoing, harmonious development in these countries, so that people find in their native countries not just the means of subsistence but the means of social and cultural progress too.
Mr President, it just so happens that there is, today, an article on the future of Europe in the international press.
The innovative strength of the European Union lags far behind that of the United States.
As far as the course of events in Europe and in our neighbour states on this continent are concerned, however, I am bound to say that I had a sense of déjà vu when I read the Commission's statement.
The only prospect being offered to the surrounding countries is participation in the internal market, not participation in the Union and its decision-making process.
The development of neighbouring countries, the statement continues, in all these sectors can then be discussed annually in progress reports.
The theme of a Wider Europe therefore, if I have understood correctly, in fact concerns the affiliation of neighbouring countries to the European Union but without their participation in its decision-making.
It also presupposes that our current Member States fully meet the benchmarks and criteria mentioned in the statement.
Mr President, we live in a world where the better our neighbours and our other fellow human beings thrive, the better we also thrive.
That is why it is important to cultivate a policy that strengthens democracy and prosperity in the Union's neighbouring regions.
When Finland joined the European Union the Union suddenly had Russia as its neighbour, sharing a border with that country which is almost 1 300 kilometres long.
The strengthening of democracy and civil society also remains a fundamental aim of cooperation between the EU and Russia.
Enlargement means that, in addition to the border between Finland and Russia, the Union will be getting 10 new Interreg-TACIS borders.
The new Member States will bring with them Belarus, Ukraine and Moldava as neighbours.
The Commission communication quite rightly stresses the importance of cross-border and regional cooperation with our new neighbours.
We do of course have to consider how the enlarged Union of the future will arrange its relations with neighbouring states.
We need to construct as strong a partnership as possible with Ukraine in particular, and we also need to adopt a positive approach under Article 4 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
After the First World War and before the collapse of the Soviet Union, the national governments of the three countries, despite their diversity, turned to European values.
The three Republics participated in the 1972-1975 Pan-European Helsinki Conference as part of the Soviet delegation, and all three are part of the Council of Europe.
They are therefore not foreign to Europe.
The EU-Southern Caucasus Parliamentary Cooperation Committee has visited these countries on a number of occasions, and the solution for finding a way out of the crisis put forward by the three governments lay, each time, in establishing closer relations with Europe as quickly as possible.
I would accordingly like to thank the Commission and the Council for having addressed in their paper and in today's debate something that Europe urgently needs: a wide-ranging public debate on this very issue, the geographical expansion of Europe, not of the continent of Europe, but of close political cooperation within the European Union.
Mr President, in one year, the European Union of the 25, and later of the 27, will have new neighbours, but it will also keep old neighbours.
A debate on the new environment is both useful and necessary.
We must look on many of our new neighbours as potential candidates for integration into the European Union or, in any event, as associates and friends.
Mr President, in my view, the main aim of the initiative for new neighbours in the Wider Europe is not to put those neighbours who are waiting for their turn to join the Union to come one day on hold, Commissioner Verheugen.
I highlighted the importance of this during this morning's debate, but I would like to relay to you the moving account of one of these countries, which, in its own words, is currently waiting in the kindergarten of the Council of Europe until it is one day allowed into the older children's playground of the European Parliament.
There are many in that region who fear that the efforts made with regard to Central and Eastern Europe may result in a slackening of the links with their own countries that are already too little institutionalised.
Even today, Article 3 of the draft constitution states that 'the Union shall be open to all European states whose peoples share the same values', but it refrains from specifying what a European state is at all.
Yet it is never a good thing not to let people know where the borders are as this is more worrying for them than reassuring.
For some people, including myself, they stop at the North African countries, which are our neighbours and friends; it is therefore appropriate to envisage optimum partnerships with them.
The borders also stop at Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine as these countries form part of a whole, just as Russia does.
For many, the borders do not include Turkey or the Caucasus.
In fact, in this case, our neighbours would be Iran, Iraq and Syria.
In any event, in order to ensure a successful future for Europe, we must set a limit to its expansion.
Mr President, during the last plenary sitting, we voted in favour of one of the greatest ventures ever undertaken by the European Union - the accession of ten new Member States.
As such, I particularly welcome the important role that this major border country will be able to play in developing neighbourly relations with countries such as Ukraine, Belarus and, above all, Russia, as President Kwasniewski said only today.
Lastly, I had to mention the southern Mediterranean, which is of particular interest to a country such as Italy, almost all of whose territory borders on the Mediterranean Sea and which is thus a natural bridge linking the European Union and the countries of the southern Mediterranean.
These two countries, like the other countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean or in eastern and south-eastern Europe, have precious little in common apart from their relative geographical proximity to the European Union.
It has been said that there are countries that have membership prospects and others that do not.
We cannot offer all neighbouring states the four freedoms as the Commission does in Section 3 of its communication, and I quote: 'the prospect of a stake in the EU's Internal Market and further integration and liberalisation to promote the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital'.
Mr President, it is important to establish the EU's relations with its new neighbours, following the enlargement through a zone of prosperity and a ring of friends with whom the EU enjoys close, peaceful and cooperative economic relations.
In return for concrete progress, Russia and countries of the Western NIS and the Southern Mediterranean should be offered the prospect of a stake in the EU's internal market and participation in the so-called four freedoms - in effect, everything bar participation in the Institutions.
Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union allows any European state the opportunity of joining the Union, which is why accession has already been ruled out for the non-European Mediterranean partners.
In spite of Article 49, there is still a serious danger that Moldova and Ukraine will see the process as insufficiently differentiated and as a way of distancing the EU from their just membership aspirations.
However, the EU is looking at ways of facilitating the crossing of external borders for bona fide third country nationals; after all, good fences make for good neighbours in my opinion.
Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that the initiative presented by the European Commission on 11 March last is the best response the European Union could give to some of the fears inspired by enlargement.
This proposal is based on an overall view of the place of the new Europe in its surroundings, but from an individual viewpoint for each country, without affecting the European aspirations of these countries.
This plan will be differentiated and tailored to the needs of each country, so there is no danger, for example, that Libya will be offered freedom of movement.
Our intention is that at some point next year there will then be an overarching strategy for the future.
It is precisely because these countries have no prospect of membership that they are included in this programme.
That was not the case in either Helsinki or Copenhagen.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity given to me today to refer to the relations between the European Union and Russia is exceptionally timely, given that the summit in St Petersburg, which will be held at the end of May, has given occasion both here and in Moscow for an integrated examination of the framework for cooperation between the two sides.
Preparations for this summit were also an occasion for a more global approach to the question of cooperation with Russia and essentially demonstrate the common wish to strengthen our relations on the basis of common objectives, on the basis of a mutual effort to resolve problems and create new prospects.
At the same time, enlargement will increase the points of contact, the common interests and the common challenges even more.
Despite the difficulties which it is encountering in its efforts to change to a market economy, Russia is still a country with huge potential.
The current international climate has also reminded us once again of the importance of our strategic relations with Russia.
As I just said, the Russian economy is still in a transitional stage.
Finally, Russia has still not joined the World Trade Organisation.
Despite significant progress in the field of stabilising democracy, there are still shortcomings in relation to human rights, especially in Chechnya, which I shall come back to, as well as problems of organised crime and corruption.
It is without doubt in the Union's interest to help Russia develop a stable, democratic, prosperous society by strengthening its ties to Europe.
And although the means we use are different, essentially the objectives, in other words the dissemination of the Union's values to its surroundings, to its environment, both geographical and political, always constitute the basis of our policy.
Consequently, apart from a few differences, the same type of agreement ties us to Russia as ties us to the countries of central Asia.
This lack of proportion quickly became apparent, given that the partnership and cooperation agreement was unable to cover sufficient sectors, such as close cooperation on judicial matters and internal affairs, on foreign policy and defence matters, on the questions of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, combating terrorism and other matters.
That was one of the main reasons why we adopted a common strategy with Russia in 1999.
Appraisals of the adequacy of the EU-Russia cooperation framework, as regards covering a broad range of relations, vary.
On the other hand, neither the ?U nor Russia appear to be ready to proceed with a radical reform of the framework, a reform that would also presuppose time-consuming procedures for new negotiation and ratification.
We also believe that the St Petersburg summit, the first following enlargement and with the participation of all the new Member States, is the appropriate forum for taking this step.
Beyond the medium- and long-term prospects of our relations with Russia, we have also focused on achieving tangible results on a series of outstanding issues.
A major issue that has dragged on in relations between the two sides, the signature of the Multilateral Nuclear Environment and Programme for Russia, has already been set for the 21 May in Stockholm.
Secondly, the problems with the application of the solution for the movement of people between Kaliningrad and the rest of Russia have been overcome.
Our efforts to persuade Russia to invite the ten new members of the Union to St Petersburg are also having positive results.
Thus the summit is acquiring even greater symbolic importance and may contribute to a peaceful and secure Europe which confronts challenges with closer cooperation.
Finally, I would point out the common interest in combating the threat of narcotics from Afghanistan and central Asia.
First of all, I should like once again to express our disgust about the recent criminal terrorist bombings which cost the lives of dozens of people.
We believe that political procedure and dialogue are the only way to achieve a lasting solution to the problem.
We continue to take every opportunity to underline the need for respect for human rights and the need to punish those involved in violations of human rights and in violations of international humanitarian law.
In order to achieve this, we must examine the possibility of drawing up specific programmes that will aim to promote democracy, the rule of law, institutions and social recovery.
We must point out that, despite any irregularities and organisational weaknesses there may have been, the vote in favour of the constitution would appear at first glance to be positive and may be seen as a first step by Moscow towards a political settlement in Chechnya.
Finally, the presidency considers that the OSCE can provide valuable help to efforts by the Russian authorities in the area.
We heartily support the efforts by Holland which, in its capacity as chairmanship-in-office of the OSCE, is holding discussions with the Russian Government in connection with the modus operandi of a new OSCE mission in Chechnya.
Both sides are in full agreement that we have wide-ranging relations on a long-term basis, and that these relations need to be based on common values and should be further developed in the direction of a strategic partnership.
The neighbourhood policy that we discussed here this afternoon plays an important role in our relations with Russia, but there are also other significant factors, such as the security of the European Union's energy supply, the joint war on terror, and the need for cooperation to solve major regional and global problems.
On Russia's side, there is particular interest in cooperation on security policy, as evidenced by Russian participation in the police mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina or the proposal for a joint European centre for crisis management.
As the President-in-Office of the Council has already said, good progress has been made in negotiations on a readmission agreement.
We hope that we will be able to present a joint plan for the common economic area by the end of this year.
In particular, the Commission hopes that the neighbourhood policy proposals it brought forward in March will prevent new 'moats' developing on the European Union's eastern borders, which could lead to a two-class Europe.
The enlarged Union will have to further intensify and deepen cooperation with its neighbours, but our security needs dictate that the new Member States should also fully and effectively implement the Schengen rules when they join Schengen.
Russia is currently working on the assumption that extending the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to the new EU Member States provides an opportunity to renegotiate trade policy and other issues.
In contrast, we hope that the basically positive view of EU enlargement in Russia will help to maintain the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement as the basis of our relations, including the new Member States.
The Commission will not enter into any negotiations about the consequences of enlargement.
Mr President, four minutes is a generous allowance, especially after both the President of the Council and the Commissioner have answered quite a number of questions raised in the resolution, and I should like to express my thanks.
In fact, the border has been extended only around Kaliningrad and the Baltic states.
The last time this was discussed I asked whether the Council, following on from the treatment of the Kaliningrad question on transit visas for Russian citizens, could urge Russia to ensure that the border agreements between Russia and the three Baltic states are all ratified.
In the previous debate the Commissioner gave an unambiguous indication of complete agreement, since Russians going to St Petersburg will travel not via Lithuania and Belarus but via Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia.
The President of the Council also talked of the agreements and of course he also had in mind the complaints that have been made about their implementation.
Cross-border projects are always difficult in any case, but it seems that using TACIS actually makes things a little more difficult still.
I have a question on this point.
But what would be the effect if Russia, which after all is a former superpower with a great military capability, were to start playing a major role in European security and defence policy?
I should especially like to hear the Council's assessment of this.
The resolution also calls on the Commission to set up a strategic partnership.
That means of course that there must be convergence in EU policy.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there really must now be a new phase in our relations with Russia.
It is now a historic time - in Russia, in the Union, and in the world too - and we must act.
Terrorist attacks, whose victims' relatives I want to express my deep condolences to - and my sympathies also go to the victims themselves - show that there is opposition to any political solution in Chechnya, although my understanding is that the Russian Government has gone down that path by actually organising elections.
Reforms in Russia have thus been slow to come about.
Meanwhile, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are gaining strength more rapidly and sustainably, being led in their progress by the European Union.
Russia may lose its markets in the region, and Union enlargement, if the worst comes to the worst, may isolate Russia.
For that reason I want to emphasise the need for a new approach: we need a new strategic partnership with Russia.
The Iraq war has shown that Russia is part of a European area of cooperation.
The spearhead of this partnership could be Russia's modernisation and its civil society movement.
Cooperation on energy, an area where still only a little has been achieved, could give a boost to its economy.
Russia must put the Investments Protection Agreement in order.
The country must be made a member of the WTO as soon as possible, and given a certain role to play in European security cooperation.
In winter the solid ice cover there is 70 centimetres thick and the pack ice is anything up to 20 metres high.
Mr President, it is the opinion of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party that the resolution agreed among the groups will provide a good basis for the work of the EU-Russia Summit.
The position taken here is forward-looking and constructive, although it also has criticisms to make.
The resolution will also be of use with regard to the Parliamentary Cooperation Committee meeting between the European Parliament and the Russian Duma to be held in Moscow next week.
For my own part I would like to stress that we must try to narrow the economic and social differences that exist on all the Union's external borders.
With the border between the EU and Russia becoming much longer than before, we must make dramatic improvements to cross-border cooperation.
For cooperation in the border regions we need a new system of funding.
We have to create a new system of funding that can be used on the Union's other external borders too.
I would like, in the first place, to highlight our responsibility and the chances we have of a strategic partnership in the area of security policy.
I believe it to be of great significance that the European Union and Russia are, by means of the strategic development of their relations, contributing to multilateralism, helping to strengthen international law, to advance international cooperation, the UN, international agreements and disarmament.
Secondly, there is a need for our economic relations with Russia to develop further in terms of substance and of quality.
I believe that to make economic sense, and that it could make a very close relationship between the European Union and Russia irreversible.
What this means is that the restrictions on the freedom of the press, the hounding of journalists, the massive political pressure on the justice system, conditions in prisons and, not least, the human rights violations in the war on the Chechen people must have a central place in the summit talks and must not be allowed to appear only as the dessert course at the final banquet.
Concessions in economic relations and help with military research must be made conditional on significant improvements in the human rights situation in Russia, and on the country's respect for fundamental rights.
This leads me to ask you to reverse the priorities at this summit and not give centre stage to economic relations in the way you have done today.
Mr President, two bloody terrorist attacks in Chechnya and Saudi Arabia at the beginning of this week underline the necessity of an international campaign against international terrorism.
It is precisely this political urgency that demands an effective approach.
The draft resolution before us says nothing about this worrying situation in the Northern Caucasus.
Paragraph 4 of the draft resolution welcomes the active participation of both the EU and Russia in the Middle East peace process.
The resolution even goes so far as to praise the Russian military forces for their peacekeeping efforts.
However, by the same token, it is lying to us and telling us stories because the issue is not that which the President-in-Office of the Council outlined.
From time to time, he rebels and draws up a report, which you mentioned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in which he speaks about the daily policy of terror implemented by the Russian authorities in Chechnya.
Without President Maskadov, peace will not be possible and no political solution will be possible in Chechnya.
As far as Chechnya is concerned, it is clear that we must demand that human rights be respected, just as much as we must condemn terrorism, which again claimed civilian victims only a few days ago.
I am pleased about this honesty, and I therefore hope that the Commission's approach will in actual fact prevail.
As for the advice that has been given - 15 plus 1 - I hope that the EU will reject it.
I also in actual fact believe that it is a little too optimistic to do as some of us in Parliament have done and talk in terms of our having the same basis of values.
There is a risk of the EU not being so unanimous in its approach to Russia as this debate suggests.
If disagreement arises on issues of this type and if the Commission's and the Council's attitude does not then prevail, we shall have relations between the EU and Russia similar to those we have today between the EU and the United States, that is to say relations characterised by division.
I am pleased that both the Commission and the Council addressed the environmental issues.
The precise objective of the meetings being held is to promote the objectives which we too have in accordance with the ambitions, values and principles that we want to promote.
I know of no procedure which quickly results in changes, in solutions to problems which have dragged on.
The solution for Kaliningrad is progressing to timetable and I think that it is progressing satisfactorily.
As far as the Northern Dimension is concerned, we are currently preparing the new action plan and the Commission is preparing a first draft which we shall subsequently process within the framework of the Council.
We consider that the Northern Dimension must continue to be an important development tool in our relations with Russia.
They need a long-term perspective and strategy and a method that does not create confrontations and contradictory situations on basic strategic choices by the European Union and Europe as a whole.
Mr Oostlander, I am able to inform you that, while the agreement between Russia and Lithuania is in the process of being concluded, the duma has given a firm undertaking that the border agreement with Lithuania will be ratified by the end of this month.
Bearing this in mind, the Council would ask the honourable Member to put the question to the Commission, because the Commission is competent for ascertaining progress with regard to the application of Community law by the Member States.
Certainly the Commission has a responsibility for the application of Community legislation but the Council cannot also be without responsibility for the fact that a Member State is not applying an important directive.
And of course, in relation to the original question, today there is a presidential decree - a month ago - it has of course changed - but the presidential decree died in its infancy because the Civil Court of Appeal of Crete found in judgment 466 in 2002 that it contradicted the basic provisions of the Community directive.
I can do no more than repeat my question to the President-in-Office with this new information.
I have nothing to say other than to ask the honourable Member to put his question to the Commission.
Question No 2 by Josu Ortuondo Larrea (H-0217/03): Subject: War against Iraq: Aerial refuelling of B-52 bombers over European cities The Basque Country and the whole of north-eastern Spain have been taken by surprise at newspaper reports on the route followed by B-52 bombers between their base at Fairford (England) and Iraq.
Should the EU not reproach Mr Aznar and his government for allowing these dangerous operations to be conducted and for supporting and participating in the illegal war against Iraq?
In the meantime, the US cleared and fenced off 105 hectares of land contaminated with radioactivity in a large area which was closed to the Spanish people and referred to as Camp Wilson.
Question No 4 by Bernd Posselt (H-0223/03): Subject: Reforming the Dayton Agreement How does the Council Presidency view the notion of reforming the Dayton Agreement in such a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina would be converted from a community of three peoples and two entities into a federation of three peoples with equal rights?
Equal rights between the peoples that make up Bosnia-Herzegovina are enshrined in the constitution, as set out in Annex 4 to the peace agreement, and have been confirmed by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In an important decision in September 2000, the court ruled that the express recognition of Bosnians, Croatians and Serbs in the constitution of Bosnia-Herzegovina, as peoples that make up the country, brooks just one interpretation: that they enjoy equality as groups.
It also states that the constitutional principle of collective equality between peoples that make up the country, which derives from the definition of Bosnians, Croatians and Serbs as the peoples that make up the country, prohibits any special privilege for any one of these peoples, any predominance of one side in government structures or any ethnic homogenisation as the result of divisions on a territorial basis.
The constitution of the Srpska Republic and of the Federation was amended further to this judgment, in order to remove the contested provisions.
A new law was also passed in order to safeguard the representation of the three peoples that make up the country at all levels of governance and throughout the public sector.
The European Union is continuing via the stability and association process to promote democratisation, the rule of law and economic reform as means of promoting the rights of the minorities and as a means of promoting equal opportunities for all citizens.
Insofar as it is feasible, you may see it but, as you will understand, you cannot also intervene in a series of very internal affairs in these countries without this being seen as another form of intervention.
Generally speaking, I would say that the Council has turned its attention on numerous occasions to initiatives and proposals as to how to limit the problems and difficulties which small and medium-sized enterprises have with their access to the market.
As far as the procedure under which the Council takes decision in the taxation sector is concerned, it should be noted that the relevant rules are provided for in the Treaty and no one can ask the Council to change those rules.
Our twenty-five different tax systems result in distortions of competition in the internal market; small and medium-sized businesses are put at a disadvantage, particularly when operating across borders; and, of course, unanimous voting in the Council on tax matters creates problems when it comes to strengthening the internal market and the European economy.
The honourable Member is talking about structural problems on the internal market and so on.
Consequently, there is no problem of a small enterprise facing 25 or 15 different tax systems and, consequently, of being oppressed or foundering, in contrast to the potential of a large enterprise.
I should like to remind you of the problems which a small enterprise in southern Germany has in penetrating even the markets of northern Germany, or a small enterprise based in Athens has in extending and covering large sections of the market in its own country.
They exist in my country, to give you an example, and I know that they exist in many countries in which the tax system for small and medium-sized enterprises and a series of subsidies which are allowed within the framework of the rules of competition aim precisely to strengthen these companies.
What I want to ask is: what will the Council do in order to get its hands on this study, and how will it deal with the problem of tax reform in such a way that small and medium-sized enterprises can meet the requirements of Basle II?
There are numerous cases in which, for objective reasons, the European Commission may be late submitting a study.
It has also happened to us on other occasions during the course of the Greek Presidency.
Of course, on the basis of this study - and I do not think that one study will resolve all the problems - and any proposals that may be made, we shall see how we are going to respond.
The ?U closely monitored the case of Amina Lawal, who was sentenced last year to death by stoning, and we expressed our deep concern in a declaration on 21 ?ugust 2002 about the decision by the court of appeal rejecting Amina Lawal's appeal.
The ?U will continue to exert pressure within the framework of political dialogue and at various levels, especially through the head of missions in Abuja, stressing that Nigeria must ensure that the constitution remains the supreme law in its country.
Amina Lawal's defence formulated the opinion that supportive action should be taken in a discreet and confidential manner due to the constitutional problems which arise from the application of Sharia law in certain states.
The ?U has taken this advice on board and is of the opinion that, as long as the case is not considered to be pending, it is better to follow a general approach, such as that I referred to earlier, and not to individualise the case.
Within these frameworks, the ?U has repeated its position on the death penalty and encouraged the Nigerian Government to continue to work for the abolition of the death penalty and for the prevention of any form of harsh, inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment.
Therefore, I hope that the Council will take further action to ensure that this does not continue and also to seek out where other convictions of a similar nature have taken place.
I should like to point out that the Council is especially sensitive to more general issues which relate both to human rights and, in all events, to practices of this sort by certain countries in the global system as far as the general part is concerned.
I do not know the answer to your question at this moment in time.
In order to implement the objectives of the partnership, the Cotonou Agreement clearly stipulates that the ACP countries shall determine the development strategies for their economies and societies with full sovereignty.
Programming of these resources, in other words the preparation of the strategic support for each country, which is based on the particular medium-term objectives and on the development strategies of the country, and the introduction of an indicative timetable for implementing the support strategy for each country have almost been completed.
The Commission announced its intention to use the reserves of the ninth EDF mainly to finance the Community contribution to international initiatives for the benefit of developing countries, such as debt reduction and health.
These sectors are: the link between trade and development, regional integration and cooperation, support for macro-economic policies, the promotion of equal access to social services, transport, food security, sustainable rural development and, finally, the creation of an institutional infrastructure.
The Council supports the Commission's efforts to mange the Community's external aid more efficiently and to use EDF funds in accordance with the objectives and criteria of the Cotonou Agreement.
It was a very comprehensive reply indeed, but one of the issues I have discovered, over almost thirty years of involvement in development, is the lack of emphasis on education.
The reason I put this question to the Council was to try and establish whether the Council and the European Union can put more emphasis on education, because in developing countries if you have the three basics - reading, writing and arithmetic - even at the simplest level, you can challenge the village elders and the leaders in your community.
The Council acknowledges that the general situation as regards the Doha negotiations on development matters is far from satisfactory, mainly because the deadlines were not kept to as regards certain sectors, such as the details of access to pharmaceuticals and the details in the agricultural sector.
The impasse on pharmaceuticals was due to the refusal on the part of the United States to agree to the solution which was accepted by almost all the other countries.
Despite these difficulties, however, it is fundamental at the present juncture to maintain the momentum of negotiations within the framework of the WTO and to make fundamental progress in the run up to the Cancún conference.
Finally, the Council does not share the pessimistic views formulated by certain commentators as regards the Cancún conference.
The problems which need to be resolved before Cancún are numerous but it is not the first time that we have worked to tight deadlines in trade negotiations.
As far as agriculture is concerned, the Council confirmed its support at its meeting on 8 April 2003 for the Community proposal on the details in the agricultural sector and urged the Commission to continue its efforts so that an agreement can be reached on this basis because, in its opinion, this is the most realistic means of completing the negotiations in accordance with the timetable laid down in the Doha ministerial declaration.
I am sure he will be aware of efforts to reach agreement on the reform of the common agricultural policy in advance of the World Trade Agreement and the June deadline, which the committee has set.
The question of nuclear safety generally concerns the Council, which fully supports achieving a high standard of nuclear safety throughout the European Union.
The current Community legislation on the safety of nuclear facilities is based mainly on Chapter 3 in Title ??
Indeed, if you look at the Treaties that give the legal basis and authority to the Member States and to the different institutions to take action, the Council can in fact take action under the Euratom Treaty.
It is essential to have that commitment now, at a time when the nuclear industry is saying that nuclear power can be good for Kyoto and good for the environment.
As I mentioned, there is the Commission proposal which is being examined by the Council and, if the Council so concludes, there may be a basis for examining this sort of request.
The Greek Presidency, continuing the efforts of the previous presidency, has been trying since January to progress as best it can with an examination of the legislative proposals for reforming the common agricultural policy, including of course the proposal for a regulation on rural development.
According to the latest information given to me on developments in the relevant Council, I might add that I am optimistic about progress with this work.
The debate on reforms during these first six months should allow the Council, following the opinion also of the European Parliament, to reach an agreement on all the reform proposals in June.
During discussions which have already been held on all the proposals, these aspects of the proposals were generally well received and the importance which needs to be attached to these issues, and the rural development of peripheral areas in particular, was emphasised.
In addition, the Council and the Commission are aware of the fact that funding under the CAP must comply with the conclusions of the European Council in Berlin on financial ceilings and with the conclusions of the European Council in Brussels in October 2002.
I thank the President-in-Office for that comprehensive reply.
I just want to say, as somebody who comes from a peripheral area of the west of Ireland, that the European rural model is seriously endangered by the various enactments of the European Union in many cases, especially in the reform of the common agricultural policy.
I would ask that this be taken into consideration, because that has been the foundation of the rural model that the European Union put in place.
It was clear from my reply that I agree that this model has an important role in the operation of European agriculture; we are in the process of examining how to proceed.
I should like to refer to the remarks made by the President-in-Office and Mr Ó Neachtain.
President-in-Office, you mentioned in your first answer the need to stay within the parameters of the Berlin Agreement of 1999.
Two years before that, in 1997, we had the Cork Declaration stating the need for a vibrant and innovative rural development policy to combat emigration from rural areas and the ensuing social problems this created in urban areas.
As you know yourself, with regard to your own country, peripheral areas and islands suffer unique disadvantages and hazards that must be responded to in a common and complex way.
The ?U is closely monitoring the situation as regards respect for the human rights of women in Afghanistan.
In its contacts with the Afghan Transitional Administration, the ?U constantly and incessantly stresses that the rights of Afghan women and the promotion of their full and equal participation in every aspect of public life are an important reference point for the evaluation of the performance of the Afghan Transitional Administration and for defining subsequent EU policy towards Afghanistan.
On 14 April the Council approved conclusions in which it underlined, among other things, the importance of including the mainstreaming of gender awareness into the policy of the Afghan Transitional Administration and in which it urged the establishment of a constitutional framework for the promotion and protection of human rights, especially with regard to women and girls.
The Afghan Minister for Foreign Affairs, who met the EU ministers in April 2003, subscribes to these conclusions.
The ministries are recruiting women and, generally speaking, a lot of women have returned to their work outside the home.
One very positive step was the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women on 5 March.
However, the Council indeed acknowledges that the situation of women is still unacceptable as regards the possibilities of education and work, as regards their legal protection or their full and equal participation in public life, despite the examples to which I referred.
Similarly, women are the main victims of insecurity, which threatens their life and their dignity.
The EU special representative, together with the representatives of the Commission and the Member States, regularly evaluate the achievement of the objectives of the policy of the European Union, including in the field of women's rights and shall, if they deem necessary, submit recommendations on further action to be taken on the part of the ?U.
Finally, the Council will also pay special attention to the role of women in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Firstly, I want to thank the Council for its answer.
Unfortunately it contained very little on the issue of the situation of women in Iraq.
Mrs Elisabeth Rehn, my predecessor here in Parliament, wrote a very influential report dealing with the situation of women in both war and peace.
She pointed out that it will be more difficult for women when there is peace.
I said in my position that the situation of women in Afghanistan does indeed correspond to the problematic picture to which you too referred.
The Council is trying with all the means at its disposal to influence this situation.
As the author is not present, Question No 13 lapses.
Question No 14 by José Ribeiro e Castro (H-0243/03): Subject: Cuba: policy review The European Union has been developing a policy of constructive dialogue with Cuba.
In its regular evaluation of the EU's common position on Cuba, the Council always underlines its approach of open and constructive dialogue with Cuba on all matters of common interest.
The Council has reiterated that the objectives of the policy of the European Union on Cuba remain the encouragement of a process of transition to a pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable economic recovery and a better standard of living for the population.
The ?U monitors the situation in Cuba on a regular basis.
The Council has taken due account of the resolution passed by the European Union on 10 April, which reinforces the EU's position against these measures.
At its meeting on 14 April, the Council of the European Union approved the following conclusions: 'The Council condemns the recent actions of the Cuban authorities, notably the executions, the large-scale arrests of dissidents, the unfair trials and the arbitrary and excessive sentences imposed.
It calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
These latest developments, which mark a further deterioration in the human rights situation in Cuba, will affect the EU's relationship with Cuba and the prospects for increased cooperation.
The ?U roundly condemns the recent executions of Cuban citizens carried out following summary trials and expresses its regret that the moratorium on the death penalty in the country has come to an end.
These latest developments, which mark a further deterioration in the human rights situation in the country, will affect the ?U's relationship with Cuba and the prospects for increased cooperation.
I referred to the declarations made by the Council and numerous, perhaps all, the Member States condemning recent developments in Cuba.
The Council is particularly sensitive to this issue, and discussed it at its last meeting and decided to issue these declarations of condemnation.
Especially in the context of this week here in Strasbourg, a week when we in the European Parliament begin a process of pre-integrating our political colleagues and friends from the accession states through the observer process.
We have observers here today from the parliaments of the accession states and, of course, observers from the Sjem and the Senate in Poland.
I am very pleased also that we can welcome you here today, Mr President, to acknowledge the role which your country has played in bringing all of us in Europe to this point in our integration and re-integration.
I also pay tribute to you personally for the role you have played in the transformation and transition in the Republic of Poland.
From this platform, I should like through you to send a message to the people of Poland.
We said, on behalf of the 360 million European Union citizens that we represent, 'yes' to Poland by more than 90%.
We think also of the common identity that our histories combine to bring us: Westerplatte, Katyn, the two Warsaw uprisings are important pages in our common history.
Your compatriots, led by Lech Walesa, set this peaceful revolution in train.
I recall a famous poster, as I think we all do, from the streets of Prague in November 1989, that read: Poland - 10 years, Hungary - 10 months, GDR - 10 weeks, Czechoslovakia - 10 days.
You have visited citizens in Plock and Gorzow, and yesterday, despite an extraordinary storm, in Bialystok.
Mr President, I am pleased to be here to discuss the Commission's proposal for a new directive on Community measures for the control of foot and mouth disease.
This proposal aims to provide greater flexibility to the Member States in their choice of the most appropriate control strategy under particular socio-economic conditions, thus conferring more responsibility for the measures applied, notably in relation to compliance with relevant public health and environmental requirements.
Our fundamental position on prophylactic vaccination for FMD remains unchanged.
This position reflects the current status of vaccine development, the divergent nature of the causative virus and the serious trade implications any turn towards prophylactic vaccination would provoke.
Stamping out of infected animals and those likely to promulgate the disease remains the principal method to effectively counteract any outbreak.
The Commission is fully aware that protecting the current animal health status is a very challenging objective, given globalisation of trade, frequent movement of persons, the nature of the virus and the fact that it is endemic in large parts of the world.
The proposal therefore includes also provisions on the Community antigen bank, diagnostic laboratories and contingency planning, in order to ensure a high level of disease preparedness.
In so doing, we are coming to the end of a very important chapter, and I would like to take this opportunity of again, and very warmly, thanking all Members, as well as the secretariat and, most especially, the Commission for their excellent cooperation.
That much we know, and that is why it would be impossible to justify banning the marketing of products derived from animals vaccinated in the course of an outbreak.
We must, however, vote against the Committee's Amendment No 32, which I do not believe takes adequate account of the present position in international law.
In the Netherlands, twenty-five million animals have already been slaughtered, and the disease has now appeared in Germany as well.
The strategy must involve ethics just as much as it does economics.
In its report, Parliament has very clearly outlined the economic and social consequences of a strategy failing to hit the mark.
In the same way, we have to consider how, in future, we can recoup the costs, whether by way of national funds or in conjunction with a European Epizootic Fund, and who is to be compensated - only those immediately affected, whose animals were slaughtered, or all those who sustained financial losses.
I hope that the future will find us able to break through the vicious circle of killing and isolating.
Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to begin by complimenting the rapporteur highly on the way in which he has cooperated with the various groups and also on the very commendable result.
He has produced a very good report in response to the Commissioner's legislative proposals.
I should also like to thank the Commission and Commissioner Byrne for his speedy reaction to the own-initiative report of Parliament based on investigations we had carried out.
This augurs well for good cooperation between the Commission and Parliament, in achieving, now and in the future, an effective approach to combating animal disease epidemics.
At the same time, Mr President, I must say on behalf of my group that the parliamentary investigation has taught us just how shattering the outbreak of animal diseases can be.
It cannot be denied that the risks of infectious animal diseases are growing in a world where borders are becoming increasingly transparent and where there is ever more international trade.
We want to keep animals outside, we want to see cows in the fields, and we want to see chickens and pigs ranging freely.
That means that we cannot leave the consequences solely at the door of the farmers but must as politicians reflect on how we can tackle these risks in future.
In that respect, the Kreissl-Dörfler report is a good initial step.
If there is a new outbreak we can then at least ensure that through a fundamental change of policy, perhaps also through vaccination, we can achieve a much more effective approach to and control of a number of epidemic animal diseases, in this case foot and mouth disease.
Mr President, I am glad that we have been able to take a step forward regarding the combating of foot and mouth disease.
Once again I appeal to the Commission to examine how we can take social responsibility for those major animal diseases, such as fowl pest, such as swine fever, and in this case foot and mouth, in order to arrive at a coherent policy.
But, once again, the Group of the European People's Party is glad that we have managed to take a first step in relation to this foot and mouth dossier.
The first concerns political responsibility.
Mr President, at the height of the 2001 outbreak of foot and mouth disease the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party formulated three principles: how can we prevent such outbreaks from recurring, what are we to do if there is another outbreak and how can we pay for such outbreaks in future?
At the end of May we shall have a report on the subject.
The courses of action set in motion in the Member States affected were unable to prevent the spread of the virus.
As far as FMD is concerned, all is quiet in the candidate countries, but I would like to take this opportunity to observe that this state of affairs can change rapidly.
Criminal activity in border areas involving the trade in animals belongs in another law, but the report sets out the right approach to this, too.
I am particularly pleased to see that vaccination has been promoted to being a vital tool in the fight against foot and mouth - this shift in emphasis that Commissioner Byrne spoke about.
But as far as our own Parliamentary report is concerned, I would like to make sure that we stick with the text agreed in committee, which talks very clearly about vaccination as a tool of first resort.
That is the language of the Royal Society report in the United Kingdom.
But we have recognised that in Britain over 10 million animals were slaughtered, many unnecessarily.
Some people have already forgotten that, but the farmers and communities that went through that terrible time have certainly not forgotten it and many are only now beginning to put their lives back together again.
I hope that this report and the Commission initiative will be another step in the process of ensuring that such devastation can never be allowed to happen again, either in the United Kingdom or anywhere else in the European Union.
Mr President, while we are considering this evening how to combat FMD in future, animals and farmers are being hit by the next infectious animal disease, fowl pest.
In the new directive set out by the Commission, concern for creation still receives scant attention.
Products of vaccinated animals are no less safe than those of non-vaccinated animals.
Emergency vaccination costs the European Union less money, while a Member State is subsequently forced to incur costs to market the products.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the key element in this debate today on foot and mouth disease is the constraints imposed by the OIE with regard to the trade sanctions inflicted on countries that no longer enjoy 'foot and mouth disease free' status.
I therefore endorse our rapporteur's proposal in Amendment No 5 to recital 14 to the effect that the Member States should submit proposals to the OIE to modify trade sanctions in these situations.
To be more precise, this change to the OIE rules must take two forms.
Firstly, consideration must be given to the progress made on vaccines - marker vaccines, which make it possible to distinguish a vaccinated animal from an infected animal, and more general vaccines - and we must remember that products from vaccinated animals - dairy or meat - pose no danger to human health nor any risk of contagion.
Therefore, there is no longer any reason to discriminate against these products or the countries where they are available.
Finally, and I am sorry that this point that I raised during the work of our Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease was not taken up by the rapporteur, we must not lose sight of the fact that certain changes in European agriculture, which have been facilitated by shifts in a certain CAP, are in themselves risk factors for the spread of diseases.
At a time, Mr President, when Parliament will have to state its position on the mid-term review of the CAP, we must endeavour to remedy these shifts rather than amplify them by giving priority to human-sized farms, extensive breeding in the least favoured regions, the local integration of activities and local abattoirs; in short, agriculture with a human face.
First of all there was his report on behalf of the temporary committee and now there is the report on the Commission's legislation.
Vaccination is not the only tool in our armoury, but it must be fully and effectively used from the beginning of any outbreak.
We must never again see the mass slaughter of ten million animals - our citizens will not accept it.
After an outbreak that brought our rural communities to their knees, we only have four sniffer dogs to try and prevent contaminated meat entering the country.
I simply want to say to the rapporteur that the way in which he did this job, both on the temporary committee and subsequently, is a template for the way in which this work should be done.
The arguments will always return to the exact relationship between stamping out through culling and vaccination - whether to live or die - in a society that both cherishes its FMD-free status, yet has proper moral scruples about the means in extremis employed to return to it.
As has been said during the current SARS outbreak, the virus had its own rage to survive.
Finally, we should take special measures, as others have said, to preserve rare breeds, an indispensable part of the animal gene pool, so that they are not swept away by some new pandemic.
The tenor of this debate will be set by the degree to which we can also preserve our humanity and life in all its infinite variety.
I want at the same time to say that foot and mouth disease is so infectious that anyone who believes that all the problems are solved merely by opening the way for vaccination and who is also sure of being able in future to contain a future outbreak of the disease will have to think again, for that is not the way foot and mouth disease works.
That is not something for which there appears to be a majority right now, but it must be remembered in this regard that the vaccinated animals are of course disease carriers, and, given that fact, it would be a disaster if any of these animals were to pass on the disease.
Although I am aware that this is not Commissioner Byrne's area, I shall again draw attention to the fact that there is a need for export agreements, particularly with the Americans, so that we contain the losses there might be in connection with a future epidemic of foot and mouth disease and, especially, in connection with possible vaccination.
To have reached this final stage is a positive advertisement for the European Parliament.
Central to the UK Government's mishandling of the 2001 crisis was its lack of a clear-cut policy on whether and when vaccination should have been used.
Mr President, there are situations in which emergency vaccination is very sensible, but there is no reason for causing difficulties in terms of exports.
The problem arises due to the fact that the veterinary borders have been removed in connection with the introduction of the internal market.
The Commission should, from the beginning, have taken account of the risk of third countries' introducing trade restrictions.
It must of course be possible to change the vaccination strategy, partly so that what are otherwise good intentions are not pursued at the expense of the EU's absolutely vital export interests.
Mr President, I am very alarmed that no real effort has been made to act on the experiences that the UK had during the devastating outbreak of foot and mouth.
We have a right, in this Parliament, to demand that there ought to be real action right across the European Union to put into place a strategy to defeat this terrible disease, should it again break forth.
In Northern Ireland there are no such structures in place.
The veterinary experts have told me that they are quite appalled at the apathy of the government in this field.
How different this experience has been in the United States of America.
I strongly believe that Parliament should endorse the opinion of the report before it.
The report points to a real way forward, in the fields both of preparation and deterrence.
I trust that we have learned our lessons from the past in order to be able, next time, to act with more responsibility and coordination.
The outbreak of FMD in the European Union in 2001 was a disaster not only for agriculture but also for many related enterprises and organisations.
After the last case and after the slaughter of the last vaccinated animal it is necessary to regain FMD status.
FMD-vaccinated animals are not infectious when they get into the food chain.
Marker vaccines to distinguish vaccinated animals from animals carrying the virus will have a major role to play in this area in the future.
With serious financial losses now for many years in livestock enterprises, we cannot take for granted any longer the existence of rural large-animal veterinary practices, especially in our remote areas, let alone the development of urgently needed herd-health surveillance programmes involving routine visits by practising vets.
The one thing we can be sure of is not whether there is another outbreak of an exotic disease in the EU, but when.
I would also like to thank the Commission for acceding to my plea for a special protocol for non-susceptible animals, in particular equidae.
An emergency must be documented by a veterinary surgeon on call 24 hours per day, 7 days a week.
The transport must be authorised by the competent authorities, but they must be contactable 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
I thank the Commission and the authorities concerned for including for the first time a protocol in an FMD contingency plan for a non-susceptible species.
The proposal has been subject to in-depth analysis in the technical expert working groups chaired by the Greek Presidency in the Council.
The Commission has received wide support for the general policy laid down in this proposal, not least because it is a carefully considered, pragmatic reform, rather than a revolution.
The Commission notes with satisfaction the general support of this House for the increased emphasis on emergency vaccination.
I note, however, that some Members would have liked us to go even further in this regard, but to do so would have compromised the fundamental elements of choice and flexibility that we are aiming to promote.
In the report of the Committee on Agriculture, 48 amendments are proposed.
The Commission can, in fact, agree with 47 out of the 48 amendments tabled.
The Commission cannot agree to Amendment No 32 which, although in line with the report of the Scientific Committee of 1999, is against the current rules of the OIE.
The proposal before us today does not address Community rules on the veterinary funds because the principles of our control policy have not changed.
That responsibility rests with the Member States.
However, as a matter of prudence, the Member States are advised to inform and get clearance from the Commission before embarking on this for a number of reasons, not least funding for compensation and also to ensure that there is an agreement with other Member States in the event of cross-border trade.
Mr Whitehead asked me about research on vaccines.
The debate is closed.
We should not be surprised, therefore, that the idea of capacity-building as an essential factor in improving the results of development policies has been gaining ground, in particular since the Rio Declaration of 1992, which recognises the fact that a country's ability to follow the path of sustainable development is largely determined by the capacity of its people and institutions.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation, which fully agrees with this principle, therefore organised a public hearing a few months ago on capacity-building and then agreed that a report should be drawn up on the subject, for which I was given responsibility as rapporteur.
All this should take place in support of national efforts to be carried out by each country for itself based on the plan drawn up by each country according to their specific interests and needs along the lines of what is being done, in particular, with strategy documents for each country.
We should provide them with the means - in a word - to play a leading role in their own development, to which they have a right.
That, Commissioner, is why there is a need - I would say an imperative - for a Commission communication in this regard, to instigate action in the field of development aid from the European Union and its Member States and also the various formulas contained in the motion for a resolution on which we are to vote.
It is the main element in our overall policy statement dating back to November 2000, and adopted also by Parliament.
Particularly relevant are the need to adapt capacity building to the context and the rather broad notion of capacity building, which includes not only the 'classic' inputs such as 'training and materials', but also a range of innovative aspects.
The different priority sectors mentioned also show an innovative approach to institutional development; the security issue, in particular, has indeed become one of the new political concerns.
There is interest in the issue and, in principle, there is a readiness to provide funds.
If we really want to promote ownership, this situation has to change.
Finally, I agree with the criticism of the problems in assessing the impact of the Community-financed interventions within our statistics in the Commission.
It is one of many aspects of the same problem that we are working on.
The communication will deal with this issue by devoting a chapter to current practices within the Commission and lessons learned.
The recommendations of the rapporteur in this respect are very welcome.
Mr President, if the world were a village with a population of one hundred, 61 would be Asian, 13 African, 12 European, eight North American and six South American.
Two or three of the people in the village would have an Internet connection at their disposal.
The World Bank classifies those living on an income of less than one dollar a day as the absolutely poor.
Many local communities, which have not been stripped of their natural resources or where the natural resources have not been destroyed, which have sufficient food and shelter, and where the community culture thrives, may be at least as good places to live as cities in rich countries.
One consequence of globalisation, however, is that many members of what was once a prosperous local community become members of the global community and suffer as a result.
I would also like to emphasise how important it is for people to have a right to their own natural resources.
It is an endogenic process, by means of which a society increases its social capital, through the activities of individuals, organisations and institutions, in order to carry out its duties and set and achieve its objectives in every field.
Strengthening democratic institutions is one of the matters pending cooperation in general and Community cooperation in particular.
The Socialist Group considers education to be a sine qua non condition for development and reducing poverty, as we pointed out in the Community budget.
On average, people in Africa are still 50 kilometres away from the nearest telephone, let alone from the Internet.
Thank you very much, Mrs Junker.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Across the world, 113 million children are still not receiving any education, and approximately two-thirds of these are girls.
Primarily, of course, developing countries themselves have to make approximately 20% of their budgets available for basic social services such as education and health care.
The North must commit itself to the aim of together having produced additional resources for education by 2015.
Some countries have to increase their total contribution, whilst others, within theirs, have to move funds over to education.
Fortunately, the European Union has a special responsibility in the field of education.
Europe's share of the figure of EUR 8 billion per year mentioned earlier is available.
As the Commissioner knows, the Parliament is no advocate of granting budget support just like that, because money intended for education, for example, is then often used for completely different purposes, as we saw from the recent example of money being spent on defence in Uganda.
I am enormously pleased that my report can already be regarded as outdated on that point on account of the Commission's pledge to finance the first seven countries.
Unfortunately, on many other points my report is very current, and by no means outdated.
In the post-conflict situations in Afghanistan and Iraq, education remains imperative, precisely because these are situations in which reconstruction is to be achieved from devastation and a heap of rubble.
Benin and Gambia recently abolished school fees for girls, and Eritrea, for years ravaged by war, was recently awarded the International Literacy Prize.
Ownership by our partner countries and complementarity with other donors are also vital aspects.
In fact, when we talk about this, not only focusing on the actions of the Commission, we should take a tour around Europe and clarify what each of our Member States is doing, because complementarity is supposed to work both ways.
Of course it is a privilege for the Commission to have an organised dialogue with Parliament on all occasions.
We support education both through budgetary support and sector funding.
The Commission's communication on this subject also opens up the possibility for the Commission to fund recurrent expenditure in education budgets of partner countries.
Our partner countries have to improve the efficiency and quality of their education systems and, as regards donors, a flexible attitude toward financing mechanisms is necessary.
The first priority in our education policy is basic education - six-year primary school.
This is in line with the Millennium Development Goals on education, which give priority to universal primary education.
The second priority is to ensure a balanced strategy encompassing secondary and higher education, vocational training and adult literacy.
Work-related training is of particular importance in countries that have attained an acceptable level of schooling as a first step.
In particular, more attention should be given to the impact of HIV/Aids on education systems and the role of education in preventing HIV/Aids and in improving health in general.
Furthermore, the Community policy focuses on the needs of the poorest countries and poorest people, with particular attention to women, orphans and children in conflict and post-conflict areas.
The communication highlights that resources for education and training must be substantially increased, so the slogan about doubling the effort is very meaningful.
We work with other donors to agree on common, but country-specific indicators.
Mr President, I also wish to commend and thank Mr Van den Berg for his excellent efforts on this most important of issues.
If there were only 100 people living on this earth, 15 would be illiterate.
While societies enter into the information and knowledge society and modern technologies develop and spread at rapid speed, 860 million adults are illiterate.
Over 100 million children have no access to school and countless children, youths and adults who attend school or other education programmes fall short of the required level to be considered literate in today's complex world and society.
One of the main effects of low or no income is lack of education, insufficient schooling or, worse, lack of access to school education, which is one of the single most limiting factors in life.
The poor have no access at all to training.
Those deprived of an education or skills and vocational training have difficulty in finding work or developing their business talents.
Insufficient education also prevents lots of people from knowing their rights or the benefits to which they are entitled.
The proportion of Community aid spent in low-income countries has fallen from 70% in 1990 to 38% now.
Although, as I said, the European Union is the world's largest aid donor, the Commission and Member States should give this area greater financial attention as it is through investing in education in developing countries that we can begin to put an end to poverty.
In fact, many fora and macroconferences have already been held in relation to the need to increase efforts to eradicate poverty, which is undoubtedly the most serious problem we face.
It is something of a coincidence that, with the resources now available, it will not be possible to achieve the objectives set for 2015.
It is good, however, that, within our limited means, we are focusing our attention on health and education, which are so closely linked and interdependent.
It has been clearly shown that health and education, education and health, are the best policies for development, that they enable millions of human beings to escape poverty.
In Africa, for example, 60% of children today attend school, which means that 40% are still not attending.
In other words, 45 million children are condemned to illiteracy and poverty, probably for life.
The problems of gender segregation are still causing an unsustainable situation in some Asian and Middle Eastern countries.
In Latin America investment in education has dropped alarmingly over the past few years of crisis throughout the region, and this affects ethnic minorities in particular, as the Commissioner has pointed out today, in Brazil, Ecuador, Guatemala, but also in countries such as Argentina, which until now had an excellent education system but is now moving backwards.
I feel it is particularly necessary for international financial organisations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, to review their criteria and make them more flexible in order to promote free, universal education.
That is now one of the priorities we must address and try to achieve some progress in this specific area.
Mr President, I do not think anyone in this Chamber tonight would disagree with the concerns about the education crisis in our world: 115 million children worldwide do not attend school and two in five children in Africa receive no education whatsoever.
Nevertheless, the Commissioner will not be surprised that we continue tonight the debate about the budget we have had with him for four years.
There is a need to move more consistently in the budget to ensure that Commission support goes to the education sector.
We should support initiatives like those promoted by UNESCO in its Education for All Global Monitoring Report that ensures the budgetary support of all international donors goes to the education sector.
As my colleague just said, we should soberly recognise that on current trends the UN Millennium Development Goal of getting all children into basic education by 2015 - the most achievable and affordable of all those development goals - is going to fall short by 70 countries.
The right to education and access to education are often empty words in developing countries.
They have to help with the housework, they have to contribute to the daily provision of food for the whole family, they have to look after the infants, they have to sell any leftovers at market and they have to fetch drinking water.
Only through education can a country develop, only through an adequately educated population can a country progress.
Only when women were given reasonable schooling and access to education did emancipation take off in all sectors of society, including politics.
As the rapporteur rightly says in the notes to his report, educated women have more opportunities for improving the economic situation of themselves and their family, and even down to their choice of husband.
The individual personal development of women also offers more protection against exploitation in all its forms, including prostitution, forced or otherwise, and human trafficking, particularly trafficking in women and children.
I have, despite this, three further observations.
That is the single factor which is significantly undermining all the other work that is being done in the world to reduce poverty.
The financing needed is EUR 8 billion per year.
Primary education must be regarded as being independent of free-market rules and productivity criteria.
That is why the G8 countries must also be reminded of their promise to finance the Fast Track Initiative.
My own experience of cooperation development work reinforces my conviction that it is especially necessary to invest in girls' education.
Women's education is also a way out of the vicious circle, where, for example, many Asian women and girls find themselves: in mortal danger from the womb to the grave, with discrimination starting even before birth and continuing all their life.
It is certain, though, that in the long term, the most important mass medium is radio, which could - and should - be even more widely used as a means of providing education than it has been so far.
It is not, however, generally known that education - particularly basic education - conducted in the predominant regional languages results in a marked increase in the desire for education and reduces parents' misgivings about sending their children to school.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to thank you for your Communication and congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work concerning this fundamental issue of education and training in the context of reducing poverty.
This is not the first time Parliament has addressed this matter and I do not think it will be the last, and not only because for many of us - and for me, of course - achieving obligatory, free, high-quality universal education for all is the absolute priority of development cooperation.
For this reason, I can but agree with the measures proposed to give education its rightful place in development cooperation policy and overcome the obstacles that prevent so many boys and girls from having access to education and, with it, the right to a better life.
Education and training involve an effort to provide opportunities to all individuals, in order to give the greatest number of people the ability to form part of society and to participate in shaping that society.
The European Union has distinguished itself internationally for its adherence to this approach, both in Europe and with regard to those countries whose development we support.
I simply wish to emphasise some points: the importance of the balance between quality and quantity in education, with a decisive commitment to eradicating illiteracy; the importance of involving local actors in the programmes we support, strengthening the practice of decentralised cooperation; a commitment to achieving gender balance - the education and vocational training of girls and women not only have a direct impact on the economy, but also in the medium term, on changing minds and even on liberating societies; the commitment to protecting education, even in times of conflict and following conflicts and the priority to normalise and improve education and training.
Mr President, 65 million girls in the world are deprived of their right to education and we are doing very little to resolve this situation.
The framework presented by the Commission, as stated by Mr van den Berg, contains very few proposals for action that specifically promote education for girls.
This in itself is serious, but it is even more serious if we take into account the fact that babies whose mothers have not had access to education are twice as likely to suffer from malnutrition and die before the age of five than those whose mothers have completed primary education.
Just one or two years of school for the mother reduce the infant death rate by 15%.
The education of mothers is far more effective in reducing malnutrition than any other measure, including the availability of food.
Therefore, and because it is their fundamental right, education must be our priority: high-quality, obligatory, general, public, primary education lasting at least six years.
The right of boys and girls to education cannot be subject to market laws.
However, he should remember that in 1990 there was no expansion of assistance to the central and eastern European countries that are about to join the Union and the activities in the Balkans were not part of the picture.
The reality is that in absolute figures we have not reduced the effort in favour of the least-developed countries and the really poor developing countries, but have increased the effort in other areas.
Finally, Mrs Junker and others mentioned the essential role of regional languages in these primary education systems.
A few months ago in Mali I asked people in a village why they had not started their children at the local primary school a few kilometres away.
There is no easy answer to this question, but it is important to push for a dual solution to it.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The signatory states are now to meet again, in Geneva, from 18 to 20 June.
The Commission shares the concern of the honourable Member that on the international level the rights of audio-visual performers, unlike the rights of authors, oral performers and phonogram producers, have not yet been updated and adapted to the new digital environment.
It recalls that the European Community and its Member States on 26 September 2002, at the WIPO General Assembly, reiterated their continued commitment to a meaningful update of the Rome Convention of 1961 as regards the protection of audio-visual performances in order to provide audio-visual performers with the international protection they deserve.
The Commission attaches great importance to finally settling this issue of unfinished business from the 1996 WIPO Diplomatic Conference, which adopted the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.
While some progress was made on this issue during the WIPO Diplomatic Conference on the Protection of Audio-visual Performances of December 2000, the existing differences could not be bridged during three weeks of intensive negotiations at the conference, nor during other contacts over the last two years.
The European Community and its Member States are committed to resolving this issue and can therefore support the organisation by the WIPO Secretariat of an ad hoc informal meeting in Geneva from 18 to 20 June 2003.
The Commission will actively participate at this meeting, where all participants, including WIPO member states, and interested intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations, should have the opportunity to exchange views and information.
I regret the fact that we did not have time to discuss these issues in committee, but time is pressing upon us, 18 June is getting closer, and it is right that we should today send a strong signal of our resolve to see the WIPO Treaties supplemented as soon as possible in order to bridge this gap and finally bring about the legal protection that audiovisual artists need.
I would like, therefore, to suggest that the Commission should forward to us, not only here in plenary in good time before the conference, but also after it in the relevant specialist committee, a report on the outcome of the negotiations and on the progress that - it is to be hoped - will have been achieved.
We are looking today in the world from which I emerged, at a situation where diversity of output is growing and where the power of those who control that output and buy the rights in it is also growing.
We know precisely what they face because without the protection of treaty they are constantly confronting a larger power - one which has all the power and all the regiments of lawyers you could possibly want - which can smash them down.
It took the great artist Peggy Lee nearly 20 years to outface the Disney Corporation to receive continuing payments for the voiceovers that she had done for some Disney cartoon films.
In conclusion of this debate, I have received a motion for a resolution The next item is the proposal for a Council decision, by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of a letter between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the ecopoint system applicable to Croatian transit traffic through Austria.
This agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters, is foreseen in the Road Transit Protocol to the Interim Agreement between the EC and Croatia on Trade and Related Matters, which took effect on 1 March 2002.
The number of ecopoints and the other administrative aspects of the agreement were agreed in order to ensure non-discriminatory treatment of Community trucks during the validity of the ecopoints system inside the Community.
Like Mrs Schierhuber, I would like to reiterate very briefly that the ecopoint rules as such keeps on being criticised, and I can also see that it cannot be of long-term duration, but what is at issue at present is to what extent these ecopoint rules can or should be extended until 2006, because we are working on the assumption that we will then at last have what is termed the infrastructure costs directive, by which is meant a set of general rules applicable not only to transit traffic, but also to HGV traffic on the roads in general, especially HGVs that are not very environmentally friendly.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
