Also present in the official gallery are members of the Delegation from the Mexican Parliament, made up of a group of senators and deputies, as well as Mrs&#160;Aminetu&#160;Haidar, winner of the Juan María Bandrés Prize&#160;… …&#160;for the defence of the right to asylum and solidarity with Saharawi refugees. &#160;&#160; Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Belgium, I must pay tribute to the victims of the terrible earthquake that has taken place in Indonesia, with almost 6&#160;000 dead, 20&#160;000 injured and between 100&#160;000 and 200&#160;000 people affected.
I have expressed our solidarity to the Indonesian Government and I am delighted that international aid – European aid in particular – is being mobilised quickly in order to help those affected by this latest tragedy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would ask you to give me the floor on the basis of Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, which relates to the examination of respect for fundamental rights.
I should like to take advantage of the presence of Prime Minister Verhofstadt, who is one of the most tolerant Heads of Government in the Union, and who consistently defends the citizens' civil rights, to appeal to you as President of the House: let us consider how we in the European Parliament can counter the fact that, every day, the Right in Europe goes one step further to test how far they can go in provoking civil society.
Let us discuss how we can signal our opposition to this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, just as Mr&#160;Schulz referred to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that I, on the basis of that same Rule, am equally entitled, since all MEPs in this institution have the same rights, to say that I regard it as a downright disgrace that, to all intents and purposes, undue advantage is being taken – with your permission no less, since you are not intervening – in that a debate, that is, strictly speaking, not on the agenda, is being held where the largest party in Belgium, or at any rate in Flanders, is insulted and maligned, and associated with a murder incident.
The subject is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the future of Europe.
I should first of all like to thank you for organising this initiative, and I have already noticed from the introduction that your House is still as lively as I remember it being back in 2001 when I as President-in-Office of the European Council came to defend the decisions of our presidency.
Although I am very flattered, Mr President, by this invitation, this initiative is also evidence of the efforts made by your House and of the perseverance it has shown.
Allow me to remind you first of all that your Parliament has played an important, if not decisive, role in the Convention.
I would not wish to start my address on the future of the European Union without first mentioning a date from the recent past: 1&#160;May 2004, which is just over two years ago.
A milestone in the history of Europe; a key date for the European Union: sixty years after the Yalta Conference, 48 years after the Hungarian Uprising, 43 years after the construction of the shameful Berlin Wall, and 35 years after the Prague Spring, this day was, as Bronislaw Geremek put it, ‘the real end of the Second World War, and the real beginning of a unified European Union’.
The reason why I briefly mention that day is that many people today seem to have what I would call a particularly short memory when they talk about the enlargement of Europe and of the European Union.
History and the direction of history are unequivocal.
The Union must continue to grow.
This is the only guarantee for lasting peace and stability in Europe.
The only guarantee that Bosnia or Kosovo, or the entire Balkans for that matter, will not go up in flames again tomorrow.
At the same time, the Union must be deepened further, and European integration must continue unabated.
After all, lack of progress in European integration did not start with the referendums in France and the Netherlands, as many people would have you believe.
The citizens have been experiencing a crisis in Europe for longer than that: division over Iraq, non-compliance with the stability pact, and the debate on financial perspectives which we resolved in the end.
Both are necessary.
We are in fact evolving very rapidly, from a uni-polar world dominated by the United States of America, to a multi-polar world in which countries like China and India are rightly demanding an emphatic role.
If Europe wants to continue to play a leading economic, political or military role in this new world order, then political union is the only alternative.
As my illustrious predecessor, Paul Henri Spaak, rather cynically put it so many decades ago: ‘Europe still consists solely of small countries.
It is true that on 29&#160;May and on 1&#160;June 2005, the referendums in France and the Netherlands dealt a blow to the emergence of a European political union.
The ratification process continues, and 15 countries have so far approved it, but let us be honest with ourselves.
Some Member States may have been relieved when France and the Netherlands voted ‘no’.
At any rate, they have postponed their own referendums indefinitely.
In any case, the outcome of these two referendums has left Europe in confusion.
A few new ideas have surfaced in the past few weeks, it is true, but I would join you in doubting whether they will amount to much.
Or the idea of having everyone renew their vows to Europe.
It is doing just fine, without a project, without a constitution.
And I would like to reiterate the reasons for this: Europe's economic growth is lagging behind, our political influence in the world is waning and our military strength is below par.
In my view, two main answers or explanations can be given.
The first, which is also a form of self-criticism, is that many national political leaders have long painted a negative picture of Europe in their own countries.
While I cannot deny that funds are sometimes misspent, and that is also the for the Court of Auditors’, the truth is that the budget of the European Union is 20 times smaller than that of the United States, and 40 times smaller than that of all other (national, regional and local) governments combined.
I think that in this age of unbridled globalisation, they see the European engine sputtering and the European economy gasping for breath.
Unemployment remains high.
Everyone knows that this tool is absolutely necessary if we are to make up for our lag in research and development, but in spite of all the Council’s declarations of intent, this could drag on for years.
To put it in a different way: a confederation, based on the intergovernmental method and the principle of unanimity, has no choice but to paralyse our Union.
That is precisely what others do too in their reports: I am thinking of the World Competitiveness Centre (IMD) and the World Economic Forum (WEF).
The only difference between the reports drafted under the Lisbon Strategy and the ones by these economic institutes is that the latter show that nearly all of the countries in Europe are declining.
Yet, it is primarily due to the lack of common reforms in the European Union.
A conclusion is required, which I have tried to defend not only within the Council, but also, prior to that, at the European Parliament, for example when I was invited by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
That conclusion is as clear as day: the intergovernmental method, without commitments, that underpins the Lisbon Strategy does not work properly.
These reforms are absolutely imperative if we want both to face up to rising competition from new growth areas and to protect the social model of which we, in Europe, are so rightly proud.
Unlike harmonisation, which is based on absolute values and which denies the differences in Europe, convergence is about setting minimum and maximum levels, a range of values; it is about creating a framework in which the various Member States of the Union must operate and modernise their economies.
The maximum levels are needed in order to inspire the Member States to implement reforms.
The minimum levels are needed in order to prevent social dumping.
As for the euro, it would never have come about without the Maastricht criteria and the standards set out in the Stability and Growth Pact, which is also a driving force of the Community.
If anyone had doubts about the need for, at the very least, a form of economic governance in a monetary union, they need only imagine the United States with one currency, the dollar, and one central bank, the Federal Reserve, but with a different socio-economic policy for each of its 50 states.
Not with the aim of excluding anyone, because – I repeat – if the 25 Member States were able to apply themselves to developing a new Community strategy together, then I would undoubtedly prioritise that joint approach.
Moreover, when I talk about the Eurogroup, I am referring not only to the current members of the eurozone, but also to all the countries that, under a contractual clause, are destined to join the eurozone.
In particular, I am thinking about jointly preparing the EU spring summit, about frequently drafting reports and recommendations for the eurozone within the European institutions, about defining common macroeconomic starting points when drafting national budgets, about drawing up convergence criteria on social, fiscal and economic matters – a very important task – and about holding meetings that bring together within the enlarged Eurogroup not only finance ministers, but also employment ministers, social affairs ministers and ministers for science policy - my finance minister agrees.
Finally, I am also thinking about ensuring autonomous representation within the international finance institutions, which is an obvious step to take when one has a monetary union and a single currency.
One such area is justice and security, in which we should be more effective in the fight against illegal immigration, organised crime and terrorism.
The same goes for a common foreign policy.
With regard to this last point, we must acknowledge the fact that only a European defence can move us closer to a common foreign policy of that kind.
In short, only when we develop common instruments, such as a European army and European diplomacy, will we be forced to lay our cards on the table - and in due time - in the event of an international crisis.
I know that the idea of developing a European army or European defence is likely to be perceived by some Atlanticists as a sacrilege or as a denial of our transatlantic obligations.
In the 21st century, NATO is going to change; it is likely to evolve from a regional defence alliance into an international security network, consisting of allies and partners.
The disadvantage of these coalitions is that they disintegrate easily following each change of government.
Yet, I believe that, by finding a middle ground between these two arguments, it will be possible in the long run to overcome this resistance.
We cannot play the part of the world’s moral conscience without having the military might to back it up.
Nor can we constantly call on the United States to come to our rescue when we are faced with a civil war on our own continent, as was the case in Bosnia and Kosovo.
We can opt for the , regard the constitution as a lost cause and continue to work on the basis of the treaties signed in Nice and elsewhere.
That is not, in my opinion, the right way forward, for then, we would retain the unanimity rule, which, in turn, means vetoes and, perhaps, paralysis.
Ultimately, the odds are that at the end of the ride, we will end up with more or less the same Constitution.
It is highly doubtful that ratification in two or three years’ time will have a greater chance of success than today.
Europe has brought long-lasting peace, social protection and unprecedented prosperity.
Each country and each citizen of the Union has the right to express an opinion on this Constitution, but remember, there may have been two 'no' votes – in the Netherlands and France – but there were 15 'yes' votes in the 15 other EU Member States.
This declaration to the Constitution would be rendered meaningless.
This second track would not require any changes to the treaties.
This two-track strategy is, in my view, the only way to get through the current period of uncertainty, which could drag on for years, in a meaningful way, and, above all, the only way not to waste time.
That was 52 years ago.
After all, the situation today is not all that different from the situation 52 years ago.
Today, the majority of the French and Dutch citizens voted against the constitution, and today we must not let ourselves be thrown off balance.
Soon there will be almost 500&#160;million people in 25, then 27 and later perhaps even more countries.
I must say that, whenever I leave Europe and then return, I always have a profound feeling of gratitude to be back in Europe, because there is no other continent with as much diversity – including cultural diversity – as the continent of Europe and the European Union.
I hope and expect that, at the end of this process of strengthening the substance and the principles of the European Union, the three Benelux countries – not just Belgium or Luxembourg, but the Netherlands too – will be at the forefront of European development.
I would also say to our Polish friends and partners that you have a good point on the issue of energy.
Solidarity applies to all the countries in the European Union, but Poland, too, must exhibit solidarity when it is a matter of our future, on the basis of a treaty, a constitution, that gives us a prospect for the future.
It is true that the crisis in Europe is also, in part, a crisis of the European Heads of State and Government.
I should like to discuss two elements to which you referred directly, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt.
This morning, Mr&#160;Poettering, I also spoke to the Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs, Atzo Nicolaï.
So here is Europe’s mandate from the people: a mandate to deliver the reforms needed to meet challenges like energy security, migration, climate change and organised crime, which individual Member States struggle to deal with under the current set-up.
But this ‘Europe of Projects’ can never get off the ground until Member State governments explain to their people what they are doing together in Brussels and why, and until we give the Union the money and the legal powers to push through initiatives like the common energy policy, which faces an uphill struggle against blocking forces in the Council, as too do many other initiatives in the field of justice and home affairs, for example, where the absence of qualified majority voting so often results in stalemate.
We need to make our period of reflection a period of analysis, producing proposals on how to proceed.
To me, that Treaty looks far from dead, and with the political courage of leaders like Guy Verhofstadt, Angela Merkel and Romano Prodi – leaders committed to Europe – then Europe’s future is surely brighter.
We also hope that your generous efforts will help us, together with the other European Union Member States and our institutions, to bring a glimmer of enlightenment to this constant crisis.
We can even agree on the fact that ratifications should continue, but we also think that it will be impossible to make France and the Netherlands accept the existing text and, moreover, your two-pronged strategy falls down, in our view, on the weakness of the political solutions.
The majority of our citizens cannot be won over by the idea of a federal, democratic and peaceful union, based on thoroughly disquieting examples like the United States, China or India.
Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, we are of the opinion that a European Constitution is in fact necessary and that we have to find a way to win the citizens’ support for one, but we shall certainly not be able to do so with more market, more liberalisation and more firepower.
I believe that it is impossible to respond seriously, in three or four minutes, to an speech that lasts three quarters of an hour and that is also in-depth.
For example, about the idea of putting the Union’s crisis down mainly to a question of method, which is not federal enough in his opinion, by choosing to overlook the content of the economic and social decisions taken.
That is an analysis that I regard as inadequate and that my group does not support.
I have a great deal to say, too, about Mr&#160;Verhofstadt’s appeal for a military Europe and for that military Europe to be thoroughly integrated into NATO, an appeal with which we do not associate ourselves.
It concerns what is, in my opinion, our main problem today: I am referring to the reasons for the widening gap between Europeans and the Union.
Here is another result: what do the people polled think about the role played by the European Union in fifteen or so areas ranging from environmental protection to the fight against terrorism, via social policy, with the protection of social rights only appearing at the end of the list?
They gave these areas a satisfaction rating of 4.7 out of 10.
That has nothing to do with the Union’s being more or less federal.
The most popular answer: to achieve comparable living standards throughout the Union.
That is the opinion of 51% of those polled in the 25 countries and of as many as 74% in the new Member States.
To summarise, globalisation is perceived as a threat to the social model, and the single market is not seen as an answer to this fundamental problem.
I must say I find it a bit rich for the Prime Minister of Belgium to come along here and tell 24 other nation states what they should do.
What you are doing is threatening the very basis of national self-determination and democracy.
A number of key elements that were mentioned by the Prime Minister in his speech are deserving of more in-depth analysis and comment.
However, if I may be so bold, I would like to touch on two or three elements.
With regard to the situation of whether or not the people want Europe or Europe, I would never dare to speak on behalf of all the people of Europe.
They see those as issues that are best dealt with by the people in their own country.
The kind of model that has been successful for Europe has been one that we have created ourselves.
Decisions will have to be taken at some stage in the short term, not in the long term, and such decisions will subsequently need to be properly implemented.
The Foreign Ministers in Vienna last week were correct when they said it was wrong to call this document a Constitution, because it is not a true Constitution in its right form.
In fact, we had another glowing example of this only a few minutes ago.
Mr&#160;Verhofstadt is now urging his European colleagues to ignore the devastating results of the referendums in France and the Netherlands and continue to act as if nothing is wrong.
Europe has not run aground as a result of the outspoken, proper and well-founded distrust of the voting public in the Netherlands and in France, but rather because of the reasons that underpin it.
Europe is stuck because eminent European statesmen refuse to define the territory of the European Union, refuse to restrict the potential accession of new candidate countries to countries that belong to Europe culturally, geographically and historically, which obviously does not include Turkey.
In fact, Prime Minister Verhofstadt himself is one of the outspoken champions of this Turkish accession and refuses any referendum or democratic input on that subject.
Only when the European citizens are reassured that Europe has boundaries, only when they know that their Europe is restricted to countries that have a common basis, something that is essential to them, only when the European citizens discover that their statesmen are once again prepared to listen to their voices and prepared to respect the outcome of democratic referendums, only then, and not before, can European recovery set in.
Naturally, the countries concerned must meet all of the conditions.
However, those who claim today, , that these countries and these populations cannot join, that there are borders, are actually telling them that they do not want them to enjoy what we have been enjoying for 50 years now in the European Union: peace, stability and well-being.
That is what the last speeches we heard, including the speech by Mr&#160;Farage, who said all kinds of things a moment ago, came down to in practice.
That is absolutely necessary, because you cannot say one thing in the European Council and then the opposite in London or another city in Europe.
I try to give exactly the same message to both the Council and Parliament.
That might already be, as I hope, the conclusion of the Council on 15 and 16 June.
The fact remains that now we must recognise that we need a twofold strategy.
Europe is not the source of globalisation; no, it is the right answer to globalisation and that is the message that we have not yet adequately developed and put across to the nations of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the other day in my country, a great Europeanist – Fernando Álvarez de Miranda – told me that the Europeans’ problem is that they have lost their excitement about Europe.
We are now in this period of reflection, trying to demonstrate that Europe works.
For example, we say that Europe must gain legitimacy by creating work; but does Europe – the European Union – have the instruments for creating employment, or are they national instruments?
If we set objectives that do not depend on the Union, but on the Member States, and we do not achieve them, then the Union will pay the price.
I am therefore going to propose to you, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt – and you can do this, because you are the Prime Minister of your country – that one day you carry out the following test, in order to demonstrate what life would be like for the citizens if Europe did not exist; you could, for example, on 29 May or 1 June, install border posts between your country and France and between your country and the Netherlands, and at those posts you could put customs officers who could ask the French or Dutch citizens for their passports and tell them that their French car insurance was not valid in Belgium and that they have to take out a green card.
That would show them what the European Union is, Mr President. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am quite delighted that we once again have a statesman who has a vision of Europe, because part of our problem is all this pussy-footing around, this self-doubt, this half-heartedness, this downright fear of taking further steps towards European unity.
If even political leaders are not committed to Europe, people become disorientated and distrustful.
The European Economic Community was just a detour that we had to take because the Defence Community did not become a reality.
It will not be called that, but the core could be the same: a renewed commitment to the objectives and grand projects of the EU in the coming years and decades.
We also need projects that are attractive to the people.
We need it all: coal, oil, gas, that is business as usual, but this new basis for an energy revolution would be something that many people could approve of, and I would advise you to adopt something like this at the summit in June. &#160;&#160; Mr President, personally, I find it very positive and very encouraging to see, at last, a European head of government pleading, committing himself and even campaigning, in an excellent book that I recommend to you, for a revival of European integration.
Europe is experiencing a crisis of vocation, a crisis of inspiration, and, faced with this situation, the European Council cannot simply extend for a year the period of reflection.
Firstly, we have, as you keep on repeating, an urgent need for economic governance for Europe.
This text will have to state who we are and what values and what political project we are defending.
I would thank you for your intervention and for the clear and courageous language with which you have broken through the governments’ deafening silence – or, as some people would say, cacophony – and, in this House and in the middle of the crisis, risen above all the internal political considerations and mutterings about renationalisation in order to speak on behalf of Europe.
If we could agree to incorporate this step that you propose into a rider to the Constitution, covering many fields including democracy, social powers and individual responsibility for security, then we need not destroy the constitutional process.
Instead, we can show people a clear way forward and a means of progressing further towards a higher goal.
Moreover, we need not allow the ‘no’ votes to cause Europe to fail. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, it is indeed commendable that, with your latest paper and your speech in this House today, you have helped to bring this fatal period for reflection to an end, because – as many of my fellow MEPs have said, and rightly so – it is high time that there was at last further discussion of how Europe is to proceed.
Ideas about how far European integration should now be taken are extremely different, not only between the Member States but also between political forces, indeed even within the political groups, including my own.
In view of all this, I had never expected, when the Constitutional Convention began, what great strides it would be possible to make in deepening integration and how much more it would be possible to achieve in terms of democracy, citizens’ rights and the strengthening of a polity based on social welfare.
The Constitution constitutes huge progress for Europe and, at the same time, reflects the political consensus that has been achieved.
A member of my own party very recently spoke of it contemptuously as old, unpalatable rubbish, but it really is nothing of the kind.
That, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, is precisely why I do not share your concept of the eurozone states, nor Mr&#160;Sarkozy’s alternative concept of what he calls the pioneer group.
In my view, both models are already unrealistic because, in the course of last year, two founder states quite obviously lost the title, ‘pioneer of Europe’.
In receiving the International Charlemagne Prize of the city of Aachen, an award on which I should like to congratulate him, Dr&#160;Juncker rightly pointed out that Europe would founder if, in the next few years, it did not succeed in becoming a social Europe, for example through having a basic minimum of employees’ rights, valid throughout Europe.
Unfortunately, it was overlooked in the constitutional Convention, and that courage failed him when Belgium was to ratify the Constitution.
Promise that you will never again give Belgium's support to a law that has not first achieved a majority in either the Belgian Parliament or the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union today faces a fundamental choice: whether or not to take on an additional set of tasks, expand its authority, and ultimately collapse under the weight of too much business.
In my opinion the rejected draft Constitutional Treaty offers this very prospect.
The European Union was powerless not for lack of a constitution, but for lack of political will.
There is, however, an alternative: let us concentrate on the specific matters that are already on the table, such as improving the operation of the common market and the euro zone and improving cooperation between countries on security and on internal affairs, and ultimately on cohesion policy.
Let us start discussions on what really does bind us, let us write these aims down and then implement them.
This would provide a good basis for an amended treaty.
Let us first find the basis and substance for a common policy, or in other words what actually binds us, because no procedures on earth are capable of creating a common position where no such substance exists. &#160;&#160; An outstanding performance, Mr&#160;Verhovstadt.
You wondered and even asked a question as to why the citizens of Europe do not trust the European Union.
I&#160;can give you the example of Slovakia and the new Member States: we had to meet very strict criteria for full membership.
We have been full members for two years now, and you can see whether the ideals of the European Union have been fulfilled.
It is too late in the day to speak about what should have been done.
At least say in your closing speech what needs to be done now, what needs to be done tomorrow, and what needs to be done in a&#160;month’s time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I, in turn, should like to express my delight at this debate, which I hope will be the first of many, because I think that in debates with heads of government, Parliament can also do its bit to get things going.
What I do think is that we should try even harder to explain to our citizens that the right response to what scares them at present, namely the changes and globalisation, is not to withdraw into some sort of economic patriotism or nationalism, but that only a European response is a real response to globalisation; and that this also means that Europe must adjust to the new concept of globalisation and the information society, and we will only succeed if we join forces within Europe.
Indeed, only as one Europe can we be a real global actor that defends our interests and values in this global world of tomorrow.
We can play a very strong role in globalisation, provided Europe is strong. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, I should like, while thanking Mr&#160;Verhofstadt for his excellent and determined speech, to look again at two aspects.
Mr&#160;Verhofstadt emphasised the problem of the Lisbon process.
Furthermore, I should like to say that the Heads of State or Government have a very great responsibility regarding the financial perspective with, for example, the research programme which has less money, in real terms, in 2007, 2008 and 2009 than in 2006.
It is true, and you quite rightly made reference to it, that the social aspect was there 50 years ago: there was hope of social improvement after the war.
Therefore, one priority would be, in the same way that the Europe of monetary unity was created from the European currency snake, to create a European social snake that would make it possible to realise tangible achievements in this field too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Prime Minster said that we should try for the four-fifths of Member States before the European Council would be able to – or should – discuss the crisis.
In June, the summit should set itself a rendezvous with a clear decision towards the end of 2007, to establish a fresh intergovernmental conference with the purpose of modifying and improving the Treaty.
Finally, it should complete the revision of the financial system of the EU, to produce a fair, transparent and buoyant budget that will permit us to match financial resources to our policy objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, I feel I must applaud your resoluteness.
Thus, you will not get very far with the Eurogroup process if the decisions are not taken by a qualified majority in fiscal matters, at least on certain issues.
Therefore, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, we must prepare ourselves to renegotiate the Constitutional Treaty on two or three specific points.
I would draw your attention to the fact that the current provisions in the Treaty, concerning the flexibility clause and enhanced cooperation, are inadequate and that, consequently, from this point of view, especially if we wish to continue with enlargement, countries that wish to forge ahead should be allowed to do so.
You say it in your book; you have not said it enough, in my opinion, in your speech but I am sure that you think it and, therefore, I support you in this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate reminds me a little of a famous sketch by the British TV comedians Monty Python.
The parrot can be compared with the EU Constitution, and the salesman with the political elite of the EU.
Only then can the debate about the future of Europe be meaningful again.
In actual fact, the voters of France and the Netherlands sent us a loud and clear message.
They want more democracy and less control from the centre.
They want less free market forces and more social responsibility.
Democracy as a political system requires a demos, a people whose citizens recognise a strong sense of community with each other and who are therefore prepared to take an extensive degree of responsibility for one another.
A demos has common cultural traditions and a common history.
A demos has a common political arena in which debate can take place and where conflicts can be analysed and resolved by democratic means.
Mr&#160;Verhofstadt is a typical representative of the euro-elite who believe that it is possible to replace national identities with a rapidly assembled European identity in which a flag, national anthem and national day can be quickly launched, pretty much like the new currency.
I would like to remind you that if, with the aid of a constitution, we attempt to force on the Member States a policy that will always lack the support of the people, we will be heading for the collapse of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, nobody needs reminding of how important the planned accession of Bulgaria and Romania into our ranks will be to the development of the European Union.
The Community’s expansion in that direction should therefore be prudent and responsible.
This is the only way in which ill-considered accusations against these countries regarding widespread corruption can be interpreted.
The European Union has come into being thanks to the integration of nations.
However, this is only possible through a mutual understanding of their legacies and problems, because that is the only way in which a partnership can be built. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if ever I doubted the validity of my Euroscepticism, today I discovered that 45 turgid minutes of Eurofanaticism from the Prime Minister of Belgium was the perfect antidote.
France and Holland emphatically rejected the Constitution, so we slapped a gagging order on the countries which it was feared might also say ‘No’.
The last eurobarometer poll showed the European project has never been less loved.
Face up to it: the goal of ever-closer, stultifying political union is simply unobtainable! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, sadly I have to decline the generous request for solidarity on the Constitution, but I am glad that we can now have a serious debate on the future of Europe.
No one seriously believes that the Constitution can credibly be presented again to the peoples of France and the Netherlands, who have already spoken.
That would only serve to fuel the sense among our peoples that the EU remains oblivious to their concerns and priorities.
The whole point of the Laeken declaration in 2001 was that the EU needed to find ways of getting closer to its citizens and making the institutions more transparent and accountable.
I want to see the EU move on to a new agenda: a reforming agenda that tackles effectively the sense of alienation between the institutions of Brussels; a reforming agenda that works for fundamental economic reform through liberalisation and more open markets, and puts growth at the forefront of its priorities.
I also want to see greater and more effective intergovernmental cooperation in tackling environmental challenges and fighting the scourge of terrorism.
I think that they can. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I want to wholeheartedly endorse the positive contribution made by Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, who, in considering both the short and long-term future of the Union, is swimming against the current.
Whilst the United States of Europe is a long-term vision, people’s socio-economic concerns require prompt answers today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, I should like to thank the President for organising this debate and congratulate Mr&#160;Verhofstadt on the views he has expressed.
I am also grateful that this debate has happened at all, because it looks to me that both the Prime Minister’s speech and the speeches of a number of our fellow Members, including group chairmen, managed to lay bare the main areas of concern that we face.
I would first of all like to mention the schizophrenia among Heads of Government, Heads of State and ministers who meet to take joint decisions on average once a month, in the case of ministers, and four times a year in the case of Heads of State or Government, without whose permission nothing can be done in Europe.
So many Heads of Government, Heads of State or Members of this House are enormously eloquent in underlining the EU’s shortcomings, but never mention what it does right.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, thank you for taking such a pro-active line.
That, Prime Minister, is where the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council all went wrong.
We acted like , and that is something for which we will pay the price in time to come. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if we really want to debate the future of Europe, we need to ask ourselves who we want to participate in this debate.
The European Union also needs to accept that the neoliberalisation doctrine is of no benefit to the citizens, that a foreign policy linked to ΝΑΤΟ rather than to the principles of the UN is not a just policy.
Finally, we need to avoid insistences that there should be a European Constitution by 2009, as the Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs has also said.
No strategy can dress up something that remains the same. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, Europe is a great ideal: it is both our history and our future.
Europe is our culture, our values and our Western civilisation, which believes in freedom, tolerance, the importance of the individual, and peace, and which therefore cannot relinquish its Christian roots.
To overcome the current crisis, the Union needs a treaty that brings Europe closer to its people.
Europe needs to become stronger within a context of vital transatlantic relations.
We shall only overcome these challenges if we succeed in transforming today’s Europe, which is too tied up in bureaucracy, into a Europe of the people, of policies and of values. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;De&#160;Gaulle said one should, and I quote, ‘go to the complex Orient with simple ideas’.
I suggest that you apply this formula to the Constitution.
In this way, if, when the time comes, for example, 22 out of 27 countries say ‘yes’ and 5 say ‘no’, the 5 who say ‘no’ either accept the majority rule or they stand down.
Whatever happens, it will not be the same text and another ratification process will be needed, otherwise I wager we shall find ourselves here in the same situation year after year. &#160;&#160; – I should like to begin by congratulating you, Prime Minister, on your speech, which struck a rare note of both vision and realism.
The Lisbon Strategy is a delightful set of intentions, yet commits the cardinal sin of not being a Community strategy, as you correctly pointed out.
In criticising the defective economic and social policy, he highlighted, among other things, the Lisbon Process and this open method of coordination.
We know that our shortcomings in terms of economic and social policy are not, unfortunately, all going to be solved by means of this Constitutional Treaty.
In the meantime, expert bodies have put forward at least a dozen different solutions to the constitutional crisis.
Firstly, do we really want a more far-reaching European Union, or in other words do we want more Europe?
Yes, we do want a constitution, because the constitution provides us with the chance of a stronger, more effective and more democratic EU.
We have to accept political reality and be as flexible as possible and only put in place solutions that are attainable in the given situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, it is clear that we are building the future Europe for its citizens, and that they have to answer the question of what kind of Europe they want and within which borders.
Europe has fallen into lethargy, and for that reason I would like to ask you, Mr&#160;Verhofstadt, at the June session of the Council, to ask the leaders of those countries which have postponed the ratification process what they intend to do now and what their plans are.
Ratification of an international treaty is an obligation for the countries that have signed it.
Finally I would like to point out that in my country, Poland, where the ratification process was postponed, the latest public opinion surveys show that almost 80% of the Polish population supports Europe, and that people want a larger Europe, a Europe built on the principles of equality and a Europe that is not only prosperous, but that is just and democratic and that displays solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate has been a clash of two pessimisms.
Because your book lacked a section about ‘what to do’ following its analysis of what we need, and today you have said it very clearly: to continue with the process of ratifying the European Constitution.
My first point is that the Prime Minister is one of the best defenders of Europe.
My second point concerns the controversy about the name of the Constitution.
I must admit that, compared with when I was a member of the European Convention, I am much more convinced of closer cooperation between members of the European Union.
Therefore we need to stop speaking half-truths; we need to stop saying one thing in the European Council and then another thing at home; we need to stop thinking in practical terms about forthcoming elections.
I shall begin with the question of Declaration 30 because this Declaration has quite a strange history.
The principle of four fifths of Member States was already present in the original proposals that were presented by the Prodi Commission.
The Americans did it in 1787 on the occasion of the Philadelphia Convention.
In substance, I am in agreement: the ideal would be to have a system where unanimity disappeared and was replaced by something else, a European referendum or a four-fifths majority, for example.
You can do anything: continue with ratification, fine, I am asking for that; make use of the four fifths principle, fine; extend the period of reflection, fine; organise an Intergovernmental Conference as Mr&#160;Duff is asking, fine, but all that still means years and years of work.
This work, between you and me, is going to be very interesting but it would really be a serious error not to do something else straightaway.
Now, all the things I spoke about in my introduction, all the proposals that I made require no amendment to the Treaty.
The second aspect that I wish to emphasise regarding cooperation within the Euro zone is that it is an open cooperation, it is not a closed club, it is a reality that exists and which will grow with the entry of Slovenia by 1&#160;January 2007 at the latest.
I do not know whether the Ecofin Council has completed its scrutiny of the other countries, on the basis of the opinion of the Commission and the European Central Bank, but these countries will join nonetheless, maybe not in 2007, but then it will be 1&#160;January 2008.
Because if the citizens said ‘no’ at the time of the referendum in France, it is because there is no socio-economic convergence and because there is no way to respond to their expectations at the social level.
For it to be possible to do both at the same time, however, one must have the courage, again this year, or, at the latest, next year, to initiate socio-economic governance in the European Union.
We thank you very much for dedicating all of your time and your intellect to the debate on the future of Europe. &#160;&#160; – The dominant forces in Parliament continue their fools’ crusade, promoting ad nauseam the inappropriately named European Constitution, which would strengthen federalism, neoliberalism and militarism in the EU.
That is to say, it is not a political problem of EU policy but a problem of communication and perception.
In a display of contempt for the will expressed by the French and Dutch people, as well as other people who have not been allowed to express the same opinion, the dominant forces in Parliament have imposed a constitutional agreement and their own support for the European Constitution, by rejecting amendments and pressing ahead with ratifications in the countries that rejected the Treaty – with the use of Community funding – by the time of the next elections to Parliament in June 2009.
Without high-standard legislation, a more efficient decision-making mechanism and a stronger role of Parliament, the European Union may not only lose its efficiency, but its ability to function, as well.
The fact that the European Union has become stuck within its current legal framework reinforces the very reason why the citizens of two countries voted against the Constitution.
The European Union is not just an economic project, but also a supranational institutional system that also serves solidarity and the protection of social values.
In the Council, our common understanding is that Guantánamo remains a cause for serious concern.
Terrorism is a threat to our order of values, built on the rule of law.
We must, however, also be sure that, in fighting terrorism, we do not damage or call into question our procedures and institutions based on the rule of law.
This dialogue with the United States is being continued.
The legal advisers of the USA’s state department and of the EU’s equivalent services are discussing better ways of protecting human rights in the fight against terrorism, as the common search to improve the protection of human rights is important.
For a country such as the United States, which declares its support for freedom, the rule of law and proper court proceedings, Guantánamo is an anomaly.
In our view, the US Government should therefore take measures to close down the camp as quickly as possible.
Unfortunately, it was not possible for the UN representatives to visit Guantánamo under the normal conditions for special procedures.
This same line was also taken by the United States when Members of the European Parliament visited Guantánamo on 22&#160;May.
This community of values must also prove its worth specifically in the face of the challenge from international terrorism.
That is why it was the concern both of the Austrian Presidency and of the Council to initiate the dialogue between experts in international law, to present the debate in objective terms and to strive for common positions corresponding to our system of values.
The global fight against terrorism on an unprecedented scale has created new challenges for the protection of human rights.
The European Commission constantly underlines that states must ensure full respect for human rights during the fight against terrorism, and this is at stake here.
A number of Member States have voiced concern to the US Government about Guantánamo Bay.
However, we follow very closely all developments and we have noted President Bush’s recent statement that he would like to bring Guantánamo to an end.
The Commission underlines that all anti-terrorist measures must be consistent with both international humanitarian law and international human rights law.
Moreover, in our view, every person who has been detained must enjoy a status under international law and is entitled not to be detained arbitrarily.
The Commission would also stress that no one should be subject to incommunicado detention and that the International Committee of the Red Cross must always be allowed access to detained persons wherever they may be.
Finally, we have repeatedly made clear to the United States our opposition to the use of the death penalty in all cases.
The European Union has also made clear its support for the request of various United Nations Special Rapporteurs to visit Guantánamo Bay and to be able to interview detainees in private.
I have called for and have signed a joint urgency motion, passed by all groups in February 2005, calling for the closure of the Guantánamo Bay detention centre.
In relation to our joint motion for a resolution, I believe that those MEPs that have just returned from Guantánamo should be given an opportunity to contribute to that motion and improve its accuracy, effectiveness and credibility.
For that reason, I hope that other Groups will support my proposal tomorrow on behalf of the PPE-DE Group to postpone the vote on a resolution until the next Strasbourg session in June.
Finally, we once again call upon the Bush Government to close the Guantánamo detention centre and to give the people held there a fair trial or release them immediately, ensuring that they are not sent to any country where they may be subject to torture, as has apparently happened in some cases.
The trans-Atlantic summit to be held in Vienna will offer an opportunity to put pressure on the US authorities.
We also, as you quite rightly said, need to have answers about whether dozens of children have been incarcerated there, as has been alleged recently.
The Commission may have sound principles, to which I subscribe, but it really believes that we can take President Bush at his word when he says that the United States intends to close down Guantanamo Bay.
Although the European Union is, of course, not responsible for Guantanamo, it could offer those people a solution, out of human compassion.
Human rights are being violated there, torture is the order of the day, and we have even discovered recently that 60 children have been unlawfully held in Guantánamo.
Guantánamo is a place outside the law, where terrorists or suspected terrorists are detained and thus kept out of reach of normal judicial process.
It has been decided instead to fight on the enemy’s home ground and to compete in denying human rights, in using military might to control the civilian population, in negating the cardinal principles of democracy, and in giving priority to security above all else.
The pictures from Guantánamo and Abu Ghraib prison are emblematic of the victory and culture of terrorism over the rule of law; they are a clear sign of the defeat of those who often declare that they want to fight terrorism, not least because those pictures shown on television around the world are the staff of life for extremist fundamentalism, as are the secret prisons or the kidnappings carried out by CIA secret agents on European soil.
Those terrorists were substantially funded by US citizens.
The US Government was instrumental in forcing the British Government to capitulate in the face of that terrorist campaign.
Some of those suspects are British citizens.
If they are real terrorists, then let them face justice and not languish in a detention camp that the Americans do not even dare to put within their own country. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mrs&#160;Plassnik, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, firstly, we should like to say that terrorism is contemptuous of human beings and that the United States has been hit appallingly by terrorism.
We must appreciate that this is terrorism directed against our values and our legal system and that it raises concerns about the danger in which it places us.
Following my visit, I am convinced that the situation and the images familiar to us from 2001 and 2002 no longer exist.
Moreover, the fact that great efforts are taking place within the United States, together with a debate designed to put an end to torture and the like is shown by, for example, the initiatives taken by Senator McCain.
What we have here, then, is not typical behaviour towards America on the part of Europe but a debate being conducted in all our societies.
On the other hand – and, on this matter, I agree completely with the Commissioner and Mrs&#160;Plassnik – human rights and international humanitarian law must be observed.
Although our system of values does in fact entail the risk of a prisoner reoffending after he has been released, we should be giving up our freedom if we were to abandon that same system of values.
True enough: in the situation in which we now find ourselves, the risk is far smaller if prisoners who might otherwise join the ever growing ranks of new suicide bombers and so inspire further mobilisation are instead kept in prison.
Although what we have here is not a war in the classical sense of the word, we must try, via the International Court of Justice and other international arrangements, to get to grips with this issue.
The best way that EU Member States could launch the constructive goal-orientated dialogue with the US – which Mrs Plassnik called for and I agree we need – would be to help this Parliament establish the truth about the extraordinary rendition programme and European complicity in it.
The goal that we should seek jointly with the Americans is a return to full respect for international law, not a dilution of it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when we discussed and adopted the urgent resolution on Guantánamo a few months ago, it marked a turning point in the debate and we condemned a practice which until then had been completely denied or simply ignored by the powers that be in Europe.
The fight against terrorism – this has been said, I agree with it and I believe that the majority of us take the same view – cannot be an excuse to permit torture, kidnap and, even less, murder, which are taking place not just in Guantánamo, but in many other parts of the world.
We must therefore continue to put pressure on the United States in every way we can in order to persuade them, on the one hand, to close Guantánamo, but also, on the other, to ensure that the almost 500 people in detention have the legal guarantees that they require.
I therefore believe that we must remind the Council that these measures must be taken seriously and that a proactive approach must be taken in order to guarantee that these people – I insist – not just have a fair trial, but also the human and judicial guarantees they deserve. &#160;&#160; – Europe’s main mission is to comply with and promote international law and the humanitarian principles that underpin it.
This is yet another reason why the European project must succeed.
The fight against terrorism must not undermine the system of personal guarantees that form the moral foundations of democracy and the rule of law.
The biggest danger for democracy is the loss of the moral high ground and this is a further serious capitulation in the face of terrorism.
Security guarantees must therefore uphold the fundamental values of human rights and must form part of the debate on these values.
Consequently, Europe is the United States’ best partner if we are to achieve an order that will ensure that the principles of international law and the core values of civilisation are properly upheld.
Against a backdrop such as this, what is needed is relentless commitment to dialogue.
EU Member States must also take part in the Council of Europe’s process of reflection with a view to amending the Geneva Conventions.
To quote Simone de Beauvoir, ‘we must not allow our executioners to give us bad habits’. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Plassnik, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, Guantánamo has become a symbol of the removal of human rights and of procedures under the rule of law.
Rather, we should be asking ourselves where our responsibility lies and in what ways we can help bring about a solution.
The fate of the people in Guantánamo concerns us all and should not leave us indifferent.
Finally – and this is something that also ought to be emphasised today – European governments too have been involved in the extradition, and partly even in the interrogation, of detainees at Guantánamo Bay.
That applies, for example, in the case of Murat Kurnaz.
That is because this subject is at the interface of a number of the European Union’s political priorities: on the one hand, the issue of the universal validity of human rights and of international humanitarian law, as well as the fight against the scourge of terrorism on the basis of the principles of the rule of law; on the other hand, however, good transatlantic relations, which are also affected by this subject.
We shall undoubtedly continue with the policy we have pursued during the Austrian Presidency and also before that.
I mentioned some of the key points in the introduction.
I broadly agree with all the key elements mentioned here in the debate.
On the one hand, acts of terrorism constitute a clear violation of basic fundamental rights; on the other hand, all anti-terrorist measures must comply with international legal standards of humanitarian and human rights law.
The European Union has a common position: last week, all 25 Member States clearly spoke out, and we have already raised the subject of Guantánamo with the US Administration on many occasions.
As Mrs Plassnik said, dialogue will be continued on the basis of this common position.
The matter will certainly be raised with our American partner at the forthcoming US-EU Summit, as well as the wider issue of the need to respect our common values in the fight against terror.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on – the report [2005/2056(INI)] (A6-0173/2006) by Mr&#160;Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on improving EU-US relations in the framework of a Transatlantic Partnership Agreement and – the report [2005/2082(INI)] (A6-0131/2006) by Mrs&#160;Mann, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on EU-US Transatlantic economic relations &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Mrs&#160;Plassnik, Commissioners, I believe – partly for the reasons that we have previously discussed – that the transatlantic relationship is extraordinarily important.
In the big issues concerning business and trade, there are conflicts but also agreements.
This transatlantic community is also a community of values in spite of all the discussions we have regarding individual matters.
The European Union has agreements with just about everyone in the world, just as the United States of America does.
For this reason, we should find contractual solutions that will enable us to convert the Transatlantic Declaration into a Transatlantic Partnership Agreement.
Such an agreement would provide a framework – and our fellow Member, Mrs&#160;Mann, will later present this in much more detail in terms of economic policy – that will make it possible, even in the case of tensions and conflicts of interest, to reach agreements more quickly.
The aim is that, by 2015, it should be possible for a transatlantic market to arise that can also deal with all associated problems to do with social policy and with the need to secure the multilateral dimension.
Let me not be misunderstood: a bilateral relationship should not destroy the multilateral approach of, for example, the WTO.
The currently still very sluggish Transatlantic Legislators’ Dialogue could be converted into a Transatlantic Assembly.
The European Parliament’s rapporteurs should be able to speak with their opposite numbers in the American Congress in order to make progress with these matters.
On many issues, including the International Court of Justice, climate change and Iraq, the United States has adopted attitudes for which we need to criticise the present US Government.
For this reason, the Council, the Commission and the US administration should at last find the strength to go beyond the catch-as-catch-can approach and provide a broader and deeper basis for this alliance. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, greetings to all my fellow Members and, of course, to the Commission and the Council.
As so often, I have the great pleasure of preparing the accompanying report on behalf of the Committee on International Trade and, in this, I am concentrating more on foreign trade and economic themes.
If we look at business and trade relations, then my report essentially contains one key idea.
The number of jobs that depend on such trade is really extremely high.
Here is an example that I come up with again and again: that of our famous flagship, Airbus, on the European side and of Boeing on the American side.
In that way, we stick to our standards and to our precautionary principle, and we continue to maintain the rules of the internal market.
Hence, my proposal for tomorrow concerning split voting.
In the case of bioethanol, I should like to introduce a verbal addition.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union probably has no other partner in the world with which it has such close and intensive relations as the United States of America.
We have achieved considerable progress on a number of issues, and we are – as is often the case prior to policies are determined – engaging in dialogue in order to reach a convergence of opinions.
Consider for instance the area of promotion of democracy, where we can take positive credit for our close cooperation during the presidential elections in Belarus.
Another example of a very close and successful ongoing cooperation is the Western Balkans.
We are, in the Contact Group, working towards a common position for the final status talks on Kosovo.
A further example is the Middle East Peace Process, where we are continually working very closely together to coordinate our position within the framework of the Quartet and on the basis of the Road Map – now a topic of particular significance, given the elections and new governments in Israel and among the Palestinians as well.
At the same time there must be absolute certainty that Iran is using or rather developing nuclear energy for no other purpose.
This is where direct dialogue between Washington and Tehran is certainly of central significance.
In the area of justice and internal affairs, it has been possible, during the Austrian Presidency, to involve the USA in the implementation of foreign policy strategy.
A number of important challenges raise overlapping political questions in their various aspects, and they still deserve particular attention, for instance international humanitarian law, anti-terrorism and cooperation in crisis management.
Nevertheless it is important in this context to mention that the dialogue of experts on international law, which was begun under our Presidency, serves the purpose of arriving together at positions which are in accordance with our common fundamental values.
We share the same opinion on many multilateral questions and we work hand in hand, but the International Criminal Court is one of the points about which there are differences of opinion.
However, let me also mention a positive aspect in this context, that being the fact that the USA has permitted the prosecution of war crimes in Sudan.
Moreover, we are working on a common strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights.
We welcome Parliament’s suggestions and recommendations, as expressed in the reports of your Members Mr&#160;Brok and Mrs&#160;Mann.
The reports show us very clearly how hard we are all working together in a united effort, and also that improving transatlantic relations is just as much a matter of great importance for you as it is for the Council and the Commission.
Passing on to the specific question of the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement, discussed in the report, it seems to us that the time is not yet ripe for this, and so the Presidency recommends, in the first instance, continuing to build upon existing practical cooperation.
Our goal for the Summit is to maintain the recent dynamic in transatlantic relations.
We also want to create new initiatives for further cooperation leading up to the next Summit, whereby a matter of particular concern to us is to communicate better the intensity, importance and usefulness of the transatlantic partnership to the Europeans as well.
These are among others a reinforced cooperation in the global promotion of peace, democracy and human rights, a new dialogue about energy security, the conclusion of an agreement on air traffic and concentrating on the implementation of intellectual property rights in third countries.
Europe and the USA are bound together inseparably, not only historically, but also by common values.
Our many common economic and political interests as well as our security interests outweigh the differences which can and must exist between partners.
We came out of the 2005 summit with eight declarations on a wide range of issues which guided our collaboration.
The declaration on democracy promotion shows how far our cooperation on foreign policy has come.
Our activity to spread democratic principles, respect for human rights and the rule of law – which Mr Brok highlights in his motion for a resolution – can only go so far.
I personally have been very closely involved in coordinating our position with the United States.
The motion for a resolution mentions the need to better coordinate assistance.
The first is energy.
The key is to increase predictability by creating the right market conditions and legal frameworks in both the producer and transit countries.
The second issue is visas.
In July 2006, we will issue a second report on visa reciprocity, which may examine the possibility of taking specific measures in response to any lack of progress.
As Mr Brok rightly points out in his resolution, we need to coordinate our approach to third countries, particularly China, effectively.
This has proved a very useful forum for discussing relations with China.
As the President-in-Office of the Council has already said, the question is whether a formal agreement would really bring much added value today to our relations.
Let me end with a remark about the important role Parliament plays in transatlantic relations.
As you know, I have always been an enthusiastic supporter of interparliamentary exchanges.
The response to the rise of China and India, the pressures of globalisation, the current challenges in the energy field, the way multilateral institutions function, climate change: all these depend on the ability of Europe and the United States to cooperate effectively together.
Let me say a few words now on Erika Mann’s report itself.
The EU-US action strategy for intellectual property rights enforcement in third countries will be endorsed.
It will contain a number of concrete cooperation measures, especially between our customs services and embassies in selected third countries.
On the high-level regulatory cooperation forum, too, I am satisfied that after two meetings in Brussels and Washington within a very short timeframe, we have now clearly established the forum as the place for EU and US regulators to exchange best practice.
In my view, the EU-US economic initiative has shown that we are getting there, we are moving in that direction step by step.
Probably the right approach is to advance steadily on issues of mutual interest and to show – for example in the areas of intellectual property rights and regulatory cooperation – concrete successes to our citizens.
We have now at least established a contact group to address both old and new problems, and have proposed to the US government to include an investment paragraph in the summit declaration regarding the importance of an open transatlantic investment climate.
I am grateful for your report, which has highlighted this need once again in a very timely way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Mann on the excellent work she has done on this report.
The report contains a goal that I would particularly like to emphasise, namely the goal of achieving a common transatlantic capital market by 2010, for this is a goal that, in turn, shows the way forward in other areas.
We can today already see that the transatlantic economy is defined by, and functions as a result of, direct investments and the ongoing collaboration between industry and research that supports trade.
It is the intensity of those investments and the quantity of acquisitions in both directions which form the basis for comprehensive trade across the Atlantic, but it is also important to achieve a high level of research and innovation.
This must be the best way to face up to and contribute to globalisation and to help bring about a strong global economy, not just for ourselves but for the rest of the world too.
The report also takes up a number of other issues, such as the importance of making it easier for companies on both sides of the Atlantic to become listed on the various stock markets, of facilitating and opening the way for company investments of equal size in both directions, of ensuring that reinsurers have the same opportunities and of ensuring that we achieve a common transatlantic capital market in the true meaning of the phrase.
Secondly, in relation to research – which is extremely important – our committee is now working with the Seventh Framework Programme.
Equally important is the cooperation with the institutions in the US as well as with industry.
We would like something similar in the future.
The ‘cultural key’ can actually contribute towards strengthening our relationship and promoting mutual understanding between Europeans and Americans.
Regarding education, this dialogue should focus on strengthening the mutual recognition of vocational qualifications but also on interchanges of researchers and of university teachers and students.
We should mention, therefore, that the forthcoming renewal of the Cooperation programme between our two continents in the fields of higher education and vocational training will also be of great benefit.
On this point, and in conclusion, we regret, nonetheless, that the United States did not choose to follow the Union and vote in favour of the Unesco Convention.
Commission President Barroso was right to urge the United States to lift the visa requirements for citizens from the ten new Member States.
In the coming weeks, the temporary committee of inquiry into alleged CIA camps will be discussing its draft interim report.
I might even dare to whisper that the trade between us has undergone a revolution.
The deepest form of cross-border economic integration is mutual direct foreign investments.
The market that we have has, for example, created nearly seven&#160;million jobs in Europe.
If our relationship shows signs of weakness, there are knock-on effects for the whole world.
The trade between us is thus not an alternative to trade with poorer countries.
We must carry on our work and integrate our economies.
I therefore hope that we, together with the USA, can realise the idea of a barrier-free transatlantic market by 2015.
They exhorted me and every other MEP to vote against this report.
Their argument was that, if this report were voted through by a majority in Parliament, it would open the way for an accelerated process of increased free trade between the USA and Europe.
What is paramount, as far as we are concerned, is the fact that the United States and the European Union have many shared interests, not least in the economic area, and we cannot sufficiently stress the importance of those economic interests.
Those also include the risks that these entail, considering the differences in financial policy of the EU countries and that of the United States.
Certainly in that area, we must try to strengthen cooperation with them, and Mrs&#160;Mann’s report contains many initiatives to that effect which are, in my view, very valuable.
There is, by the same token, no denying the fact that we see things differently in certain areas.
I also support the idea of creating a more contractual relationship and partnership, which opens up the possibility, in the event of problems, of being able to discuss those openly and honestly, not least at parliamentary level.
My question is only whether the USA is prepared to recognise the European Union to such an extent that it is prepared to enter into such a contractual relationship.
We must, in the coming years, try to develop fresh policy in a number of areas, including energy policy, given the energy problems we experience and where the US and the Europeans share a number of common interests.
I am in favour of a deeper relationship and of our cooperation to be fleshed out at federal level.
The most important thing is that the basis is sound, and despite all the differences of opinion and all the frustration felt by America’s friends about some of the present administration’s policies, the basis here is sound.
As the President-in-Office of the Council says, economic exchange is strong; people-to-people contacts are working, and politically too, numerous networks of intensive contacts have emerged from different dialogue formats and ad-hoc cooperation.
Yet the mutual cooperation could still be improved: the New Transatlantic Agenda was well-constructed, but it has not become a genuine foundation and must be revitalised.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe therefore supports the proposal put forward by Mr&#160;Brok in his report for a Transatlantic Partnership Agreement as well as Mrs&#160;Mann’s vision of a transatlantic market.
I would like to add that I am glad that we are having this debate in Brussels and not in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Deputy President of the Commission, I will concentrate on Mr&#160;Brok’s report.
In the context of the Transatlantic Partnership, which should enter into force in 2007, it is however an important fact that the present American administration has become a sort of lame duck, and so it is open to question whether it makes sense to conclude this sort of agreement with it.
However, in her report Mrs&#160;Mann calls, in her own words, for ‘a barrier-free transatlantic market’, and that is a free trade zone.
Trade should not be an end in itself for the purpose of higher profit rates, but one of the instruments for ensuring that the population is supplied with goods and services, for creating jobs and promoting social development and prosperity.
Secondly, while public services and comprehensive social security systems are basic parts of political culture in the European Union, this is viewed differently in the USA.
To conclude: this House recently adopted the Agnoletto report, which clearly states that the European Union should include a clause on human rights in all treaties with third countries.
The USA makes war in Iraq in contravention of international law; it does not recognise the International Criminal Court; it holds prisoners of war in inhuman conditions in prisons like the one in Guantánamo Bay.
This, occurring as it does on a global scale, does, after all, give Europe and the USA an equal share of headaches, which are not restricted to trade conflicts or the enforcement of human rights in China.
I therefore see paragraphs 8, 9 and 21 of the report by Mr&#160;Brok that we are considering as being a welcome helping hand, for they each promote a transatlantic approach to the relationship with China.
I think that we could, by combining transatlantic forces, persuade China to be a real stakeholder in the international system. &#160;&#160; .Mr President, the plan for strengthening the desired cooperation with the United States has been outlined in an extremely well-balanced manner in the Brok and Mann reports.
Free trade, legislative dialogue and closer cooperation on security and defence are naturally the main areas of action.
I am concerned that Europe has only 25% of the USA’s mobile defence potential, and that we have an outdated structure of NATO bases in Europe, which in addition may be scaled down in favour of vague European projects.
Europe will not be a global player if we lose our capability to create a strategic political partnership with the USA.
Europe needs the United States, and the United States needs Europe.
I say this against a background of rapid growth in the role of Asia, as well as an increase in the demographic and political role of Latin America and Africa.
EU-US relations should in the near future take the form of a real partnership and a strategic alliance, but this will only happen if we do not succumb to the stereotype of ‘Europe the teacher’ on the one hand, and ‘Europe the American client’ on the other. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to express my warm congratulations both to Mr&#160;Brok and to Mrs&#160;Mann for the creative contributions to the dialogue which they have presented to us today.
Any crises which arise from time to time are, in my opinion, factors of the – so far – unresolved question of the management of this interdependence.
Meeting these global challenges depends on moving bilateral relations from the current level of pronouncements to a cohesive, transparent and stable institutional framework and a more harmonised bilateral regulatory environment.
A transatlantic market without barriers is a feasible objective; it just needs to be based on a new and unified regulatory architecture.
Enlargement and intensification of the areas of close cooperation between the European Union and the USA are expected to have a positive spillover effect on all the problems which constitute the challenges of the contemporary global agenda.
I would refer, among other things, to the promotion of common principles and values, such as democracy, the rule of law, defence of fundamental rights and freedoms, taking a broader view of the global trade order, effective international environmental protection, combating terrorism and organised crime and establishing a new financial architecture.
By contrast, breaking the cohesion in EU-US relations will exacerbate international uncertainty and will have adverse repercussions on global cooperation, peace, stability and security, both political and economic.
The completion of negotiations at the Doha Round constitutes, as Commissioner Mandelson has also said, a test ground for this close relationship between the European Union and the USA. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we need to deepen both economic and political relations between the European Union and the USA, and to draw up a new transatlantic partnership agreement to take effect as of 2007.
I would particularly like to stress the role of political dialogue between the European Parliament and the US Congress.
The USA’s hegemonistic role at the start of the 21st century requires the EU to display autonomy and true partnership in transatlantic relations, as well as to ask questions openly and to search for a common political platform.
The most pressing issues are still the need to convince the USA to take part in reforming the UN and to respect human rights and civil liberties in the fight against terror.
The European Union should not tolerate a situation in which the citizens of some Member States require a visa to stay in the USA.
The relevant EU institutions should pose the question of lifting visa restrictions for the USA for all citizens of the European Union in their contacts with the US authorities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, both reports, especially Erika Mann’s, show the intensity of the relationship between the European Union and the United States, and, at the same time, highlight the long list of areas in which there might be difficulties and misunderstandings.
It is a good time to underline how strong this relationship is and to what extent it goes far beyond the current administration and the problems with the specific administration and specific leadership, which some of us will not like.
Secondly, my concern is that by pursuing extremely controversial issues such as the liberalisation of investment, public procurement and services in a projected transatlantic free trade area, other countries could well perceive that as the EU and US setting the stage for transferring the negotiations over to the global level.
Finally, on the issue of regulation and harmonisation, in spite of amendments and some nice rhetoric to the contrary, there is a risk that we will see a levelling down – rather than a levelling up – of hard-won environmental health and consumer standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the context of the new Transatlantic Partnership Agreement, I would like to draw particular attention to the current controversy between the EU and the USA on the strategies and methods used in fighting global terrorism.
Clear principles, coordinated action and mutual trust are needed to fight terrorism, and thereby to provide real protection for human rights in the modern world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although the draft resolution points out – and with good reason – the need for a stable institutional framework for transatlantic relations, I do believe that this debate should not just be about structures.
As far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, we in this House have already devoted much attention – as indeed we should have done – to Guantánamo Bay and the CIA’s allegedly unlawful practices in Europe.
It goes without saying that the fight against terrorism must be conducted within a strictly legal framework.
It should also be said, though, that some groups here in this House are not as much interested in the rights of terrorists or alleged terrorists as they are in mainly indulging in basic anti-Americanism.
If those groups were as active in denouncing the human rights violations in Cuba, for example, much more progress would have been made by now.
We are talking here about people who have not only been charged with terrorism, but are also behind bars because of their political views. &#160;&#160; Mr President, transatlantic relations are essential if the United States and the European Union are to deal with their shared challenges successfully.
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the United States’ Secretary of State’s announcement on Washington joining the multilateral negotiations on the Iranian nuclear programme.
We must enhance our relations, while maintaining a critical spirit, and explore new opportunities for greater joint and coordinated action at international level and greater integration of our markets, which will benefit our citizens.
The creation of an Atlantic area of prosperity is essential in order to ensure that our citizens continue to enjoy the economic well-being that Europe and the United States provide them with. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the partnership between the USA and Europe is a difficult but necessary one.
These are two areas in which I hope that we can speak with the USA as genuinely independent, self-confident partners. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is certain that had dear Mr&#160;Brok heard the last lecture of Chomsky, the greatest living philosopher, he would have written a different report.
Even our stock exchanges follow the Dow Jones index.
Since all future battlefield weapons will be navigated by satellite, it is obvious that Europe will be helping China to rearm.
With its commitments in Japan, Taiwan and south-east Asia, can the United States be anything other than wary of anyone complicit in rearming China? &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is obvious that the United States and the European Union must strengthen their dialogue and their cooperation in the economic, commercial, regulatory or even the social domain by means of the promotion of decent work as trade unions on both sides of the Atlantic wish.
I doubt also whether this is necessarily the right time to propose a bilateral initiative on such a scale when our American partner is threatening global macroeconomic stability by allowing its trade and budget deficits to slide while it is publicly calling into question the merits and principles of multilateralism, or opposing initiatives like the Kyoto Protocol or the International Criminal Tribunal.
I should like Mrs&#160;Mann’s excellent report to be amended in light of this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel strengthened in my intention to address a range of issues at the approaching summit, issues that concern our common future including cooperation in order to promote democracy, human rights, freedom and prosperity, but also issues relating to the global challenges we face: climate change, the fight against terrorism, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and also the issue of energy security, which is increasingly occupying us on both sides of the Atlantic and which has been the subject of intensive work in the Council in this half-year period; I have already referred to the air traffic agreement in my introduction.
I would like to thank the Commission, too, for its close cooperation.
I would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteurs and all those who have also worked on this report and those who regularly take part in the debate on our transatlantic relations.
What is needed, rather, is to discuss existing irritations and all unresolved questions as partners in a dialogue.
Let me respond to a few question rather briefly.
As for tourism – which was also mentioned – exchanges would be facilitated by extending the visa waiver programme to all our Member States.
As to the environment, we want to relaunch our dialogue with the US, notably by relaunching the high-level dialogue on the environment, including the issue of climate change.
Our cooperation on energy will also touch on climate change issues from the standpoint of energy efficiency.
However, our overall dialogue needs to be broader than this.
Finally, we are looking forward to the successful setting-up of the Galileo satellite navigation system, where cooperation with third countries is necessary and useful, and where we hope that cooperation with the US will bring an additional benefit to our companies and citizens.
We are very thankful to the two rapporteurs and for the engagement and commitment of Parliament.
However, the fact is that this trade and investment relationship between us is worth a amount in terms of people’s jobs, their livelihoods, their futures.
This is why I so heartily commend this report and will dedicate myself and my services to realising its spirit. &#160;&#160; That concludes the joint debate.
Joint action is needed today in areas of common interest and shared values and threats, in order to lend a new, effective and representative dimension to our common policy and economic relations and to combine forces to face the threat of terrorism.
Global problems require global and prompt action.
The priorities of the UN summit in 2005 and the drafting of a plan of action against terrorism should become our goal and our motivation for cooperation, and should speed up reforms in the structures both of NATO and of the UN, with particular emphasis on the reform of the UN Security Council.
The decline of the ‘enemy of the Western world’ in Eastern Europe, and disagreement between the Member States on intervention in Iraq, gives rise to a question posed frequently both in the USA and in Europe, namely whether NATO has any useful purpose any more.
The threat of terrorism could provide a basis for the existence of the alliance, but this challenge requires the creation of new political and military structures and cooperation with regard to the EU’s foreign and security policy.
I protest, and I would like you, Mr Vice-President, to pass on my protestations to the President of Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am glad indeed that Mrs&#160;Plassnik and Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner are still here.
I think it is most necessary that we as the European Union say that this should not be allowed to happen in a country that currently holds the chair in the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers.
This issue concerns a strong partner of the European Union.
We will be demonstrating on Friday afternoon in Brussels and in many other places in Europe against the violations of human rights committed against peaceful demonstrators.
The crisis that the fisheries sector has long endured, which is due to aspects such as the commercialisation of fisheries, namely how first sale prices are established, has been exacerbated by the dramatic rise in the price of fuel.
Since 1989 more than 20 000 doctors have left Poland, and 1&#160;500 specialist doctors left the country in the five months after accession to the EU.
Every year we train 2&#160;000 doctors, which means that for over 12 years we have been training doctors for other countries.
This leader of the democratic opposition, who is also a Nobel Peace Prize holder, has been cut off from the outside world for 10 of the last 17 years.
Today I would like to raise once again the matter of respect for human rights as a basic and fundamental principle of the European Communities.
There is a great discrepancy between minority protection systems in the ten new and the fifteen old Member States.
While all ten new Member States ratified the two legally binding minority protection documents of the Council of Europe, the Language Charter and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, three of the old Member States, namely France, Belgium and Greece, have not done so as yet.
Old Member States ought to catch up with the new Member States in respect of minority protection.
It is typical that regional and minority languages have been completely left out of the Mavrommatis report concerning multilingualism, recently adopted by the European Parliament.
It is typical that the minority pages have been completely left out of the D Plan launched by the European Commission to regain the trust of European Union citizens, while every seventh European citizen speaks a minority language. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today the leader of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr&#160;Schulz, insolently and arrogantly attacked members of the Polish Government and their right to take decisions that reflect the will of the majority of the Polish people.
Mr&#160;Schulz’s lack of respect for democracy does not surprise me, as his political champions have been Karl Marx and Rosa Luxembourg.
Mr&#160;Schulz, the most bloodthirsty form of totalitarianism emerged not in Poland, but in your country, where today neo-fascist organisations are growing in strength and taking to the streets.
I would therefore ask you to deal with these demonstrations, which pose a real threat to Europe, rather than condemning the Polish Prime Minister for merely upholding the will of the majority of Poles who support family values and who do not support hedonistic, pornographic parades by gay activists.
German domination of Europe is fortunately a thing of the past, so please, Mr&#160;Schulz, remember this once and for all, and keep your German aspirations well clear of Poland’s internal affairs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like us in the European Parliament to acknowledge the real effects of the Russia-EU summit in Sochi, rather than the media impact.
I think we shall do that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw the House’s attention to a grave problem that is currently emerging in some EU Member States, and which constitutes a threat to fundamental rights, freedoms and civil liberties.
We in the European Parliament cannot idly stand by and watch as restrictions are imposed on democracy, on the right of European citizens to express their own opinions and on freedom of assembly.
This threat is all the more menacing when representatives of governments consent to violations of citizens’ rights, as is unfortunately the case at present in my own country, Poland.
A year ago, the fuel indicator of one of these two helicopters was sent to a company called Vibro-Meter in the UK for repair.
That is because trade, whether at a regional, national or international level, is not an end or value in itself, but rather a means of ensuring that people are provided with goods in order to satisfy their needs.
The more that politics edges away from organising the economic order and leaves it to liberal market forces to do as they wish, the more the goals of social cohesion move further away – all the more so since at the same time social rights, democratic participation and environmental protection are ignored and regional and local conditions and particularities are not sufficiently taken into account.
Politics has the task of creating basic conditions capable of producing social development that is peaceful, that avoids exclusion and that promotes prosperity.
Until now this has proven successful in countries where industrialisation could first of all take place under the protection of state measures, where an institutional framework was in place to regulate the distribution of social and economic wealth, where a sufficiently robust economic sector existed permitting flexible activity, and where the state was independent enough to support particular economic sectors against the opening up of the market.
I can only refer to just a few aspects of the report here.
Mr Markov’s contribution provides a wealth of information and policy prescriptions on how to tackle the crucial relationship between trade and poverty, both in our bilateral agreements and in multilateral negotiations.
It should take place within a stable and supportive domestic policy framework and, in some cases, will require flanking measures to help bring about the process of adjustment.
Firstly, in trade negotiations, including in the DDA and EPAs, and as recommended by the report, the EU respects the right of developing countries to liberalise progressively and to maintain flexibilities for their sensitive sectors.
Commission-managed, trade-related assistance was around EUR&#160;850&#160;million a year in the period 2001-2004 and, on the basis of the pledge that President Barroso made at the last G8 Summit, this will rise to EUR&#160;1&#160;billion in 2007.
The Commission is also a pioneer in carrying out trade sustainability impact assessments – SIAs – to assess the potential impact of trade liberalisation on all three pillars of sustainable development.
Since 1999, we have carried out these assessments on all the EU’s major trade negotiations, identifying areas where flanking measures may be needed.
With respect to the recommendations of the report on labour standards and social rights, although labour is regrettably not part of the DDA, all our recent trade, bilateral and regional agreements recognise and promote social rights, including gender equality, child labour, forced labour and freedom of association.
DG Trade is also funding an ILO pilot project on decent work indicators to predict and monitor the impact of trade on decent work.
I remain committed to informing Parliament regularly and to listening to your views on major trade and development matters, as I have done to date and will continue to do in the future. &#160;&#160; – It is a well known fact that fair trade can be an effective means of reducing poverty.
However, in the last 10 years, the proportion of world trade represented by the poorest countries, trading mostly in low added value products – agricultural raw materials and extracted natural resources, has decreased.
To achieve this, it is not enough to put fair trade rules, bilateral and multilateral trade relations into practice and improve WTO rules, but we must also develop trade relations between developing countries, the South-South dimension.
In our group we believe that the free and fair trade for which the EU strives is also contributing at present to reducing poverty in many regions of the world.
In English, that is ‘let us establish free and fair trade to make poverty history’. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I too should like to take my turn in congratulating Mr&#160;Markov on his important report and Commissioner&#160;Mandelson on the important speech he made a short while ago.
No&#160;one can doubt that the development of international trade and the liberalisation of international trade have made a decisive contribution to reducing poverty and mitigating the inequalities between developed and developing countries.
As the recent World Bank study showed, the anarchic liberalisation of international trade has resulted in an increase in poverty and the deconstruction of the productive fabric in the poorest countries of Africa.
It should also support with consistency the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 and contribute to the successful completion of the Doha Round negotiations within the framework of a balanced and mutually beneficial compromise.
The emergence of China and India on the global trading scene played a huge role in this feat and they continue to lead the developing world by example.
Whilst bilateral trade agreements have their place, it is multilateral trade negotiations in a multilateral framework for the international trading system that, in our view, are best able to bring equity and balance to the international trading system.
That is why the Doha Development Agenda is so important.
As somebody once said, the victory of ideals has to be organised and, as one of the speakers tonight said, we want to see an organised liberalisation of trade.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.00 a.m. &#160;&#160; – Trade is a fundamental instrument in the current international context.
Trade agreements among countries can ensure political stability and form a solid basis for more or less lasting diplomatic agreements.
Increasingly, therefore, they are the main players in a world based essentially on economic principles.
Trade thus provides an extremely important vehicle and opportunity for economic and social development, but it is also a weapon – largely in the hands of the developed countries – that needs to be used with care, since it can irreversibly determine the future of a country or a geographical area.
It is therefore absolutely crucial for Western countries to make a conscious effort to ensure that current trade practices and new agreements help to narrow the gap between North and South, rather than widening it through procedures that take no account of national differences.
I am also grateful to the Council and to the Austrian Presidency, which have taken note of the views of Parliament and given priority to the regulation of medicinal products for paediatric use.
We were unanimous as to the goal, and our discussions enabled us to reach agreement on the operational aspects of this regulation.
Children therefore need specific pharmaceutical forms, not only for better tolerance but also for greater effectiveness and safety.
This European Regulation creates all the conditions for the development of paediatric medicines, notably by supporting innovation and research and by creating incentives for pharmaceutical laboratories, while at the same time requiring them to develop a paediatric form for every new drug and to make it available in all Member States.
On a large number of points, the Council had already followed Parliament’s recommendations at first reading.
We welcome the official declaration submitted to us and now, of course, await concrete results.
A directive exists on transparency, which establishes the deadlines for setting the price and for the reimbursement for medicines.
The timing differences between Member States are too great.
This is a situation which has negative consequences for patients.
We are therefore requesting that, for five years, any application for an extension of the Supplementary Protection Certificate as a result of a new paediatric indication may be lodged no later than six months before expiry of the certificate.
A great debate is currently in progress to find the best way of promoting Europe to our fellow citizens.
This regulation on paediatric medication is a concrete response to that expectation.
Thanks to the constructive cooperation between the three institutions we now have the opportunity to bring this legislative procedure to a close.
In the European Union today, more than half of the medicinal products given to children have never been tested for this usage.
With the new Regulation this problem will be solved in the interests of children.
It creates incentives for first-class research in this field and promotes the development and licensing of high-quality, effective medicines for children.
The European Parliament was quite right to point out the significance of the Transparency Directive.
Decisions about pricing policies and reimbursement of costs are the responsibilities of the Member States.
We have therefore intensified our efforts to scrutinise more thoroughly the proper execution of the Directive in all Member States and to ensure that it is more effectively enforced.
Working in partnership with Member States and concerned groups, this framework is intended to provide solutions to urgent questions relating to the medicinal products sector, including among other things aspects of price and reimbursement.
The European Parliament has also raised the important question of substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction.
Nevertheless I believe that the amendments – which, together with this Regulation, aim at prohibiting the use of such substances as auxiliary agents in medicinal products in general – are problematic for two reasons.
Secondly, we cannot rule out the possibility that – precisely for certain important medicinal products – such auxiliary agents are indispensable.
The Commission believes that a further thorough scientific analysis of these issues is necessary, before we decide on possible measures.
Within six months of the delivery of the opinion, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council about the measures that it plans to put in place.
The proposal will improve health protection for our children and it will simultaneously promote innovation and competitiveness in the European medicinal products industry.
I wish to thank the Commissioner and all those who have worked on this project, in particular however Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt, the shadow rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, who contributed a great deal and who unfortunately cannot be here today.
In some of these families children have died, because medicinal products that lacked authorisation were not administered or because, for example, children suffering from HIV were given too weak a dosage, which caused the children to become resistant to the medication.
I particularly welcome the fact that the Council and the Commission have taken up the proposal to impose the MICE programme on off-patent medicines.
At first reading I was not completely satisfied with the uniform period of six months.
The Commission’s proposal is of major significance to children, parents and industry alike.
I have to say that our group was very divided on this proposal.
This compensation could even be substantial, but for many of our group, the extension of the patent by another six months went a little too far.
The bill for medicinal products need not become unnecessarily steep and that is why – and that is also my final comment – we are looking forward with eager anticipation to the assessment and review of this directive, which will then make evident what the six months’ of patent extension have yielded, what the economic costs are and whether it causes detriment to the industry’s innovative strength. &#160;&#160; - Madam President, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, especially on her negotiation skills and on the constructive result that we have today.
This regulation on the security of children’s medical products is a great success for patients in Europe.
This is why the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe supports this helpful compromise, which makes an agreement with the Council at second reading possible.
If the research-conducting producers of medicines require an additional incentive in order to develop their products, then they should get it.
Finally, economic logic requires it too.
If this incentive has the additional effect of strengthening European research and attracting research-conducting pharmaceutical businesses back to Europe, then this is positive. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the aim of the Parliament and Council regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use is to improve children’s health in Europe by developing specific medicinal products designed to help children combat disease.
Health, and particularly children’s health, is a priority in itself.
This is a question we should all ask ourselves, and which should form the basis for further discussion.
With regards to the regulation, however, I am definitely opposed to reducing the period during which a company can apply to extend sole marketing authorisation for the basic product from two years to six months.
This proposal was voted on at first reading, when only 1% of votes cast in Parliament were in favour of it.
I would like to express my regret that due to lack of support during the vote in May, no amendments were adopted to prevent abuse of the system of remuneration and incentives that are permissible under the provisions of the regulation under discussion.
On the other hand, I do believe that it is important that producers of medicinal products be reimbursed for the costs incurred when carrying out trials of the use of medicines in children.
Such compensation could take the form of patenting new means of administering medication or forms of a medicinal substance and of giving sole marketing rights for medicinal products for children.
It is important here to stress that medicinal products used in adults should only be subject to investigation for their use in children where this is reasonable and necessary.
Finally, I would like to express my full support for the establishment of a Paediatrics Research Committee made up of members with specialist knowledge and competence, and who are independent experts in their fields.
I believe this to be a very positive solution. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the organisation of healthcare in the Member States is based upon solidarity through hospital networks, social security systems and mutual insurance schemes.
Finally, in relation to the provisions on risk management and pharmacovigilance, we must be careful to ensure they are properly implemented and, if necessary, be ready to amend our text. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; I am pleased with this proposal, because I am convinced that it will result in more medicinal products developed and tested specifically for children being launched onto the market.
This is, above all, of great importance for young patients suffering from serious illnesses such as cancer or disorders of the immune system.
It is therefore a good thing that European legislation should promote research into medicinal products that have been developed specifically for children and that we can thus put an end to this uncertainty. &#160;&#160; It is good that we have recognised the need to test children’s medicine specifically for children.
The long-term effects on children must be studied not just to look at accumulative effect, as we do with adult medicines, but to look at the particular effect the medicine has at different stages of a child’s development and on the health of the young adult they become.
Scientific testing must be specific, in this case for children, and must be updated.
Parliament’s extremely active participation and its amendments have made an essential contribution to the constructive development of the Commission’s proposal.
The Commission’s proposal, made in April of last year, for a Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme should signal our willingness to follow up the analysis with the necessary effective steps to more growth and employment.
We want to use this programme to establish a link between the means and the political ends.
Naturally we must ensure that research also produces marketable results, but innovation goes beyond that.
The speed with which an agreement has been reached is due, above all, to the work of the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Chatzimarkakis, his shadow rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Thomson, Mr&#160;Vakalis and Mr&#160;Turmes, who have accomplished much through truly positive and flexible cooperation with the presidency.
The Commission has followed this process closely, and I should like to express my full support, on behalf of the Commission, of the supplemented proposal.
I should like to make particular mention of Josef Mandl and Matthias Martinek, who managed to dispel the reservations of several Member States.
Our very first priority was to place this programme at the service of small and medium-sized enterprises.
These are the main parties involved; they must be the ones to drive innovation in Europe, and we placed them in the foreground by removing many sometimes obviously bureaucratic obstructions, for instance through a new Vademecum.
In our committees we are currently engaged in negotiations on the seventh Framework Programme for Research, and I have been in close collaboration with Mr&#160;Buzek, the rapporteur, who is also here today and will say a few words shortly, despite not actually being on the CIP speaking list.
This Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme creates scope not only for inventions but for their concrete application in Europe as well.
And my particular thanks also go to the Commission, to Commissioner Verheugen, whose work on this programme has proved his dedication to promoting innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises.
The members of the committee therefore voted in favour of this proposal. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP) is to contribute to the EU’s capacity for innovation and its competitiveness, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, entirely in accordance with the goals of the Lisbon Strategy in terms of growth and jobs.
Adding value occurs at all stages of the value chain, which means that innovation in distribution, marketing or management is just as important as innovation in production.
In connection with the current debate about which direction Europe should take in its energy policy, it is a positive thing that we have been able to retain the environmental focus that has been a central element of the Intelligent Energy for Europe Programme.
One reason for this is that energy efficiency and renewable forms of energy are amongst the areas in which more innovation can make the biggest contribution to the competitiveness of the EU.
I believe that it is essential to ensure sound coordination between the CIP, the Seventh Framework Programme for Research, the programme for Life-Long Learning and, especially, the Structural Funds.
I hope that the Commission will focus on the gender-specific dimension in relation to entrepreneurship, and it pleases me a great deal that the programme will provide the opportunity for microfinance, since precisely this form of financing is of particular advantage to women. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the reply to the question as to whether or not I am satisfied with the final text which we shall vote on tomorrow is, yes I am.
The answer to the question of whether or not I am satisfied with the development of competitiveness and innovation in Europe is no, compared with our international competitors.
I am not satisfied, because it is important for us to improve, although that is not enough, because we need additional means, measures and actions at all levels, because we are not, for example, applying a bold public procurement policy to innovative small- and medium-sized businesses, because – unlike the USA – few of our businesses look on innovation as a worthwhile investment, because – generally speaking – we are lacking a culture of innovation and a culture of entrepreneurship.
To close, I thank the Austrian Presidency and the Commission for their excellent cooperation, as a result of which the programme was approved on time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Mr&#160;Chatzimarkakis; tomorrow we will be voting in favour of competitiveness and innovation, and once again we will move a little closer towards the Lisbon Objective.
A European Institute of Technology could help us turn innovation into products.
The Framework Programme stresses the need to support the work of small and medium-sized enterprises.
I fully support this programme, as well as Mr&#160;Chatzimarkakis’ report.
The programme guarantees the provision of industry funding for innovation, and will boost small and medium-sized enterprises in particular.
In the end, it will be the citizens of the Union themselves within the framework of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy that will be the real beneficiaries of the EU-wide promotion of competitiveness and innovation. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the report by Mr&#160;Langen on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the enlargement of the euro zone [2006/2103(INI)] (A6-0191/2006). &#160;&#160; .
You have adopted a very clear position, and for that you have my wholehearted thanks.
Following the debates in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and those conducted within political groups, as well as the agreements made amongst the groups, I am convinced that the Commission’s stance will be largely supported.
The euro has been successful across the board, since it has ensured monetary stability both within the euro zone, with low rates of inflation, and in relation to outside currencies.
This is only possible if we observe not only the provisions of the Maastricht Treaty but also the Stability and Growth Pact.
All the others are compelled to accept the supervision of their budgetary and financial policies and the appraisal of their level of convergence.
The difference, which was not evident to all here in Parliament – even in discussions within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs – is that, under the Regulations of 1997, both members of the euro zone and states with a derogation are subject to supervision of their budgetary and financial policies and to coordination of their economic policies.
This is why, after lengthy debates, we have adopted a report which is strongly guided by the Maastricht Treaty in terms of entry criteria, which are as follows: price stability; a candidate for entry must have a rate of inflation no more than 1.5% higher than that of the three best EU Member States.
I sometimes get the impression that the Maastricht Treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact are being misinterpreted.
I am convinced that premature introduction of the euro is detrimental to the Member States, since real convergence and financial, economic and monetary stability are essential when determining the ultimate exchange rate so that an accession candidate, having entered and no longer being able to devalue or revalue, does not default.
The European Central Bank has defined a value close to 2% as price stability for the evaluation of its monetary policy, and we are keen to become fully involved in this dialogue.
I am grateful for the constructive cooperation of my fellow Members.
I must tell you that, over the coming weeks, we are going to approve a new report, because from now on those reports will be published by the Commission every six months, rather than every year.
They are preparations of a technical nature, which are very important in terms of keeping public opinion informed and trying to prevent the kind of abuse in the exchange between the national currency and the single currency that has happened in the past in certain cases.
Of course, the candidates for joining the eurozone must prepare themselves for fulfilling the criteria laid down in the Treaty, since the Treaty of Maastricht.
The debate has focussed more on this last aspect, because, as you know, a few weeks ago the Commission and the European Central Bank adopted convergence reports in response to the requests of Slovenia and Lithuania.
In those reports, the Commission – and the European Central Bank – gave their interpretation of the application of the criteria laid down in the Treaty.
Our obligation, therefore – and we have done this on other occasions and we will do so in the future – is to apply the Treaty and to apply it rigorously, since that is the only way to guarantee equal treatment for each and every Member State seeking to join the eurozone.
This is laid down clearly in the Treaty.
That has always been our policy, and it still is our policy.
In addition, it has been the policy of the Group of the European People’s Party throughout recent years to fight for a strong euro in line with the Maastricht criteria and accompanied by strict adherence to the Stability and Growth Pact.
We will therefore continue this policy in pursuit of a stable euro and so would like to assure the Commission of our unequivocal support for the clear stance it has taken on the question of our future approach to enlargement of the euro zone.
It has the support of Parliament.
I say this because Parliament will ask the Commission whether it can vouch for the data on which it bases its recommendation.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament fully supports this notion.
The conditions for joining the euro zone are enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty in the form of so-called ‘nominal convergence criteria’.
These criteria must be fulfilled in order to join the common currency area, and fulfilment of them is sufficient in order to do so.
However, there have been attempts to impose additional conditions on the new Member States, such as ‘real convergence’, or the ‘euro zone absorption capacity’, which has not been defined in detail.
There must be no double standards when it comes to new and old Member States.
If we fully agree that the provisions of the Treaty must be respected, we should abide by the rule that we are bound by the Treaty, the whole Treaty and nothing but the Treaty.
These problems became glaringly obvious in the recent convergence reports on Lithuania and Slovenia.
The definition of price stability that the European Commission and the European Central Bank used in their reports assessing fulfilment of the inflation criteria was contrary to the definition of price stability that the ECB applies in its monetary policy.
This situation gives cause for concern, because the European Commission’s decisions must be reliable and should not give rise to doubts concerning partisanship or lack of objectivity.
Mr President, the convergence criteria formulated 15 years ago, when the Member States still had national currencies and separate monetary policies, should be adapted to the current situation, in which the new Member States are joining an existing common currency area.
This requires appropriate amendments to the relevant provisions of Article&#160;121 of the Treaty and the Protocol to the Treaty.
After all, we reviewed the Stability and Growth Pact methodology without any difficulties.
The voice of small countries must also be heard.
In reality, the admission criteria were only used as reference points, and political decisions were the real deciding force.
Thus, for example, the permissible inflation level was also set by reference to countries that are not in the euro zone and, most paradoxical of all, the best inflation indicators differ from the European Central Bank’s vision concerning the best level of price stability in the euro zone.
The demand for countries to achieve exchange rate stability together with the inflation indicators makes this criterion even more contradictory.
Concerns expressed in the report concerning potential problems with the applicant countries following accession to the euro zone cannot be attributed to the small, flexible economies of, for example, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, which are also open economies and have since the beginning of the 1990s had experience of exchange rates fixed over the long term.
Rather, what we can detect in the report is the theme of the notorious Polish plumber. &#160;&#160; – Although I&#160;am not from Lithuania, in the context of the matter under discussion, I&#160;would like to comment on the matter of Lithuania’s joining the euro&#160;zone.
For a&#160;number of years now the country has achieved good economic results which would be a&#160;cause for jubilation in the vast majority of euro&#160;zone countries.
For a&#160;long time, and with a&#160;great deal to spare, it has also met the Maastricht criteria for the public spending deficit, for public sector debt and long-term interest rates, unlike most of the euro&#160;zone countries.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report clearly defines the relationship with the citizens of the European Union, that is, with the consumers, which is necessary if there is to be a successful transition to the single currency in the accession countries.
We are all aware of the importance of the Euro project for European integration and how important it is that all parties in the process of Eurozone enlargement retain their credibility.
This also means that we have to follow the criteria which have been set in a consistent manner, and that we must not the change the rules of the game halfway through.
I say this in the belief that the further enlargement of the Eurozone is important for the political development of the European Union and also if it is to play a more powerful role in a globalised world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in congratulating Slovenia, I would like to remind you that Lithuania has met all of the Maastricht criteria for five consecutive years, except for a one-month period during which inflation exceeded the criteria by a small margin.
However, it was exactly at that time that the Commission rushed to make a negative recommendation.
The situation could be restored.
I also invite the initiation of a broader discussion on the legitimacy and application of the present convergence criteria in the enlarged EU. &#160;&#160; – The report on the expansion of the Euro zone being debated is uncommonly unprofessional and meaningless.
Discrimination against Euro&#160;zone candidate countries is obvious when double standards are applied.
An indicator stability requirement, not made previously, must now be fulfilled prior to expansion, irrespective of the fact that today's economic and political situation is different from that which existed 15 years ago when the Euro&#160;zone was created.
I urge the Commission and the Council to take the EU's economic and political realities into account, to improve the Maastricht criteria and implement them in all Member States and continue the expansion of the Euro&#160;zone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in taking the floor in this debate I would like to draw attention to the following issues.
Firstly, the report quite clearly states that new Member States must meet all the Maastricht criteria before they can join the euro zone.
At the same time it passes over the fact that when the euro was introduced, many old Member States did not meet these criteria.
Once again the political signal being sent out is that some are more equal than others in the EU.
Secondly, since the introduction of the euro in 2002, at least five countries, including the largest – Germany, France and Italy – have not complied with the most important criteria, and have been unable to keep their budget deficits and public debt under control.
In some of these countries, public debt greatly exceeds 60% of GDP, which means they will have to restrict it for many years to come.
Despite this the continued membership of these countries in the monetary and currency union not only continues unquestioned, but nobody is making any particular effort to force these countries to change the current state of affairs.
The recent amendments to the Stability and Growth Pact which benefited Germany and France are glaring examples of this.
I would like to say four things: firstly, that the Commission is, of course, in favour of enlarging the eurozone.
We do so regardless of whether those who are to join the eurozone over the coming years are new or old Member States – a distinction which we believe belongs in the past – or whether they be large or small, rich or not so rich.
This afternoon I have had the opportunity to attend the debate at which Prime Minister Verhofstadt spoke about the future Constitution, the necessary changes and the future of Europe.
Of course the Treaty can be changed, and it will be changed eventually.
It says that the reference value consists of the average inflation of the three best performing Member States in terms of inflation.
The Treaty's inflation criterion says something else though: it also says that the inflation of the Member State in question must be sustainable.
In the inflation criterion, however, in addition to the difference, in addition to the comparison between the inflation of the Member State and the reference value, the Treaty states that we must analyse whether or not the inflation of the Member State in question is sustainable.
We cannot ignore the Treaty, and we are not going to.
But please do not ask the Commission to say anything in the convergence reports that goes against a rational, clear and transparent application of the Treaty. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; – When the press announces that Otmar Issing is leaving the European Central Bank (ECB), but that the monetarist legacy will live on, it is merely confirming our view that monetarist guidelines continue to prevail and to guide the EU’s economic and social policy, regardless of who is in charge of the ECB.
As we know, and the Langen report confirms this, joining the euro requires ‘total compliance with the Maastricht criteria’, which implies meeting the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, and observing the guidelines of the European Central Bank, the European monetary authority whose decisions have an impact throughout economic life.
The report expressly states that ‘Euro changeover should not be tackled and projected as simply a technical change in currency but as a major conversion with significant economic, monetary and social effects’.
Unfortunately, in Portugal we are very familiar with this situation and its effects, as confirmed by the recent spring 2006-2007 economic forecasts.
The loss of monetary sovereignty has ramifications for the real convergence of economies, serving the economic groups, directly or indirectly.
Hence our opposition to this report. &#160;&#160; In September 2003 there was a referendum in which the people of Sweden were given the opportunity to decide whether Sweden should introduce the euro as its currency.
The verdict, not surprisingly, was a loud and clear ‘no’.
It is now two years since ten new Member States joined the EU.
It is not just a question of changing coins and notes, but also of giving up a part of your independence.
In this type of scenario, the implementation of activity-based budgeting commands greater importance.
The report, moreover, stresses the fact that the budget should reflect actual budgetary needs.
It would be inadvisable to release these funds until the outstanding and unclear issues surrounding those premises have been satisfactorily clarified.
The report also addresses the issues relating to the visitors’ programme and information policy.
This situation is untenable and Members expect the Bureau to take a decision prior to first reading.
In principle we agree that more needs to be done to improve connectivity between the citizens and the new institutions that represent them.
In our report we have also referred to a number of other priorities that we have to address, such as training, recruitment related to enlargement, the assistants’ statute, security and contracts relating to external supplies.
Regrettably, I do not have the time to address all these points, but we certainly cannot ignore them.
First, it has always been said that we are spending 20% more than in the previous year.
Why does Parliament decide things in general if they are not put into practice?
I hope that Parliament’s President will ensure that Parliament’s will is implemented with regard to this matter and that the EUR five million will be spent.
The second issue I want to raise is the annual question of the car service.
I thoroughly support the suggestions of having web TV and an improved visitors’ centre. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would also very much like to thank Mr&#160;Grech for his constructive and thorough work on Parliament’s Budget for 2007.
We are dealing here with a budget of just under EUR&#160;1.4&#160;billion, and there are three points to which I would like to draw attention.
These are conditions that are very specific to the European Parliament but also conditions that we are not, ourselves, in control of.
A third point that I would like to raise is the matter of the purchase of buildings in Strasbourg.
Personally, I would prefer it if Parliament were able to content itself with being located in Brussels, so that we could work effectively on this issue too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am speaking in the expectation of being allowed the same length of time as the previous speakers, to whom you were very generous.
What you present us with here is really an extremely sad situation.
Yet again, the report shows that the budget is to be raised by another 4.2% and that another 250 new posts are to be established.
It is clear that a group of people have hijacked the European project, and I am, regrettably, convinced that those who acquiesce once again will go down in history as benighted squanderers.
What we have here is a disgrace and is unworthy of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am very glad that the European Parliament shares the Commission’s view on the importance of intercultural dialogue and the priority it should be given in the European Union.
The Commission welcomes the majority of the amendments.
The Commission is particularly sensitive to the call for strong cooperation with civil society and to the emphasis on the role of education.
Firstly, we cannot subscribe to limiting the resources for the communication and information campaign to EUR&#160;2&#160;million.
Another financial issue is the level of co-financing of the actions at national level, which an amendment proposes to increase to up to 80%.
As already stated, due to the limited budget of the Year, this change would significantly reduce the number of events that could be co-financed, as well as the commitment of partners at national level.
The original proposal for 50% cofinancing is the standard formula which has been retained for all previous European Years.
A number of amendments introduce a discrepancy between the geographical scope of the Year, which is limited to the European Union, and some new objectives and actions to be carried out with respect to third countries.
The Commission proposed to concentrate the specific instrument on the Year of Intercultural Dialogue within the European Union, while committing itself to developing a parallel effort for the dialogue in, and with, third countries on the basis of external relations instruments.
Some amendments include problematic references to several very concrete actions.
Unfortunately, it cannot support the amendment suggesting the participation of representatives of the European Parliament in the Advisory Committee.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for setting out the Commission’s views so clearly.
First of all, I should like to thank my fellow Members who have assisted me in this task, all the committees which have submitted amendments and everyone who has given me advice.
The question Parliament has to consider is: can we express aspirations and launch an initiative for intercultural dialogue without extending the subject in advance to the issues that really interest us, and also without discussing thorny issues such as inter-faith dialogue?
Firstly, reference is made in Article&#160;2 to the European Union’s common values.
In adhering to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, we make it sufficiently clear that our common basis and the one we have all accepted is the one which guarantees non-discrimination between the sexes and equality of opportunity in all its aspects.
It is obvious that the media will have a major role to play and we must use the opportunity of the large-scale gatherings and emblematic events planned for 2008 to combat, in particular, the trafficking of human beings and enforced prostitution.
On another point: the Internet portal will have to be developed and, when the Commission says that it cannot agree with a lower budget for communication and information, I would ask the Commissioner if the overall budget could not be increased.
Our Committee on Culture and Education has already pointed out to him that a budget of EUR&#160;10&#160;million is extremely small to achieve the objectives set for this year.
In these circumstances, your comment that you would like to revert to the initial budget is unsatisfactory.
In relation to the dialogue with the religious world, I have to point out, here, Mr President, that only yesterday the President of the Council and the President of the Commission launched a debate with the representatives of religious communities on the issue of fundamental rights and mutual respect.
Despite that, Parliament is asked to refer to that aspect only in the recitals, whereas in my view Parliament must also be ready to engage in that dialogue.
I would emphasise, with the support of my colleagues, the importance of this aspect of intercultural dialogue in the broader sense.
The European project derives its richness from the cultural diversity of its Member States.
In parallel there is a need to increase awareness among the rest of the world of the cultures and values of the Union, in order to foster mutual understanding.
As shadow rapporteur of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the European Year in 2007, I would emphasise the importance of cohesion and consistency in the actions to be undertaken in 2007 in support of universal equality of opportunity, and would also stress the importance of cohesion in the initiatives forming part of the 2008 cultural dialogue, as these two years complement one another.
I would also invite the Commission and the parties involved – in particular civil society, as the Commissioner has said – to take the opportunity of the major events planned for 2008, such as the football World Cup or the Olympic Games, to make the public, and especially the target group of young people, more aware of the importance of intercultural dialogue. &#160;&#160; .Mr President, the idea that 2008 should become the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue emerged in connection with the EU’s enlargement to include 10 new Member States, which have added cultural, linguistic and religious diversity to the Community.
This initiative is entirely appropriate to the challenges faced by Europe today, and it fully addresses the need for multi-level dialogue with a view to building mutual understanding based on respect and tolerance.
Unfortunately, this noble idea has not been backed up by an appropriate budget.
EUR 10 million divided by 27 countries, with no additional support from the Member States, will not pay for any high-profile or truly valuable cultural events.
We should, however, hope that with the appropriate use of other programmes intended to fund cultural actions, and by involving representatives of civil society, non-governmental and religious organisations, schools, universities and especially the media, we will be able to join forces to achieve the ambitious aims for 2008 despite the modest and nominal budget.
This would serve to make it a dialogue, rather than a money-saving cultural monologue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur and draftsmen, because their work has highlighted all the aspects and possibilities of the Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
This initiative is directly interconnected with all the internal and external challenges of the European Union.
Indeed, maintaining and strengthening the multicultural aspect of Europe is a decisive factor for its integration.
At the same time, a dialogue of cultures and citizens from around the world – because it is the citizens who are the vehicle for the culture – is needed for peace and equilibrium.
The tradition of the European Union and our development goals are such that we need an open society of dialogue seeking common values with the citizens of other countries in our Member States in order to achieve mutual understanding, mutual respect and less discrimination.
The European Parliament is a democratic forum in which political debate relates to the lives, everyday existence and concerns of the people.
The EU has a common cultural heritage and respects cultural diversity.
That is why I wish to stress most emphatically that interreligious dialogue must be a major part of intercultural dialogue.
If we want to promote intercultural dialogue, as we should, but fail to mention interreligious dialogue, then we are betraying it.
Education must also play an essential part in the action, on the European level as well as nationally and regionally.
Civic education and initiatives designed to promote understanding of others in their diversity are a contribution to constructive and effective dialogue.
The States and all competent levels of administration should promote educational policies based on values and respect for the diversity and equality of people, eradicating the prejudices that are often the cause of distrust and xenophobic attitudes.
A firm and responsible approach is therefore required, aimed at promoting knowledge, cooperation, respect and mutual understanding.
As you know, it was an initiative of the Spanish Prime Minister, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and the Turkish Prime Minister, and it currently has the support of the United Nations as a whole.
I am convinced that, when this programme is applied, this complementarity will become clear, because in reality the two programmes must work together. &#160;&#160; . – The implementation of the programme for the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue will help to achieve the fundamental obligation of the European Union – to enable Member State cultures to flourish and highlight Europe's common cultural heritage.
It has been a very good experience from which we have all benefited.
It is important to recognise cultural diversity in Europe – within each Member State, each society, each region and each nation – in order to achieve unity with diversity.
That is our European point of view.
We can only build European citizenship if we recognise this diversity and if everyone agrees on the same common project for Europe.
On religion and intercultural dialogue, we should understand that the recognition of religious values can only come through intercultural dialogue.
Attempts to create a so-called ‘European culture’ as a universal and uniform culture for all will bring more losses than benefits.
The desire to eliminate the languages of nations which are smaller and thereby weaker within the European Union from the list of official languages and from legal communication, including business communication, is extremely detrimental to cultural dialogue.
Evidence of this can be seen for example in the voting in the European Parliament on the report on the promotion of multilingualism and language learning.
It is often forgotten that languages and traditional culture are the mainstay on which national cultures survive and develop.
There is a chronic lack of funding for protection of this wealth in the European Union.
Funds are however available for large projects and for professional cultural events, whose scope sometimes even extends beyond Europe.
In order to initiate a lasting cultural dialogue, equal opportunities and cultural partnership need to be maintained. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Year of Intercultural Dialogue is intended to help to foster harmony in the multicultural societies of the EU Member States.
The way in which the budget of this project has been structured would strongly indicate that the oft-proclaimed and highly ambitious ‘main aim of the project, to promote dialogue among all cultures and among everyone living in the European Union,’ will be difficult, if not impossible to fulfil.
The reason for this is simple – a lack of financial resources to establish wide-ranging dialogue between people at national and at bilateral and multilateral international levels.
It is rather late, but it is a very important debate.
I think we all agree on the importance of the intercultural dialogue.
I would agree, as usual, that the Commission’s proposals have been improved by the work of rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs in Parliament and we can be proud of this.
At the same time, once again I would like to defend the budget that we have allocated for communication and information purposes.
Other sources should also be used. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Following last January’s energy crisis, the constant rise in the price of a barrel of crude, amongst other factors, has reopened an in-depth debate on the lack of a common energy policy within the Union, the vulnerability of our supply system, the worrying increase in protectionist attitudes and the need to substantially improve our habits, as well as the efficiency of our consumption.
This report is also intended to remind the Member States that, if the different directives in force are complied with, the Union could achieve 50% of its energy saving objectives, as well as the majority of its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, without the need to take any new measures.
I believe that it is important to emphasise this message because the great majority of the agreements amongst the Member States from the last Spring Council relate to compliance with existing obligations.
The report that we will approve tomorrow also includes recommendations that are worth highlighting here: the need for massive investment in improvements to infrastructures – given that we suffer an average 12% loss in transmission networks, with losses of up to 20% in certain Member States; the completion of the internal energy market; greater investment in research, development and innovation in the field of more efficient technologies; the introduction of stricter requirements for domestic appliances and tighter controls of products available on the European market that do not conform to minimum standards; efficiency criteria in relations with developing countries; and strengthened dialogue with the main energy-producing countries.
I believe that this document makes many useful suggestions for the Commission in drawing up the action plan.
This is the ideal time to take some courageous steps in the right direction, since we have on our side both the good will of the Member States and the will and interest of the citizens.
The action plan will build on existing legislation, and will focus on practical measures.
This will, therefore, be the first priority in our action plan.
On this issue, I would like to mention the following: the Commission is launching a comprehensive study on the energy efficiency potential in the different Member States.
This study will give a clear overview of national potentials and the Commission will compare this with the ambition levels in the Member States.
In this way, we hope to increase the ambition levels of the Member States.
I agree that fiscal measures can be a very effective instrument to further energy efficiency.
Regarding financial incentives to speed up market transformation, the Commission is considering a number of options in the impact assessment report on the action plan.
I agree that public authorities should lead by example, in particular through their public procurement policy.
In this respect, I also agree with your call for more public information and education, and this will make up the third part of our action plan – behavioural changes.
At the same time, we need to ensure predictability for investment planning by the industry.
The Commission will soon be coming forward with a mid-term review of the transport policy, and transport will also be one of the areas for action in the Energy Efficiency Action Plan.
On external relations, I agree that energy efficiency should be – in fact, it already is – a part of our relations with both energy suppliers and with the consuming regions.
Dialogues on this issue are being held with Russia, OPEC, the United States, China, Japan and India.
However, there is room for more action, both to make full use of the competitive advantage that we already have through existing technologies, but also because it is important in fighting climate change and ensuring security of supply.
I think there is complete agreement between your report and our work, and I would ask you to continue your strong support for our work in the energy efficiency field.
I should like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs once again for this excellent report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy savings help reduce Europe’s dependence on an essential resource, contribute towards sustainable development and, by preventing waste, increase competitiveness.
The text that we are about to adopt is an important step in this direction.
Secondly, the harmonisation of standards must be carried out at international level.
I wish to bring these four suggestions to the fore. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a result of the Brussels Summit in March this year, the European Union now has its own energy policy.
The adoption of the joint strategy is a milestone, because we can only control our overwhelming energy problems with joint efforts.
Therefore, I am also pleased that following my proposal, the document tabled before us also includes, among other things, assistance for the modernisation of energy utilisation in prefabricated housing, which is a significant problem throughout Europe, including Hungary.
I also thank the rapporteur for having supported almost all the proposals I had made as the competent draftsman of the Committee on Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in one minute I should just like to emphasise two points.
We have tried to state that we must be more determined in regarding transport efficiency as the nucleus of a strategy to integrate our policies on competitiveness, sustainability and energy security.
However, I would like to congratulate Mr Vidal-Quadras very much on the splendid set of amendments which he has produced with the other shadow rapporteurs in compromise.
Firstly, the recognition that the prescribed target of a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020 must be amended upwards.
I am referring not only to the Commission’s European action plan but also to national action plans.
I hope that the Commission will take a strong line and ensure that those national action plans are ambitious both in scope and in implementation, given what is now realistically and viably achievable. &#160;&#160; .
We need these staff because we need Commission officials to go outside Brussels and build a new partnership.
On the Committee we voted in favour of the numerous amendments made to Mr&#160;Vidal-Quadras’s report.
I welcomed the Commissioner’s promise to produce a document on energy efficiency in transport in the near future.
When Finland was part of Russia, the tsarist authorities taught the Finns discipline by sending our fellow countrymen to Siberia.
This worked on the principle that Siberia teaches you a lesson.
In this report we aspire to big savings, and the message to the Commission is a long one, but it is crystal clear. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the matter under discussion relates to the efficient use of energy which, once obtained from primary sources, may be converted into useful work or into another form of energy, or used inefficiently in open-ended systems.
In order for these technologies to bear rapid fruit, however, financial priority will need to be accorded to access to EU funding for these projects, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour, I shall begin with a story about a driver who asks the price of a drop of petrol at a petrol station.
We certainly have before us an array of measures and proposals that could help bring about greater energy efficiency.
My analogy was an attempt to illustrate that the potential solutions are all relative and clearly not simple.
In my opinion, the most important is to boost science and research.
I therefore believe that unless we back up our good intentions and rhetoric with adequate financial resources for research and development – and at the moment this is clearly not the case – our goal of raising energy efficiency may be no more than wishful thinking.
A case in point is the Galileo project.
Unless we provide this project with adequate funding, we will not achieve higher energy efficiency in future in an area such as transport, which is unquestionably one of the highest consumers of energy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr&#160;Vidal-Quadras on the broad consensus achieved and the skill he has shown during the process of drawing up this report.
Nevertheless, reality shows that it is essential to move towards a common energy policy and that it is essential that the Member States are committed to moving decisively towards that objective.
Furthermore, greater financial commitment to research and development in the field of energy is essential, specifically with a view to increasing efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
The role of the Commission is to give the political imperative, to provide the instruments for Member States and to raise public awareness, and we are delivering on that.
I cannot accept this argument.
The Commission is doing what it can and is delivering on it.
The report is excellent and will provide us with better opportunities to use the potential of the European Union.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; Energy savings imply a reduction of energy; energy efficiency means doing more with less.
Energy efficiency can be addressed to numerous aspects of our everyday life.
The only way is motivation of a fiscal nature such as tax credits, reduced VAT, reduced licence payments, etc. &#160;&#160; – The recent crisis in the distribution of Russian natural gas supplies has revealed just how dependent Europe is on imported energy sources, and the problem is expected to become appreciably worse in the coming years.
Containing the European Union’s energy demand could prove to be an important factor in solving the problem.
Such a step could lead to greater economic efficiency, generate a trend towards more jobs and help make European industry more competitive, all of which are in line with the aims of the Lisbon Strategy.
The Fourniret case showed that there is nothing to stop a person who is convicted in one Member State for such crimes subsequently moving to another Member State and getting a job there where they have continuous contact with children.
The present framework decision on the recognition and enforcement in the European Union of prohibitions arising from convictions for sexual offences committed against children, as provided for in the framework decision of 2003, aims to close this loophole.
The aim of the proposal is to ensure that prohibitions on working with children ordered by a court in connection with convictions for sexual offences or child pornography offences are applicable not only in the country where they are imposed, but in any other EU Member State to which the person covered by the prohibition moves.
The proposed framework decision will implement the following solutions: - it requires Member States where the convicted person is resident to recognise a prohibition issued in another Member State and to enforce that prohibition within their own territory; - it introduces an obligation to enter all prohibitions imposed on convicted child sex offenders on a register of convicted persons, including prohibitions issued in other Member States; - it provides for an obligation whereby another Member State must be informed of a prohibition when other information from the register of convicted persons is forwarded in accordance with international and EU regulations on legal assistance in criminal matters; - it imposes an obligation on a Member State whose register of convicted persons is consulted for the criminal record of a particular person to apply in all such cases for information from the register of convicted persons of the Member State of which the person is a national.
The proposed amendments to the draft framework decision will, in particular, contribute firstly to broadening the definition of a prohibition to include prohibitions on any activity of any nature in public or private institutions engaged in supervising or working with children.
The aim here is to ensure that such prohibitions apply not only to teachers or supervisors working with children, but also to ancillary staff working in the same institutions.
In the second place, it is to extend the protection of EU citizens by obliging Member States to enter prohibitions imposed in non-EU Member States on the register of convicted persons, and to regulate dual citizenship cases.
Finally, I must underline that the proposed framework decision is an example of the practical implementation of the conclusions of the 1999 Tampere European Council, where it was established that the mutual exchange of information about sentencing in criminal matters should become a cornerstone of judicial collaboration within the European Union.
We should bear in mind that there are no ideal solutions, but I am convinced that the effective implementation of this decision will greatly contribute to the safety of our children.
This document, however, must not represent an end to the fight against paedophilia.
Every employing institution should therefore introduce requirements for screening every person for child sex offences. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am particularly grateful to the rapporteur for his work.
I can say in advance that generally the Commission agrees with all initiatives that aim at strengthening our firm, no-tolerance fight against paedophile activities at a European level.
It will also ensure that those who still think that such crimes can be committed will not only be severely punished but also prevented from travelling and committing such crimes more easily in another European Union country.
It was truly abnormal that a citizen convicted of abuse in one EU state, including sexual abuse against children, could again find work in children’s education institutions in another EU state, despite the fact that in its judgment the court had forbidden the citizen from doing so.
I would urge my colleagues to approve the report and trust that all EU states will ensure that this new rule is introduced as a matter of urgency.
As the convict in question was able to return to paid employment in Belgium and took advantage of the situation, we must do everything we can to avoid this sort of thing happening again.
There are, however, major differences between national laws in the area of removal from employment, which can be accomplished by means of criminal law, civil law or administrative arrangements.
What I should like to be told is whether this motion can be implemented without the need for additional funds. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, given the late hour I will make just a few short remarks on the subject.
Police cooperation and the sharing of information in this area also need to be improved, in my opinion, and we might even consider following the American example of making information on these offenders generally accessible. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
