The House would surely like to welcome the news on the peace process in Northern Ireland and the decommissioning of weapons.
Mention must be made at the determination of those involved, including David Trimble, and not least a Member of this House, John Hume, who has fought for peace for over three decades.
Mr Cashman, I am even more pleased to hear this good news because I was on an official visit to Ireland last week, and, naturally, we were all waiting for this announcement.
Mrs McKenna, I had, of course, been informed of the situation that you were in and I am pleased to see that you are back with us.
It has been a long, and at times faltering, road to achieving peace and no one knows that better than our own Nobel Peace Prizewinner, John Hume.
I would also hope that the Belgium presidency would do the same on behalf of the Council for the 15 Member States.
I can tell you that all those I met were more than aware of the European Parliament' s long-standing contribution to the peace process in Northern Ireland.
I could be wrong, but my understanding is that the purpose of parliamentary immunity for Members of Parliament acting in the Parliament - not outside the Parliament - is to allow you to represent the people who elected you.
In other words, when you are outside this House, you are just the same as anyone else.
European Council meeting (Ghent, 19 October 2001) The next item is the European Council report and the Commission statement on the meeting of 19 October 2001 in Ghent.
Originally, as you know, the Ghent Summit was conceived as an informal platform for exchanging ideas about the Union' s enlargement and particularly the Laeken Declaration, which is to structure and launch the debate on the future of Europe later on in the year.
In addition, it was our initial intention to carry out a final assessment of the introduction of the euro.
However, as is often the case - that is, in any case, what I have gleaned from people who have far more experience as Presidents of the Council - the news has somewhat played havoc with that agenda, and with good reason, in my view.
It is a new, multipolar world within which the European Union will need to play a more prominent role.
A month ago, on 21 September exactly, we managed to persuade the Union to adopt one clear, unambiguous and common position.
At the same time, we rubberstamped a far-reaching and detailed action plan against terrorism.
From the Council' s final declaration last Friday in Ghent, it appears that we have managed to sustain this unanimous approach fully.
The prompt and comprehensive implementation of the action plan against terrorism is the second element that I wish to underline briefly.
In addition, we discussed the proposals submitted by our American partners in the Council, and it was agreed in the Council to reinforce our action plan, if necessary.
We should instead intensify the dialogue between Europe and the Arab and Islamic world.
The impression of a triumvirate in the making, one which would probably not have been around if the meeting had taken place elsewhere or at a different time - was reduced to its true proportions after the three people involved assured me that the consultation was one about purely technical-military matters.
The slowdown in growth, which, we must reiterate, had already started before 11 September, and the longer-term uncertainty tell us that we must be careful.
It is essential that Europe - which has no budgetary surplus - observes the Stability and Growth Pact.
We must, however, intensify our efforts in terms of structural reform and accelerate the Lisbon process in order to strengthen the growth potential of the European Union.
During the second part of our meeting, we discussed the issues relating to the future of the European Union and the Laeken Declaration.
There is now broad consensus, also at the specific request of the European Parliament, on the principle of a convention.
However, they will be unable - and I think this goes without saying - to question the proposals on which the Fifteen have already unanimously agreed.
Furthermore, in the near future, I plan to invite the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the rapporteurs of the European Parliament, in order to have a frank and detailed exchange of views with them on the future of the European Union.
First of all, it must be based on a critical analysis, in order to reveal the true challenges facing an enlarged and competent Union, which include the redistribution of competences in both directions - in other words, towards the European Union as well as towards the Member States - a solution to the proliferation of instruments in the European Union, institutions that are more democratic and which ensure, amongst others, a full co-decision procedure involving the European Parliament, the first steps of a process that leads to the treaties being divided into one fundamental treaty and several executing treaties and, lastly, a new position and a new role for the European Union on the world stage.
At Ghent, we also - and lastly, because this was the final topic we dealt with - gave an update on the progress made in the negotiations with the candidate countries.
I met the new Polish prime minister yesterday and urged him to step up efforts so that Poland can once again take up its rightful place in the negotiations, because, following the events of 11 September, enlargement is needed now more than ever before.
Madam President, I am organising a debate on this subject at the University of Ghent on 30 October 2001.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the next European Council will meet in exactly 50 days.
The Commission will follow the consolidation of the reconciliation process in Northern Ireland closely, not least through our Peace programme.
Following the attacks on 11 September against the United States - our longstanding allies - the European Union has publicly committed itself to doing all it can to help bring the perpetrators, organisers and sponsors of these acts to justice, and to holding accountable those hiding, supporting or harbouring them.
We thus pledged our complete solidarity with the government and people of the United States.
Mr Patten, the Belgian foreign minister, Mr Michel, and Mr Solana went first to Washington and then on to Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Syria to help build a global alliance against terrorism.
On the basis of emergency legislation agreed at Community level, the European Union froze over EUR 100 million of assets of people suspected of terrorism.
You only have to compare, for example, the disparate attitudes of our Member States to the Gulf War, a decade ago, with our recent united stance on the situation in the FYROM and our present coherent response to terrorism.
However, we are still a very long way from achieving the genuinely common foreign and security policy we so badly need.
I am therefore very glad that, in the Union' s declaration of 14 September, we publicly committed ourselves to developing our common foreign and security policy and to ensuring that the Union really can speak out clearly and with one voice.
My answer is 'No' although we need to make a certain distinction here.
This is not at all surprising, since the Community method has, for the last fifty years, ensured that Europe can act effectively, rapidly and visibly in all the fields in which this is possible.
It is in areas where Europe is less integrated, where the Community method is virtually or wholly absent, that the European Union seriously lacks effectiveness.
A common policy ensures that the different national policies are co-ordinated within a Community framework according to the Community method so that they serve the interests of the Union as a whole.
In my view, individual action taken by only a few countries is in the interests neither of the Union as a whole nor of its individual Member States, be they large or small.
The Commission is ready to play its full part in this necessary process.
The Euro-Mediterranean region must aim at genuine economic integration and at setting up institutional mechanisms for taking common decisions.
I also believe we should be ready to respond to the renewed signs of interest in joint action on shared goals - such as the fight against AIDS - coming from countries like Libya.
Once again, Europe is in an excellent position to respond to these political signals and to help such countries join our alliance.
This time of change is also the right time to boost these policies.
We Europeans must be proud of the policies we have been pursuing as we prepare for enlargement, for they are the only democratic globalisation policies thus far developed in the world, and I would stress that: the European Union project is the only democratic globalisation process in existence.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Extraordinary European Council Meeting of 21 September asked the Commission to analyse the economic impact of the terrorist attacks.
We did so immediately, and the Commission presented its report to the Ghent European Council.
The European economy was clearly slowing down even before 11 September.
The immediate consequence of the terrorist attacks was a further loss of consumer confidence and a widespread sense of uncertainty.
However, there are several positive factors to bear in mind, factors that enable us to face the current shock much more calmly than in similar circumstances in the past.
Firstly, the fundamental aspects of our economy.
The events of recent weeks should make us even more proud of the quantum leap forward that the euro has allowed us to take.
The reforms are far from complete, but the present crisis should strengthen our political resolve to see them through.
I therefore call upon this House and the Council to stop hesitating and to speed up the approval of all the decisions taken at and after Lisbon to make the European economy more efficient.
However, the problem of coordinating our economic policies arises at this stage in all its severity, and it arises because, in this sector too, we continue to have difficulty in applying the Community method.
If the situation changes we must be ready to act using the instruments available to us.
We must ensure that lasting hope comes out of the evil of 11 September.
If Europe is to fully live up to its pledge of solidarity - solidarity with the United States but also the safeguarding of global solidarity - the Member States of the European Union must genuinely act as one Community.
I ask you also, in your capacity as Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium, to resolve the issue of the security of the European institutions, including the European Parliament in Brussels, with a solution that will be satisfactory both in principle and in practice.
Our group supports it unreservedly.
Afghanistan has been suffering for twenty years.
It is for that reason that we have proposed the Euro-Mediterranean Meeting in Brussels on 8 November.
It is crucial that five persons should be represented in it: the chairman/chairwoman and the representatives of the four institutions involved.
I hope that the crisis in which the world currently finds itself will bring the European institutions together and lead them to common action for Europe. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, following the European Council in Ghent, my group feels both hope and concern.
Hope, because in Northern Ireland arms are being entombed in concrete, and concern, because we are facing a long fight against global terrorism, which we must pursue with conviction, perseverance and courage.
We must deal with the response measures authorised by the United Nations, but we must also make a significant effort in the humanitarian field and in terms of reconstruction and stabilisation, both in Afghanistan and in many other parts of the world.
The European Union can play an important role in this context.
The prior meeting of certain Member States was inappropriate.
With regard to the relationship between the European Council and the specific Councils, I would point out that the European Parliament is making an effort to speed up the negotiation of the measures you have proposed, but this is not being treated in a corresponding fashion by the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
My political family is also trying to re-establish links and the new tour of the Middle East which you have announced is very important, with an active approach by the Union to the resolution of this absolutely key conflict.
As for the future of Europe, I would like to point out that the Convention is not a war of opposing positions, but must be a joint effort.
On behalf of my group, I can tell you that we have two concerns: one, that there should be balanced representation between European parliamentarians and those of the Member States, both in the Convention and in the Presidency; secondly, that the Convention should make a difference and not just be a talking shop or a debating club, and should make coherent proposals.
Lastly, the proposals should lead to a decision by the Intergovernmental Conference before the 2004 elections in order to honour our commitments in the field of enlargement.
And in relation to enlargement, I must say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - and here there have also been some interpretation problems - that the final exam will be taken at the end of 2002.
I am pleased that you were in Poland yesterday.
Poland was a much bigger problem before, because it did not have a solvent government and I believe that, although there always has to be a degree of political competition, we must support Poland, which now has a strong government with a clear desire to take part in the future of Europe.
Madam President, I should like to begin - as other colleagues have done today - with a reference to the milestone event in Northern Ireland.
Particularly since 11 September it has been increasingly inevitable that such an act should take place.
I add my voice to those who have asked all the institutions today, in the clearest terms, to welcome what has happened on behalf of the European Union.
That is an important act of solidarity, and an important point of departure.
If I do not dwell on this, it is simply because there are one or two questions I should like to raise with you, Mr President-in-Office.
In particular, we have had rather a long debate about the potential humanitarian crisis.
I should like to turn to the question of the role of the Council of Ministers in following up on the action plan to fight terrorism.
In particular, I note the strategic leadership which you offered through the Council at the extraordinary meeting on 21 September.
There you made a clear plea to the institutions to seize that moment and act.
I can tell you in this Parliament that within 24 hours of receiving that, and with the proviso that we should review it in the lifetime of this Parliament, we too seized the moment.
You gave it, the Commission followed; this House followed.
The Prime Minister has explained to us that the candidate states will participate.
It is important that Turkey should be included, based on the principles clarified at Helsinki.
I know it is not a negotiating state, but Helsinki established a clear principle of equality of treatment for candidate states.
Finally, I am glad to see that the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office, today at least, are sharing a platform in the European Parliament.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prodi, we know that when all European Councils draw to a close, they either give us grounds for satisfaction or grounds for disappointment.
I shall restrict my comments to the chapter on the follow-up to the 11 September attacks and the fight against terrorism and I would like to give my views on this on behalf of my group.
We now know that the civilian population is paying a high price for the war, and the Council, in declaring its staunchest support for the military operations, is turning a blind eye to this situation.
With regard to the commitment to fight against terrorism and to protect the population against these acts of terrorism, it goes without saying that the commitment made by the Council is to be welcomed, but an unambiguous definition of terrorism is clearly needed as far as legislative initiatives are concerned in order to avoid any confusion and the criminalisation of any anti-establishment behaviour or activities, which are, however, political in nature and legitimate nonetheless.
Our group has a number of concerns regarding the declaration in which the European Union states that it is willing to undertake reciprocal initiatives with the United States, particularly to facilitate judicial assistance and extradition.
Regarding extradition, we are aware that the death penalty is still in force in the United States and therefore this poses a huge problem for the European Union.
To sum up, Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prodi, I think that it is true to say that we are particularly disappointed by the outcome of this Summit.
I do not wish to have to relive this disappointment at the Laeken Summit, and I am pleased to note that Mr Verhofstadt is determined to give the European Union a new role and to open up genuine dialogue on a topic that has been slightly overworked in recent weeks, in other words, globalisation.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Prodi, the four weeks that passed between the Extraordinary European Council of 21 September and the Ghent Summit of 19 October were filled with events of strategic importance.
In the weeks before the tragic events of 11 September, the European Union had, in fact, begun to play a role on the international stage, in the Middle East, in Macedonia, at the Durban conference on racism, and the EU knew how to make a mark on events.
I believe that this should now be our overriding ambition.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, President Prodi, firstly, I would like to express my very sincere thanks for the comments that have been made by colleagues here this morning and by you, Madam President and President Prodi on the good news from Ireland on the decommissioning of arms.
I very much want to put on record once again the important part Parliament and the Commission played in helping the peace process at a time when this help was very much needed.
I very much welcome the fact that the European Union leaders unequivocally stated their full support for the action that has been taken in the fight against terrorism in all its aspects and reaffirmed their solidarity with the American government.
They have agreed that the fight against terrorism must continue within a United Nations framework.
Present and future actions in the fight against international terrorism should and must emanate from the membership of the United Nations.
We are all concerned that civilian populations must be shielded from the attacks which are taking place in Afghanistan at this time and, in a war situation, there is nothing more sickening than one hearing commentators refer to civilian deaths as 'collateral damage'.
I believe that the international community, including the European Union and the United Nations, must estimate the humanitarian needs of the Afghan people over the next few months and ensure that all the necessary humanitarian aid is delivered.
We must also, remember that the war against terrorism is being fought on many different fronts.
Within the Union, there must be formal adoption of the EU directive on money laundering.
Finally, we live in challenging and uncertain times and the political situation in the Middle East is very volatile.
The preliminary meeting between Great Britain, France and Germany suggests a model that is as far from the federalists' vision, or illusion, of a democratic federal State as it is from the Eurosceptics' more realistic desire for a Europe of democracies.
Cooperation between the big three is engaged in on an intergovernmental basis, behind closed doors and without democratic control.
For the small countries, intergovernmental cooperation between the big countries may come across as supranational dictates.
The summits are also conducted behind closed doors and without democratic control.
European integration is now modelled on the way in which private holding companies operate.
Summits must be opened up to elected representatives so that representatives of the national parliaments are able to exercise democratic control by being present there.
In our opinion, unity between the Fifteen is valuable when it is achieved through public - and therefore accountable, democratic - debate.
That is undoubtedly linked to the changes since 11 September, but also to the sound preparation, the sensible approach by the police and certainly also to the open dialogue that has led to a different atmosphere.
Another positive development is the fact that the Union has taken a unanimous and firm stand in the fight against terrorism, has emphatically confirmed its solidarity with the US, but at the same time, has highlighted its own political role.
Ghent has also painfully accentuated the fact that Nice' s two areas of tension, namely that between the large and small countries, and that between the intergovernmental and community approach, is still heavily mortgaging the European Union' s future.
Let us hope that 11 September and the need to reform the institutions prior to enlargement will encourage Member State governments to look beyond their own national policies and return to the roots of the European Union, namely to promote peace and security in Europe and in the world by intense cooperation between the Fifteen, rather than just three, Member States.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to congratulate the Belgian Presidency, as I think that the excellent way in which the Ghent European Council fulfilled its duties and its responsibilities is a positive and hopeful sign that our institutions are working well.
I believe that this European Council was worthwhile, and was acting perfectly within its powers, in other words, in the role of providing guidance.
I would like to make three points in relation to this.
Thank you, Mr President, for giving these conclusions.
We must not, however, forget our responsibilities, the contribution we can make, for example, to a subject as important as that of cancelling the debts of developing countries.
Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the delicate issue of cheques.
At a time when we are changing over to the euro, we know that these cheques are used primarily by vulnerable sectors of society.
Mr President, when the two planes crashed into the World Trade Center they demolished more than the twin towers.
We also saw the destruction of the European Union's three pillars contrived at the Treaty of Maastricht and our response today requires a fully integrated approach involving trade, finance and security.
The Ghent European Council showed that the Union enjoys both the capacity, and the will, to provide an increased sense of European security, solid in support of American self-defence, and sharing in the campaign to combat terrorism.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Prodi, I have noted with satisfaction that preparations in Ghent for the Laeken Summit also included a debate on the complex subject of 'The Future of Europe' .
Fourthly, there must be complete transparency in the Convention's work, both as regards the conduct of its debates and discussions and also public access to its documentation, which must be guaranteed by all means available.
The summit' s reference to resolution 1368 is absurd.
In my view, this unjustified accusation - which I naturally refute - illustrates the reservations and the obstacles we can encounter in our fight against terrorism.
The coalition against terrorism will not function properly if the central player, the United States, is surrounded by only fifteen satellites.
Unfortunately, the European Union has in certain ways still not outgrown the satellite stage.
I would therefore like to warmly congratulate the Council with its statement that our policy to the outside world, also in the framework of globalisation, must be ensconced in ethical, social and ecological standards and must take account of Third World interests.
For we as the world community, in the light of 11 September, can no longer afford to be dragged down in this continual downward spiral.
We have resources in that region.
That is my first plea.
Afghanistan' s key problem is that we will not reach a solution with the Northern Alliance, nor with anyone else.
Such a meeting is, of course, never pleasant for a presidency, but it proves at the same time how desperately we need a European framework within which external security, conflict prevention, our diplomacy, but also our internal security, legal and police cooperation can be regulated.
That is important for small Member States such as ours.
However, it is apparently difficult for everyone to understand that if one considers the Union after 11 September, it is, in fact, only small EU Member States that have taken any individual action.
You did not get sidetracked in Ghent.
Mr President, we are well aware that the reasons why the three Member States held a meeting before the Ghent European Council were not technical.
And even if you cannot say it here and now, you also know full well that exactly the same disputes between those who are in favour of a political union and those who are against it, are raging over the Convention.
The lessons learnt at Nice are likely to be of no value since the Council is being forced to choose from limited options without being able to come to an agreement on a strong proposal, on who will be part of the leadership, which makes a mockery of the parliamentary dimension and strengthens the intergovernmental dimension, or on a long period between the end of the Convention and the IGC.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Prodi, the decision of the Council at Ghent to give immediate humanitarian aid totalling EUR 320 million is unusually welcome.
The same applies to European solidarity in the campaign against international terrorism.
The world is still in shock from the attacks on New York and Washington.
What strikes me, secondly, is that the future reconstruction of Afghanistan presupposes, importantly, knowledge of the events in that country over the past twenty-five years.
We could perhaps thereby take the first step towards a peaceful solution and a forward-looking outlook for Afghanistan.
The European Union can only exist as it does now in so far as competencies reside in the supranational institutions and the smaller countries do not feel that they are controlled by the larger ones.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the Ghent Council are without a doubt positive and encouraging, not least - although not exclusively - in terms of the fight against terrorism.
Mr President, there are two messages coming from this House today.
Firstly, the rather modest compromise resolution drafted by an all-party group which, if I were a member of the forces serving currently in Afghanistan - and I think particularly of the British forces - would give me very scant comfort.
Of course this House must have compromise resolutions and must, so far as possible, be united.
Today, our resolution does not reflect the sort of leadership which is available for the people of Afghanistan through their exiled king.
Our resolution does not reflect the fact that in Peshawar today there is an enormous meeting taking place of those seeking - including the moderate Taliban - the restoration of democracy in that country.
Mr President, I would firstly like to welcome the information from the President-in-Office of the Council on the progress made in relation to measures for combating terrorism and the arrest warrant.
Mr President, justice is a key word on the European and international stages following 11 September.
The creation of a European area of justice is the best contribution the Union could offer at this time.
We would also be grateful for more precise information on the debates in the Justice and Home Affairs Council and for broader involvement by Parliament.
In this respect, given the speeding up of certain procedures, I wonder, Mr President, if this is not the moment to move cooperation in the criminal field to the first pillar.
I am slightly more sceptical about what has been said about progress on immigration and asylum in the Union.
It seems to me that the situation of the borders of Afghanistan and support for the refugees and the neighbouring countries, issues which the European Union has to deal with, provide us with a perfect opportunity to test this directive, to test the solidarity between the Member States in the European Refugee Fund and to implement what is laid down in it.
We will never win the war against terrorism if we do not first resolve the Middle East question.
We are also concerned - as President Prodi himself said - by the economic crisis.
I regret to say that the United States has had to invest USD 150 billion to revitalise the economy.
We, the European Parliament, will, no doubt, also take this step in the next plenary session.
I welcome the Commission's report to the Council on the appraisal of the economic consequences of the terrible events of 11 September.
In this respect, the action plan against terrorism, which the Belgian Presidency and the Commission are promoting vigorously, includes measures which we had argued for before 11 September.
In fact we must remember that the proposals in this area presented by the Commission are not the result of improvisation, but they conform to a mandate received at the European Council in Tampere, whose implementation had suffered considerable delay, which was condemned by the European Parliament on several occasions.
We are still awaiting the final approval of the Regulation on the freezing of assets, incorporating, it is true, as the European Parliament argued for, a list of European terrorist organisations, taking into account the financial operative support and propaganda framework of the terrorists.
I therefore believe that we must welcome the Council' s commitment to approve a package of measures at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 6 and 7 December.
I should like to make three observations.
The United Kingdom, Germany and France have lent their full support to the United States.
The EU countries that are not NATO members lend political support via diplomatic channels.
These are three different kinds of support without any clear interrelation for the citizen.
I would call for more coordination in Europe' s support for the actions against terrorism in the coming months, so that the image of division will soon be one of the past.
In fact, those proposals had already partly been tabled.
Let the convention determine its own working method and submit its own proposals.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Prodi, the informal summit in Ghent has shown two positive aspects, namely fundamental agreement on a Convention to prepare a constitutional treaty and the final technical adjustments to the euro.
A common currency, a common foreign policy and a common defence policy would give the EU that credibility in the eyes of its citizens and create that identification with it, whose absence we often regret.
The process of enlargement must be seen from this point of view, as must the post-Nice order, involving a Convention which should not be content to fritter away its time but, as the European Parliament has recommended, should work out a coherent basis for a decision on a constitutional treaty.
After 11 September, the political geography of the world has changed radically.
This is what we expect from Laeken and from an Intergovernmental Conference which needs to reform the Union before the European elections.
I think that Mr Romano Prodi has already entered into more detail on this and has, actually, made very valid points.
In today' s international crisis, we have, for the first time, displayed a united front on two occasions, on 21 September and last Friday in Ghent, in a matter which is, actually, very complex.
Secondly, what is the stance now after 7 October?
After all, things changed on 7 October, since the reaction from the United States and the international coalition.
Mr Romano Prodi reminded us that each time there was an international conflict, there was not one stance, but fifteen stances within the Council.
This very specific task was given to the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers and they must finalise the practical details before 6 and 7 December 2001.
Mr Poettering, I have already said - not today, not on 19 October but on 21 September - on behalf of the European Council, that the specialised ministers were given the task of finalising the details.
It is easy to proclaim that a European mandate must be obtained, also for extradition.
The most important point had not yet been reached, namely an agreement on the principle of the abolition of dual criminality, not only for terrorist acts but also for other serious crimes.
Finally, I also should like to briefly comment on the third point, namely the Union' s future.
I believe that we are all agreed that 11 September has shown that a more integrated, more progressive Union is needed, a Union with greater ability to act, which has better instruments at its disposal, and which - certainly as far as the foreign and defence policy is concerned - has greater powers.
The convention is a fact.
If consensus is reached, then we have a consensus text.
I would like to say that the immediate appropriation has been decided of EUR 315 million, but the problem is not now, at this time, I regret to say, financial, but the enormous practical difficulties of getting the aid to the people concerned.
Then, Prime Minister Verhofstadt spoke about the decisions adopted in the field of justice and the fight against financial crime.
The Commission has already addressed this point in its White Paper and we and Parliament expect to debate it with the Council.
However, this is an area in which there has been a vast difference between the general decisions taken and the implementation of the decisions in subsequent individual Councils, with regard to liberalisation and market reform, speeding up innovation, and projects ranging from the creation of the single air space to the establishing of the Community patent, areas in which we are still extremely behind schedule.
Our economy will only become dynamic if we rectify these shortcomings.
Lastly - and, in this respect, more great progress has been made - we have undertaken to support the introduction of the euro with the indispensable backup measures such as the single market in cross-border bank transfers.
We have committed ourselves to this and it is an absolutely crucial point.
We are making the Convention as transparent as possible but also giving it as much democratic authority as possible, and we therefore expect it to produce major, incisive results.
The air of democracy is nourished by the oxygen of transparency and accountability, and the Commission therefore fully supports the commencement of the Convention' s work so that dialogue will, at last, be opened between the institutions and between the institutions and the European citizens. (Applause) Thank you, President Prodi.
As you heard, during the last part of your speech there was a buzz of voices which made it difficult for all the Members who were listening attentively to your speech to hear properly.
As you and my fellow Members can see, all those who were not paying attention to your speech are continuing to chat in the corridors and will only sit down when the next President opens voting time.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the confusion in the House before voting time is in danger of becoming a moral issue.
VOTE The Commission can accept in part or in spirit Amendments Nos 1, 5, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16.
The Commission rejects Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12 and 17.
The example of the use that has been made of the principle of equal treatment for men and women to impose night working on women in the industrial sector is enough to arouse suspicion.
I say this with pleasure in order to stress my personal hope - in addition to what is, I believe, the hope of all of us - that the regions in Europe will gain increasingly in political and decision-making importance and that they will be allowed to participate more fully in the production of the European directives and regulations which concern them. . (EL) The debate on territorial units for statistics (NUTS) is not a technical debate about statistics because regional statistics and the classification of regions on the basis of NUTS provide a constant line of reference for analysing social and economic developments in the regions and determining which areas are eligible for structural support.
Lastly, of this 25%, only 16.4% related to Objective 2.
In other words, because a small administrative division was used (NUTS ÉÉÉ), the rich countries received considerable support, thereby blatantly distorting regional policy in practice.
Some countries benefit even more because the NUTS III type administrative divisions are very small compared with other countries.
Weiler report (A5-0360/2001) . (PT) The study contained in the 2001 Joint Employment Report, produced on the basis of national reports, demonstrates how little attention most Member States pay to employment guidelines.
In fact, only seven have paid any attention to the general objectives laid down at the Lisbon Council and reaffirmed at the Stockholm Council, and only three have referred to the specific objectives on the rate of employment for women.
The Weiler report is not sufficiently critical of the current employment situation in the European Union, although it does acknowledge some negative aspects of practices in these areas of employment, specifically where it focuses on the need to establish national targets and on meeting them.
It also has a lot of sympathy for the amendments submitted by Mr Bushill-Matthews but feels that the Weiler report is not the appropriate report for such amendments. . (EL) Without doubt the economic crisis is worsening, having already been exacerbated by the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.
Overall employment has basically bottomed out and unemployment is staying put, even if it is not increasing as, for example, in my country.
At the same time, more mass redundancies are on the cards in important sectors of the economy, such as transport, tourism etc.
Employment policies have become an exercise in apportioning unemployment, even more so in the guidelines for 2002.
The European Parliament report supports the guidelines, which revert to the familiar subjects of structural reform and more flexible employment contracts, the purpose of which is to create a huge army of employable people with no rights or claims, whose productivity and competitiveness are tailored to the speculative demands of big business and its interests.
The policy which the ÅU persists in applying, despite an average rate of growth of 3.3% in 2000, does not appear to be reducing the unemployment or the poverty which is the bane of the lives of 22% of the population of the ÅU.
Whilst the report recognises that full employment can be achieved through further structural reforms of the labour market, it also calls for increased investment in training, especially for job seekers.
The quantitative, as well as qualitative, returns that the EU would reap as a result of its commitment to training are unquestionable.
Finally, the recommendation that both sides of industry should agree on changes in working practices could pave the way for enhanced industrial relations and create a situation whereby the specialist knowledge of each party is fully utilised.
It is therefore right that the European Union should concern itself with all seas, particularly those which bathe the shores of some of our States, and that it should provide financial aid, not least, as in this case, to States beyond its borders such as Russia, for environmental projects to make these seas cleaner, more navigable and more beautiful.
Virrankoski report (A5-0345/2001) Mr Dell' Alba, in a minute you will see that not all Mr Fatuzzo' s speeches are poetic.
The first casing - erected shortly after the disaster in 1986 - still conceals a dangerous seat of fire, and nuclear energy remains a source of future risks.
Mr President, it is a true honour for me to be able to present to you this report on Council reform in the presence of Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, representing the Council and Mr Barnier, representing the Commission.
The Council has already lost much of its effectiveness.
In my report, you will find a long list of dysfunctions.
The Council itself had carried out some preparatory work three or four years ago and I used this and other work as a basis.
Since then, however, nothing has been done, although some other preparatory work was carried out by former - and very key - figures on the international stage, and I shall mention, in particular, the Notre Europe working group led by Jacques Delors.
The rise in power of the European Council, combined with the weakness of the General Affairs Council, has re-established the intergovernmental method of preparing decisions.
Mini-summit meetings, like the one held at Ghent, have brought back the tendency to place control in the hands of a chosen few, a dream that some have never given up on since the Fouchet plan of the 1960s.
In order to correct this digression, I recommend nothing more and nothing less than going back to the Treaty.
The European Council should restrict itself to giving general guidelines on European policy, as laid down in the Treaty.
The proposal for a resolution suggests a number of practical solutions, which can all be implemented immediately without having to amend the Treaty.
Before I finish, I would like to draw the attention of Members to the proposals on improving collaboration with the European Parliament.
If the Council did not meet behind closed doors when carrying out its duties as co-legislator, citizens might also perceive it as a second legislative chamber, which is, in fact, a task that the Council already fulfils today.
Mr President, Mr Poos, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself in an awkward position here, since I have to take the floor as President of an institution which, according to Mr Poos, is the most badly organised of all those in the European Union.
The Helsinki European Council of June 1999 has already acknowledged that substantial changes in the Council' s working methods are necessary, and pointed out that these changes must be gradually introduced from now on so that by the time of enlargement, the Council can smoothly accommodate a larger membership.
The role of COREPER was clarified in the Council' s internal rules of procedure.
Public debates are now organised on new and important legislative proposals, and on the programme of the General Affairs Council and the ECOFIN Council.
The first assessment regarding the implementation of the Helsinki recommendations was presented by the Council' s Secretary-General at the Gothenburg European Council in June 2001.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, certain measures were, for example, not completely implemented.
The European Council of Gothenburg gave explicit recognition to this and pointed out, as the Secretary-General underlines in his report, that other reforms for the Council' s structures and working methods are needed.
In the light of this, the Secretary-General was requested to formulate specific proposals for measures, preferably during the European Council of Laeken, which must guarantee the effective operation of the Council following enlargement, by means of better preparation for council meetings, clear coordination between the different council formations and more efficient working methods, so as to enable the Council to take the necessary decisions by June 2002.
This list is drawn up so as to allow the General Affairs Council to carry out fully its horizontal coordination role pertaining to all activities of the different formations of the Council.
Additionally, recent events in the United States have clearly illustrated that overall coordination of the Union' s activities in the fight against terrorism is necessary.
The General Affairs Council of 17 October looked into a report of the presidency on the activities of the different formations of the Council in this field.
During its next sitting on 29 October, the General Affairs Council will once again pour over this updated roadmap.
This initiative clearly illustrates the capacity of the General Affairs Council, if necessary, to guarantee general coordination of the Council' s policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, I would also like to say that, with regard to the dysfunctions in the Council, the Commission widely supports the analysis presented in this excellent report.
Personally, I am not surprised by the quality of this analysis, given the experience and expertise that Mr Poos has gained over many long years and which he is now putting to use at the European Parliament.
I would like to say that, having begun by voicing our overall appreciation of the report, the Commission also supports the reforms that you put forward for the Council.
Transforming the Council into a structured and efficient body is in the interests of the whole European Union.
Your report takes up many of the suggestions and comments that we at the Commission have expressed in the past, and particularly in our recently published White Paper on European Governance.
These options for reform are all the more interesting since they can be made - as you have said - without altering the current Treaty.
With reference to the Council, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would obviously like to say that, from my point of view, each of our institutions is autonomous and has primary responsibility for its own reforms.
Admittedly, within the framework of the debate on the future of the European Union, we must carry out an in-depth examination of the institutional set-up, the role of each institution and the amendments that need to be made to the Treaty so that our Union has a genuine institutional framework that is both more democratic and more effective.
That is why I think, Mr Poos, that your report is an extremely important element, which will spark off the wide-ranging debate about to open on the institutional framework of the EU, its effectiveness and its democratic legitimacy.
Nonetheless, the debate on the most fundamental reforms in the run-up to 2004 cannot be an excuse for refusing to immediately adopt the reforms that the Council can already implement in the existing Treaty.
I believe that the Council will have to do this one day, as will the European Parliament, and the Commission will do all it can to support these two institutions in this undertaking.
In this respect, I would like to reiterate that the Gothenburg European Council has already asked the Secretary-General of the Council to submit detailed proposals on this issue for the meeting at Laeken.
Obviously, this must be shown by the Member States governments as well as by the institutions themselves.
Consequently it is very clear - and the Commission supports this - that the Council must be organised differently so that it operates within the framework of one or another of these three functions.
Therefore, the legislative Council should basically work in complete transparency, with open debates and public votes.
Admittedly, the number of sectoral Councils may be too high, but it is primarily the lack of coordination between these sectoral Councils, which means that, unlike the European Parliament, in which the Assembly takes the final decision, the Council arm of the legislator has much more difficulty in coordinating its various decisions.
This situation calls for particular consideration of how determined we are - as you mentioned in the report - to encourage consensus between Parliament and the Council from the first-reading stage within the codecision procedure.
You are also quite right, Mr Poos, when you point out in the report that the crux of the debate is, essentially, how the General Affairs Council functions.
It is extremely difficult, in just one monthly meeting, to take decisions on all the issues relating to EU external policy, including those on security policy, on maintaining the single institutional framework of the European Union and all the horizontal and institutional issues, such as, for example, the recent regulation on access to documents or the coordination of the EU response to the tragic events of 11 September, as well as coordinating sectoral policies.
The Commission is fairly well placed to judge the degree of variation in the subjects dealt with by the General Affairs Council, as there are times when we require several Commissioners to represent us at the same session.
We therefore support your view, Mr Poos: the various formations in the Council need a central body responsible for coordination and, at the moment, it is very difficult for the General Affairs Council to do this.
This would, in any case, enable the European Council to be freed from arbitration and from policy coordination, so that it can fully devote itself to its real job of providing political impetus and defining guidelines for the European Union.
However, creating this sort of Council raises a whole raft of political, even constitutional, issues, as you yourself admit, in some Member States, particularly in those that have a coalition government.
The Commission would like to say that it is also in its interests to work with an efficient Council and that the two messages contained in this own-initiative report, in other words, that we must guarantee coherent action as well as a certain level of political representation in the Council' s decision-making, have certainly been heard, Mr Poos.
Mr President, Mrs Neyts, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, our group thanks the rapporteur, Mr Poos, for his report.
Let us call it a Council of European Ministers, meeting weekly, or more often if necessary, in Brussels or, of course, in the national capitals, and always available within their governments.
The result was the Treaty of Maastricht, which gave us codecision.
Codecision has allowed us to develop a shared culture in which the Council, for the first time, has been opening up to Parliament.
There is a very important step proposed by the Poos report, which is that the Council, in legislative session, should act publicly.
The reforms proposed by the Poos report are necessary and achievable, and we support them.
Regrettably, the General Affairs Council has very much receded into the background in terms of its effectiveness.
The work of the Council must be more consistent, and greater coordination is needed in the administration of the Council.
Also, Ministers who attend the General Affairs Council meetings must have all the powers required to carry out their tasks.
The Belgian Presidency-in-Office shakes her head in disbelief.
We respect, and must respect, the three institutions and the role that they have to play.
Mr President, who knows the Ministers Mr Van Dale, Mr Conde de Saro and Mr Christoffersen?
I therefore think that the vote on this report is a great moment for Parliament.
Therefore, if this text can be an element that the Belgian Presidency, in the run-up to the Laeken Summit and the Laeken Declaration, may largely take into consideration by saying 'ladies and gentlemen, this is the way forward, this is the Community method and this is how things should be run, so that at least we are trying to put our house in order' , then this text will be worthwhile, and I hope it will receive Parliament' s unanimous approval tomorrow.
In any case, the radical Members will support it unreservedly.
For when I consider that in future, when there are 27 members at a meeting of the European Council, it will take an hour and a half simply to deal with the precedence of delegations and then that the statements made by every delegation will make even lunch difficult - and of course we cannot go without lunch - then it clearly does not go without saying that we will be able to work effectively.
Meeting up constitutes Item A, we do a bit of foreign policy, then all 27 of us meet the President of Kazakhstan, then move on to Item B, which is legislation, and all this with seamless transitions from one item to the next, so that half the participants are always in a press conference.
Mr President, the Poos report is audacious, cautious and realistic.
Audacious because it immediately proposes a set of amendments to improve the workings of the Council.
The report' s proposals even consider the idea that improving the institutional workings of the Union will require major adjustments to the balance of established power which, without endangering the workings of these bodies, guarantee the full participation of all Member States.
The broad objectives for the European Union in economic, social and security terms and for its external representation will only be achieved in the short term if Europe as a whole, through its various public opinions, and the fifteen Member States, through their representatives in the various bodies, attach priority and urgency to improving political cohesion on the basis of fully egalitarian participation.
For this reason, the report warrants our support and our admiration.
I congratulate the rapporteur on his efforts although I cannot share his optimism.
European policies are not external policies but internal policies of the Member States and the important decisions must not be reserved for the Foreign Affairs Ministers.
The institutional triangle is still essential to the good functioning of the Union, provided that each of its elements continues to adapt to the new requirements.
In the case of the Council, we are facing a quagmire whose deficiencies can only be remedied: a) by recognising the decisive role of the European Council; b) by giving the General Affairs Council the task of effectively preparing its decisions so that they are not relegated to national bureaucracies; and c) by organising all the specialised Councils into an efficiently-structured system.
Effective political action cannot change its priorities every six months.
The General Affairs Council should meet more frequently, but with the ministers present, not just in Brussels but, if possible, at the meetings too.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, in turn, should like to congratulate Jacques Poos on the excellent report which he has presented to the House and to thank him for the highly democratic manner in which he dealt with the proposals and observations of the other members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, observations intended to improve the report.
The second point concerns collaboration between the Council and the European Parliament.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council functions poorly, which is also bad news for all the other EU institutions.
Mr Poos has produced useful and valuable suggestions as to how such a reform might now be possible without the need for a new European Treaty.
The problem is the deficient coordination within the Council and also within the governments of the Member States.
First of all, the Council must confine itself to its original brief, namely to express the view of the Member State governments, under the supervision of the national parliaments and the European Parliament.
It is entirely unacceptable in a democracy for laws to be made behind closed and bolted doors on behalf of 380 million people and without there being any public scrutiny.
Thank you very much, Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck.
The debate is closed.
Commissioner, Mr President, honourable MEPs, in two weeks' time, the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation will get underway in Doha, Qatar.
In this connection, the conclusions reached by the General Affairs Council on 26 October 1999 will remain a point of reference.
An agreement on the start of a new round will thus give the world economy a powerful and positive signal.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a new round of trade negotiations is also extremely important for the developing countries.
The round must enable us to improve the integration of developing countries, and especially the least developed countries, into the multilateral trade system, particularly by providing better market access, through measures that facilitate the implementation of agreements that have already been reached, and also through measures that seek to make more operational the special and differential treatment given to these countries.
Non-trade issues, further progress in terms of transparency of the World Trade Organisation mechanism, the preservation of the European model of government services and the special statute of those services are some of the interests which the European Union protects.
Together with the developing countries, a serious effort has been made over the past three years on the issue surrounding implementation.
The European Commission action plan in this area was approved by the General Affairs Council last May.
The European Union is working hard so that a clear statement on access to medicines and on the TRIPS agreement can be adopted at the Fourth Ministerial Conference at Doha.
Two documents, which were tabled on 26 September by Stuart Harbison, the Chairman of the WTO General Council.
Commissioner Pascal Lamy will no doubt comment on this issue in his speech, and the Commission will continue to strive to ensure that the Ministerial Declaration responds to the European Union' s concerns and interests.
We are taking an active part in the negotiations on the agenda of the new round with an open and flexible approach, and we are also particularly concerned about assisting developing countries whilst protecting the legitimate aims and objectives of the European Union.
While the various components that will feature in the new round and the implementation-related issues form a whole, the final assessment by the Union will be based on both the overall balance and on the balance within the various subjects that will be discussed. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, by way of conclusion, I should like to say that the purport of the forthcoming Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation is to further adjust the regulating effect of world trade, and that this conference offers us a chance to give the world economy a considerable boost by commencing a new trade round.
As you know, we fought together, at the previous Intergovernmental Conference - at which the Treaty of Nice, as we call it, was draw up - in order to enhance Parliament' s competences in the area of trade policy.
As you also know, the Member States did not adopt our proposals.
In these circumstances, the Commission is doing everything in its power, within the framework imposed on us by the Treaty, to inform the European Parliament and to involve it in the Union' s trade policy.
Some may be surprised that the tragic events of 11 September have changed neither course nor our schedule.
Even before 11 September, we believed that an approach based on the principle of well-ordered liberalisation was required.
This has become even more necessary since the terrorist attacks took place.
The process of opening up markets, regulating trade, integrating developing countries and the concern to ensure environmental and social sustainability - we need these more now than ever before.
These are issues of stability and security, both in relations between countries and between generations.
Dialogue, negotiation and peaceful resolution to commercial conflicts have made international trade a laboratory for international governance, where each partner participates in decision-making.
Of course, the WTO is only one of the pillars making up a multilateral system, which must meet the challenges of globalisation.
A round of World Trade Organisation negotiations is therefore necessary, of course, but it is in no way sufficient.
We must also strengthen the other institutions of governance, the environment, social development, development funding and policy support agencies.
Let us now consider the prospects for the Ministerial Conference, which will take place in two weeks' time.
The belief that the multilateral system must now, more than ever, be an essential part of growth and prosperity is widely shared.
And I think we must also point out that the open, constructive spirit and the efforts made by many partners - such as ourselves, the United States, and an increasing number of developing countries - have already helped to partly reconcile the differing views that prevented Seattle from being a success.
This came across very clearly at the last informal select meeting of WTO trade ministers, which was held in Singapore on 13 and 14 October and which I attended.
I think that we have now reached a point where we can envisage an ambitious, balanced round that meets the primary objectives of the European Union.
Of course, we have not yet achieved this goal.
We are now entering the final and crucial stage, in the run-up to Doha.
As you know, a draft Ministerial Declaration, which will constitute the framework of negotiations for the new round, was published on 26 September 2001.
The first difficulty concerns trade and the environment, areas that give us particular cause for concern due to the lack of ambitious proposals.
Progress is being made in some areas, but we must admit that most of our partners in developing countries are still hesitant, to say the least, about the idea of accepting negotiations on this subject.
I also made it clear to my colleagues, in Singapore, that a framework on this issue was not only a political necessity for the European Union, but should also be of interest to all the members of the World Trade Organisation and of the multilateral system as a whole.
I think that the message concerning the political importance that this question holds for us has got through.
The second difficulty, after environment, is agriculture, which is still a very sensitive subject.
We feel that it is treated too sparingly and should be extended to more appropriately reflect the importance of this issue for our societies and our own ambition, for such is the mandate I was given, to establish an international and multi-institutional dialogue on this subject.
The issue of the relationship between health and intellectual property, which the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned, is also problematic.
For a number of developing countries, the implementation of existing WTO agreements, or in many cases, their adaptation, is of the utmost importance and we must, we feel, be willing to respond openly and creatively to these concerns.
Some of the least advanced countries have a real problem of lack of capacity and resources and a solution must be found to this problem in the future work of the World Trade Organisation.
On behalf of the Commission, I hope that the resolution you will be voting on tomorrow will provide clear and powerful support for these European Union objectives.
With a vote in favour, you will be strengthening our negotiating hand and sending a political signal to our trading partners and to the general public, that the European Union will not simply be taking a 'business as usual' approach to these negotiations.
My group fully supports the negotiation line that the Council had already decided for the Seattle conference.
The new negotiation round to develop the liberalisation of world trade and rules of the game must treat matters on a broad basis so that we can strengthen sustainable economic growth; reinforce, develop and renew a trading system based on global rules; and ensure that its benefits are shared out equitably.
The recession as a result of the terrorist attacks on 11 September gives the perpetrators ultimate triumph.
A new trade round is necessary in order to restore confidence in the world economy to some extent and to open the way to renewed sustainable growth.
Mr President, firstly I should like to extend our congratulations to both the Council and the Commission for what seems to be a much improved preparation for this meeting, compared to the methodological confusion that seemed to reign prior to Seattle.
That is obviously a lesson well-learnt and we applaud the attempts to keep the document which will be discussed in Doha as crisp and brief as possible.
There are two issues of absolutely fundamental importance to us as a Liberal group.
Secondly on agriculture, our own views are that paragraphs 23 to 25, whilst just above adequate, are a little convoluted and mealy-mouthed on agriculture.
Our group has not signed the compromise resolution with the larger groups for a number of reasons, but the most important one is this: We believe that fundamental reform of the World Trade Organisation's processes and rules must be a precondition for any new round of trade talks.
Reform is not something that can be simply addressed as one issue among many in a new multilateral trade round where it risks being traded off against other interests and demands.
In our view, the WTO faces such a crisis of legitimacy in public opinion that reform must come before any further negotiations, and that is the position we have put forward in our joint resolution with the GUE Group.
The lessons of the failed Seattle Ministerial were that the WTO must become a fully democratic and transparent organisation which genuinely supports sustainable development and which effectively responds to the needs of developing countries.
Just two days ago, a communication from the G77 reiterated that position.
The possible opt-outs that are on offer are not a realistic or effective way of dealing with these concerns, since developing countries still do not have the capacity now to affect the negotiations of an agreement which they may be later under pressure to sign.
Mr President, after 11 September, we have every reason to redouble our commitment to multilateralism.
The criminals who destroyed the twin towers of the World Trade Center know the value of symbols.
Multilateralism must be neither asymmetrical nor imperialist.
The social issue is symbolic.
The implementation of the Marrakech agreements and the incorporated agenda on agriculture and services will be at the centre of the forthcoming round.
The legitimacy of the trade interests of the South must be recognised but the problem will lie in preventing negotiations boiling down to a process of tough haggling over their interests and our own.
Mr President, Commissioner, on the eve of this new meeting of the World Trade Organisation, which I prefer to call the Trading the World Organisation, you have used the correct term: legitimacy.
The developing countries are in a strong position and are not so very far from the truth when they say that all these so very politically correct issues actually serve to slow down the opening up of our markets to goods which have to come, first and foremost, from the least developed countries.
Unilateral measures opening up international trade benefit, first and foremost, those who have the courage to implement them.
We support Commissioner Lamy's efforts at using our cooperative structures to involve Africa in particular - Africa, that continent which is largely forgotten by world trade - more intensively in dialogue on the subject of a parliamentary assembly.
Our seminar on 12 April was the first example of a successful conference on trade, democracy and development to involve our friends from Africa alongside the representatives of the industrialised countries in America, Europe and Asia.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, Minister Neyts-Uyttebroeck, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events of 11 September have led to a re-emergence of two concepts which seemed to have been forgotten: multilateralism and solidarity.
Firstly, political practice is developing in such a way that we can only confront global threats in a global fashion: all united.
Only by extending freedom, human rights and development can we recover our security.
At the same time, these events have speeded up the decline in confidence in our security and the economy, areas which were already showing signs of weakness.
It is therefore now important that we send clear signs of revitalisation and attention to the concerns of our citizens and, above all, to the concerns of the countries which need it most, that is, the developing countries.
We want to move towards a result which provides a balance between opening up trade and subjecting that trade to rules, internal democratic, and external democratic, rules, which respect fundamental social standards, the environment and the security of our consumers.
We also want a balance between an increase in exchanges and special attention to the concerns of our citizens, as well as the concerns and needs of the developing countries, who must be allowed to share fully in the benefits of international trade.
In summary, therefore, the mandate which the Council has given to the Commission, in our opinion, corresponds to these balances and deserves our full support.
In return, Parliament and the parliamentary delegation which will accompany him to Qatar will offer him all their support.
In this global struggle, which is more crucial than the fight against terrorism, a number of 'progressive' people have believed that the EU could constitute a tool actually to combat neo-liberal globalisation.
If the EU does not change its tactics, there is everything to indicate, however, that, when it comes to the crunch, the WTO meeting in Doha will be proof that all the fine declarations of solidarity are being abandoned.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank you for the efforts you have made and the strategy you have employed in preparing for the Doha Summit, to promote fairer and more balanced sustainable development on a world scale, which contributes to respect for fundamental social rights and the protection of the environment, the benefits of which also reach the least-developed countries.
That is why I want to insist on the importance of the technical measures for developing countries, because it is these measures which will allow these countries to take full advantage of the commercial opportunities offered by the liberalisation of the markets.
I am thinking specifically of the textile industry, which has strictly respected its commitment to open up its market, increasing quotas and progressively increasing the application of the GATT rules in the sector, which is something that not all countries have done, including the most developed countries.
It is true that trade, even if it is multilateral, will not in itself resolve the inequalities of our planet, but it may reduce them by reconciling the interests and concerns of all the parties involved, especially those of the weakest.
I am going to concentrate on two frankly difficult areas - TRIPS and the environmental aspects of trade which you have already mentioned.
Intellectual property rights are important in world trade, but we thought that the 25.5 million HIV positive people in sub-Saharan Africa could have access to cheap drugs under TRIPS.
We in the EU know more than any other part of the world how untrammelled free trade can be controlled through multilateral rule-making to the benefit of our citizens.
Personally, I believe that this round will, more than any other, be able to send out a message to the world that it is possible to reconcile trade and politics.
I would earnestly request that you organise this meeting again this time and also ensure that we have a debate and that it is not just an occasion for a chat or seen as a bit of an afterthought, as the Council is wont to do, but that it really is an occasion for serious dialogue.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I should like to extend a warm thanks to all those who have taken the floor in this debate, for the good wishes they have conveyed to Commissioner Lamy and hopefully the Council presidency too, and I hope that we indeed manage to organise a balanced trade round with a broad-based agenda.
Mr Schwaiger, I can only respond on behalf of my government with regard to our position concerning an amendment to Article 133 of the Treaty.
Mr President, I too wish to thank the speakers who have stated their support for the Commission' s position - including the President-in-Office of the Council - and also to thank those who have wished the negotiators good luck.
Custom dictates that I should answer those who expressed more critical views and who, in tomorrow' s vote will not be adopting the position that the majority groups have stated they will.
I shall do so briefly, replying first to Caroline Lucas - speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - the reasoning in whose speech I consider to contain a slight contradiction.
On the one hand, Mrs Lucas, your group is in favour of tougher rules governing trade - specifically from the point of view of considering the environment - and yet, on the other, it is not in favour of negotiations taking place.
Mr Abitbol spoke on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group.
I would remind you that this issue was decided for the future of the European Union 44 years ago.
Lastly, Mr Abitbol, on the point you made, as on other critical points that were made, I would simply remind you that although the Commission negotiates on behalf of the Union, it does so under the control of those who gave it its mandate, which are the Council of Ministers and Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
With the advent of the WTO, trade rules were extended to a large number of new areas, including services, intellectual property, investment and rules on non-tariff barriers, that frequently affect non-trade issues.
These rules have a binding force, which is backed by a dispute settlement system with the capacity to impose sanctions.
In recent years, trade agreements have also had a growing impact on other international rules in areas such as the environment, health and social rights.
Thus, WTO agreements or decisions have threatened the precautionary principle, environmental protection and access to medicines.
At least 24 developing countries that are members of the WTO have no permanent representation in Geneva, and numerous others have only very small delegations that do not allow them to follow all of the proceedings that concern them.
In such situations, form and content are real issues for developing countries because the rules and agreements more often reflect the interests of the trading powers that have negotiated them between themselves, sometimes in 'green rooms' or in informal meetings, which are far too secretive - than the interests of all members, particularly of the poorest countries.
Generally, where the developing countries are concerned, six years on from the creation of the WTO, the picture before us reveals a limited opening up of markets in the north, considerable difficulties in implementing agreements and persistent marginalisation from the workings of the WTO.
And, two years after Seattle, the multilateral trade system is still undergoing a threefold crisis of democratic legitimacy, as a consequence of the uneven distribution of the benefits of world trade, of the marginalisation of many of its members, as a result of the impact of some WTO rules on other basic principles, even at international level, and lastly due to a lack of transparency and the limited involvement of parliaments and civil society in the work of the WTO.
As you know, Commissioner, our committee, therefore, adopted, by a large majority - 48 votes to 5, with 1 abstention - a report which is noteworthy above all for its set of practical proposals, grouped into four main chapters.
The Commission should propose the creation, for example, on the basis of a contribution proportional to each member' s share of international trade, of a fund or an increase in the WTO' s budget, which would enable all member countries to have a representation in Geneva.
We propose supporting regional representations, which is already being done, specifically for the ACP countries, but we feel that we need to go further; we need to establish internal transparency; until all members have a representation, we must allow non-resident countries to have rapid access to records of meetings and draft agreements; we must establish clear rules on so-called 'informal' consultations to allow all countries that wish to take part to do so, by publishing agendas in advance and by ensuring that reports of prior decisions, which are sometimes prepared, are provided to the competent bodies in good time.
Thirdly, there is the issue of parliamentary control, which was mentioned in the previous debate, at both national and European level and also by means of a consultative parliamentary assembly within the WTO.
In so doing, however, we must not overlook the fact that Europe has 18 million small enterprises, which, at the end of the day, employ two-thirds of the workforce.
The economy is at the centre of this discussion, and this is something that we should not forget in the whole WTO debate.
That is why I welcome the fact that President Neyts will support the European Parliament and parliaments throughout the world in their efforts to bring more transparency and also in the end, I hope, more wealth into this world.
Events in the Dispute Settlement Body must also be seen in this light.
There is, of course, a difference between a delegation arriving with 150 experts and a developing country having great difficulty sending its ambassador to the places concerned.
Otherwise, Harlem Désir has already said everything that needed to be said.
Mr President, I would also like to join in the congratulations to Mr Désir, the rapporteur.
I should add that all the emphasis that we, as Europeans, place on the need for increased legitimacy and transparency in the WTO will come to nothing if we do not reform the way in which we conduct our own trade policy in the European Union.
I was delighted to hear the presidency today say that it has supported in the past, and will support in the future, Parliament's demands for more transparent and legitimate trade policy-making in the European Council and the European Union.
The report also - and this is perhaps its greatest contribution to the debate - shows the way in which the WTO has to be placed increasingly in a context of other public policy priorities and other multilateral organisations and agreements.
It cannot rely on a role as primus inter pares on the international scene.
Instead it should learn to interact with other priorities and other multilateral agreements.
Our role is, therefore, to flank the WTO with other supporting agreements in other fields, notably the environmental field.
The challenge that the Désir report sets the European Parliament is to make world trade more free but also more equitable and sustainable under a multilateral system and within the auspices of a reformed WTO.
The specific proposals put forward by the rapporteur on reforming the international institutions warrant our attention: greater transparency and reform of the settlement procedure.
If the European Parliament' s position for the forthcoming round is based on the Désir report, it will have to be to reform the WTO, to implement the so-called Uruguay agreements, but without extending them to cover issues that remain controversial.
It therefore follows that these institutions are suffering an unprecedented crisis of legitimacy in respect of vast sections of communities, and are in vital need of thorough reform.
The Désir report addresses clearly the limitations and dysfunctional areas of international trade, of unequal participation, and the lack of transparency and democracy and the ensuing consequences, and proposes reforms to remedy these shortcomings.
Global trade requires global rules and development requires understanding of some of the problems of the developing countries.
Mr President, the new WTO round perfectly illustrates our criticism of the way in which this body is organised.
This is supposedly a development round, but the European ministers for cooperation and development are not taking part in the forthcoming meeting.
The WTO perpetuates the imbalance in world trade and the establishment of rules that are unfavourable to the developing countries.
Mr Lamy, if negotiations must take place, then they must focus on a root and branch reform of the WTO.
This will enable us to preserve the biological heritage of the developing countries and the traditional skills in the south as well as the north.
The European Union, for example, is responsible for establishing the ACP countries' Centre in Geneva, which will enable these countries to better coordinate their position and consequently exert greater influence within the WTO.
The WTO has explicitly recognised the right in this affair of each member to set its own level of protection.
Admittedly, the system could be improved: it must be made more open and the developing countries must be more fully integrated.
With regard to your statement that decision making within the WTO is the sole preserve of the richer nations, I would say that, although this may once have been true, it is increasingly less the case in an organisation of more than 140 members and, in which, small discussion groups are inevitable in its day-to-day work.
Many preparatory meetings of this type have taken place over these last few weeks, for example, the ministerial mini-meeting in Mexico at the end of August, the Europe-Asia meeting in Hanoi in mid-September, the Europe-Africa meeting in Nairobi in mid-October and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) meeting at the weekend.
With regard to dispute settlement, an issue you have also addressed, I would make three comments.
Let us remember, however, just between ourselves, that the developing countries have very firmly held positions on this point, which we do not share.
Where the relationship with other rules of international law is concerned, we must ensure greater coherence and prevent conflict between trade and non-trade rules.
This must apply to the very substance of the commitments in question.
As to the issue of revising the agreement on intellectual property, which you consider to be necessary, I do not think that a thorough revision would be appropriate.
This is the basis of our position in Geneva, which I mentioned in the previous debate.
Mrs Auroi, the issue of compatibility between the agreement on intellectual property and the convention on biodiversity is one of the points that we wish to see clarified in these negotiations.
With regard to the incentive measures to ensure compliance with basic standards in the field of employment law, we agree with your wish, Mr Désir, to highlight the importance of strengthening the ILO and this is why your suggestion to create a multilateral agreement within the WTO does not fill us with any great enthusiasm.
I would say that, as this afternoon's debate has shown, the Commission' s political line, approved and implemented by the Council, is also coherent with the position of this House.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, in recent weeks we have frequently said it, and in the light of this annual report we should emphasise it once more: since 11 September we have not actually learnt anything new.
Each individual European state only has a chance of guaranteeing the long-term peace and security of its own people if we pool our resources, in terms of military forces, in the field of prevention and in the field of civil crisis management, but also in terms of ensuring cooperation between our security bodies and intelligence services.
For this reason, I believe, we have actually made considerable progress in the last two years in view of the decisions made since the Treaties of Amsterdam and Nice and, in particular, those made at Cologne and subsequent summits.
I do not believe that the large anti-terrorism coalition will be able to exist in the long term if the European Union does not foster stability in the Mediterranean area through the Barcelona process.
If we wish to play a role in politics as a whole, however, we must also actively work to further develop our relations with Russia, build new bridges and provide those countries which at present cannot, should not or do not wish to be members of the European Union with a new framework and a new form of European economic area.
It is often the case that prevention only works if it is possible to show the country in which you want to intervene to establish peace that you also have military options.
Incidentally, the report is most timely, because, with regard to all issues concerning foreign policy as a whole, in other words, the Union' s policy towards the rest of the world, security policy in all its aspects and defence policy, the European Parliament is clearly in a state of change.
I was present in this House for the discussion of the Treaty of Amsterdam, when we stated our disappointment at the little progress made on common security and defence policy.
The events of recent months and weeks have shown, whatever may have been said about them this morning, that the European Union is becoming, and is being perceived to be, an increasingly important player on the world stage.
This gives us both greater visibility and, of course, imposes greater responsibilities on us.
We, the Member States of the European Union, are also increasingly managing - and the Belgian presidency has played a part in this - to speak with one voice in international bodies and I am thinking in particular of the United Nations, which currently play an extremely important role.
I am sure you know that this is an open process, in which the Fifteen want to involve the candidate countries and the allied non-Member States of the European Union.
We shall maintain this commitment on a long-term basis in various crisis situations, whether it be in the Balkans, the Middle East or in Africa.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis which has its origins in the terrible attacks on 11 September in the United States has shown that the European Union is capable of reacting in a rapid and coherent manner.
I believe that that too is, and will be, an important element in the further development of our common policy.
We have decided to adopt a voluntaristic policy vis-à-vis the Arab-Muslim world and we are united with many to give out the same message, namely that the crisis that has broken out and the fight against international terrorism can in no way be considered a war between civilisations.
We welcome the progress made by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia since its return to democracy a little more than a year ago.
I should nevertheless like to emphasise that events in Macedonia have shown that close cooperation between NATO and ourselves is possible and that we are able to play a role in the prevention and management of crises. (NL) Another region in crisis where the European Union is pursuing an active control and prevention policy is Africa.
This development can only contribute to the stability not only of our own continent, but also to stability throughout the world.
Lastly, I should like to mention the Fourth EU-China Summit, which also enabled us to strengthen political dialogue but, once again, this political dialogue includes the issue of human rights.
The honourable Member's report gives a very accurate overview of what has been achieved so far.
I particularly welcome his proposals for a strong parliamentary dimension in the common foreign and security policy.
It is very important that we put down deeper democratic roots for the common foreign and security policy and that should involve not only this distinguished Parliament but also national parliaments.
If anybody challenges the progress that we have made in developing a CFSP they should compare what happened during this crisis with what happened in the run-up to the Gulf War at the beginning of the 1990s or how we coped with the Balkans in the early to mid-1990s.
I do not put it any more strongly than that, but the High Representative and I have worked as hard as we could make these structures work as effectively as is possible.
I could, for example, have gone into a detailed paragraph or two agreeing on Russia and the Ukraine, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on the Balkans in general and on the importance of getting back to Mitchell in the Middle East.
The two points I should like to mention briefly are these: firstly, we rightly talk about the importance of trying to ensure that the international campaign against terrorism is not seen as a conflict between the West - Europe and North America - and the world of Islam.
I have no doubt at all that they are serious about wanting to negotiate a trade and cooperation agreement with us.
Finally, I would like to say once again how important it is to mobilise all our institutions, all our competences, as effectively as possible in pursuit of a common foreign and security policy.
Sometimes it is possible to underestimate the contribution which the Commission can make and wants to make in the CFSP field.
It goes without saying that the European Community, making a virtue out of necessity, has, thanks to the determination of the Commission, the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the High Representative, seen its visibility increased since the attacks on 11 September.
This morning, during the debate on the European Council in Ghent, the President-in-Office of the Council fairly diplomatically said that an awkward situation had arisen as a result of the tripartite meeting that had taken place outside the summit.
And the European Union, in the aftermath of the situation that has arisen as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, has to rethink its common foreign and security policy, including within it the fight against terrorism, speeding up the achievement of its objectives and making the common strategies mechanism more efficient.
Solidarity with the United States must therefore also mean our drawing the United States' attention to those areas where it is necessary to pursue a common policy in the world community.
My third and final point is that if we form alliances, in particular this alliance against terrorism, an alliance which we must and should form, we will more often find ourselves facing a contradiction or conflict between our strategic concerns on the one hand and our human rights concerns on the other.
This can happen if we do not remain vigilant and at the same time put the issue of human rights at the centre of our foreign policy.
However, we do not agree with the fundamental aspects of his report and, for this reason, we cannot support it with our vote.
Firstly, 11 September was an opportune moment for the European Union to demonstrate that it could play a positive, peaceful and reflective role with the United States, in order to find, in the International Criminal Tribunal and through International Law, a solution to the conflict.
Secondly, the report gives great importance to NATO, when we think that NATO works against the interests of the European Union.
Lastly, it is very important that the European Union should play a role in the Middle East and in the Western Sahara, and we are also wasting this opportunity.
Mr President, entirely in line with the current international situation, the rapporteur, my fellow MEP Mr Brok, is of the opinion that the fight against international terrorism should become one of the European foreign and security policy' s core tasks.
Further to a recently published scientific analysis of the question whether Bosnia might function as European base for Osama bin Laden' s terrorist network, I should like to find out from the Council and Commission whether they have any concrete indications that Bin Laden followers are indeed active in the Western section of the Balkans and if so, how the EU and its Member States, obviously in close cooperation with the US, intend to stand up to this dangerous destabilisation of that region.
Furthermore, the Brok report calls for a continuation of the political dialogue with Indonesia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know I am repeating what others have already said when I say that the tragic attacks of 11 September have changed the course of this century' s history for ever, but I feel that I can never stress enough how true this is, that the international Community is now faced with a crisis that is as great as it is unprecedented and unfamiliar, with rules and trends that not even the most experienced of political analysts is able to predict.
However, at a time such as this, it is important for the European Union to show itself to be as, and more, united than before and as, and more, capable than before of reacting with one voice.
At a time such as this, when all our worst fears are unexpectedly realised, we realise the importance of this Europe that we are integrating, the importance of being united and having coordinating structures able to operate in real time, of being able to think and act all together and in respect for all the positions.
If we do this, we will achieve a stronger, more resilient Europe and a stronger euro, and we will certainly be able to take a better approach to enlargement and, moreover, to compete on equal terms with the dollar and NAFTA - Canada, the United States and Mexico - the Agreement as it stands, a market which already exists and already presents important political points of reference.
Mr President, Commissioner, if you would be good enough to take an interest in the debate, ladies and gentlemen, in our efforts to construct a common foreign and security policy we must not lose sight of the fact that, in the future, as in the present and the past, the European Union will certainly face the risk of its forces becoming involved in armed action.
He is right to say that we have responded to the current crisis with a coherence and unity that we would not have thought possible only four or five years ago.
We must put some teeth into our common foreign and security policy.
These people are missing in action and I would hope the Commission and the Council would use this opportunity to get those hostages restored to their families.
The report is a good one, but it still fails to take the full measure of the profound change which has taken place in international politics following 11 September.
The representatives from the United States have stated that a second Cold War has begun, and some have even talked of a third World War.
Any analysis of the evolution of the CFSP would regrettably have to conclude that the Maastricht Treaty sacrificed political integration to ensure economic integration and, as a consequence, undermine the EU's potential to be a major foreign policy player on the world stage.
It seemed for a while that we had learned from this grim experience and there was a determined effort in the Treaty of Amsterdam to ensure more coherence in our common foreign and security policy approach.
Whatever institutional and other changes take place, there will never be real progress unless and until all Member States act and speak as one.
The current situation in the wake of 11 September underlines this point.
The events of 11 September and subsequent events greatly impact on that policy.
The Stability Pact should be closely linked to the work of the Agency for Reconstruction and should perhaps be extended to the Agency for Reconstruction and Development in this region.
In this way, we would, for example, be able to foster significant and large-scale cooperation in the energy sector.
Many Commission officials will in any case very soon be unemployed because the enlargement negotiations in the Commission are as good as closed in some areas.
Let us give the Stability Pact to the Commission and, perhaps, to one other wise man, Martti Ahtisaari, in addition, so that it really is a success for the entire region and for the European Union.
The debate is closed.
Given the very serious financial crisis in Turkey since the beginning of the year, the government has had to play by ear.
The worsening of world economic conditions, both before and after 11 September, can, unfortunately, only make efforts to recover more difficult.
We should welcome the fact that, at a particularly difficult economic time, a large part of government and parliamentary activity has been devoted to basic reforms linked to this European process.
In March, the government presented its national programme for the adoption of the acquis.
Above all, most regrettably, the principle of the supremacy of international law - and thus, possibly, in the near future, of European law - over national law has been expressly ruled out.
Furthermore, on 8 October, the government tabled a second legislative package of rights and freedoms, which relate to the penal code and penal procedure and the laws on anti-terrorism, the press, political parties, associations and demonstrations.
The third advance outside parliament was that this summer saw the beginnings of a public debate on the taboo subject of the role of the military in political life.
Finally, I would also like to highlight President Sezer' s courage in denouncing corruption, an endemic disease of Turkish society, and in using his legislative veto against texts which represented a step backwards for democracy.
I will leave it to Mr Daniel Cohn-Bendit, who chaired the parliamentary committee which visited Turkish prisons, to express our views on this subject in a moment.
The dissolution of the main opposition party (the Virtue Party) demonstrated that the political system has not stabilised and that changes in the law regarding the status of political parties are required as a matter of urgency.
And we note that Turkey continues to block the draft agreement between the European Union and NATO, a draft which is all the more urgent given current international tension.
Since our resolution of 15 November 2000, which is cited in our current motion for a resolution, our Turkish partners have been aware of the importance our Parliament attaches to the official recognition of the Armenian genocide.
Coming months will be vital in judging efforts to modernise the economy.
Turkey wishes to have its own models for society and democracy.
But there are two needs which we all acknowledge.
The national programme for integration into the European Union talks of revising the constitution so as to guarantee sexual equality; however, there are no plans, whatsoever, to adopt positive measures which, as the women's organisations have pointed out, would allow all the laws which institutionalise discrimination against women to be amended.
If further negotiations get underway we will also have to answer the question of whether Turkey is in a position to meet the conditions of the European internal market.
It is a very good report.
There are a number of hard points, however, which we need to discuss with Turkey, and certainly there is still a need to discuss the issue of human rights, in particular.
The state of emergency could then be lifted relatively quickly in the provinces in which it is still in force.
It will be closely studied in Turkey, where the reformers will find much to encourage them in their efforts to bring Turkey forward on the track of modernisation, liberalisation, full respect for fundamental rights and social and economic progress.
Such reciprocity between our two parliaments would demonstrate, in a dramatic way, that Turkey is truly advancing upon its European journey.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the interpreters for being here in greater numbers than us to translate this very important debate which is being held at such a late hour.
Yes, Mr Pasqua, you will have the right to speak.
Our role as the European Union is not, therefore, simply to give lessons, but, rather, to accompany Turkey on the journey towards democracy, in other words, to have positions to defend.
And that is why I will make a comment, and I would ask all those who still wish to tell Turkey that there was a genocide seventy-five years ago - which is true - in what way does that help the debate in Turkey today?
The European Parliament, the societies of the Member States of the European Union, will not show indefinite patience if the situation does not appear to be improving.
I would therefore like to end by appealing to the Turkish parliamentarians up there in the gallery, and say to them that if they really want the Turkey which they love and govern today to join the European Union, they must be aware that the efforts which our notion of democracy requires of Turkey are efforts which go beyond what is being undertaken at the moment by the Turkish Grand Assembly.
They are efforts which go beyond what seems acceptable to the Turkish military.
If they do not go further, our future will perhaps not be a common one, which would be a shame.
Mr President, I think it important that we send two clear messages today.
The first must be that we want Turkey as a member of the EU and as a member of the European family.
I will surprise nobody by reminding you of the position of the French delegation of my group.
I have tried in vain to understand why the majority of this House have an absolute desire for Turkey to join the European Union.
You have decided to urge her to join us.
But I will add something else.
Other countries which have been responsible for genocides have been better able to accept their responsibilities.
About terrorism in Turkey, the Lamassoure report concludes in recital G "that Turkey has largely overcome the difficulties posed by various forms of terrorism in the past" .
For years, they could not even count on European solidarity in their bloody fight against Turkish terrorist organisations.
After the memorable date of Tuesday, 11 September, Turkey considers that the time has come for the European Union and its Member States finally to issue effective anti-terrorist measures.
The European Union and its Member States should, at long last, recognise the permanent internal and external threat to the Republic of Turkey.
The EU' s emphasis on human rights in Turkey coinciding with the fact that it turns a blind eye to the fight against international terrorism is unacceptable.
It is a fact that various violent groupings of Turkish origin maintain organisational structures in EU Member States.
Certainly after 11 September, it is more difficult for Brussels and the capitals of the EU countries to ignore this in silence.
I say 'with knowledge of the subject' because I know how passionate the debates on this subject have been over the last two years or more.
European defence is based on the Atlantic Alliance and it will continue in that direction, quite simply because Europe would not have the means to do otherwise.
It has been said that the resolution of the Cypriot problem is one of the conditions, in my view a prior condition, of any possible decision on the entry of Turkey into the Union.
I do not believe that the Turkish populations in Cyprus are really in danger today and I believe it would be a very important gesture for Turkey to accept, as a first step, during the current negotiations, a reduction in the number of its armed forces in Cyprus, or even better, their evacuation.
I am saying this, above all, because in Turkey, I often come across people making a certain assertion: those in Turkey who repeatedly accuse the European Parliament of being hostile to Turkey will now have to admit yet again that this assertion is not true.
As the rapporteur states, the flurry of legislative activity in the Turkish Parliament to reform the constitution really is laudable.
The long-awaited implementation of the reform is urgently necessary, particularly now after 11 September, but also in spite of 11 September.
I hope that this last report will motivate those responsible in Turkey to move forward and, not only to talk about reforms, but also to really implement them.
Mr President, this very good report shows Turkey is making progress towards Europe, but more is needed.
For instance, 19 people are being prosecuted for insulting state officials because they attended a conference at which victims who had suffered torture in the form of rape in custody spoke out against their tormenters.
The PKK have observed the cease-fire for over two years.
Mr President, what efforts has the Turkish government made since the Helsinki Summit to guarantee human and fundamental rights, to find a peaceful solution to the Kurdish issue and to abolish the death penalty?
I would answer, no.
I, too, carry this message in my heart and will also do all I can in the future so that one day this wish will come true.
Time will tell if Turkey recognises and appreciates these well-meant messages, although I fear that experience to date does not give us cause to be optimistic that we shall soon have a clear response from Turkey to the effect that it really is prepared to prove itself worthy of its candidate status and of integration into the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Lamassoure report maintains that Turkey has a right to become a member of the European Union.
We know from our own experience how difficult it is move forward from a tradition of eastern despotism towards a modern society.
The disaster on the 11 September has taught us, I think, that today's world needs reconciliation in order to survive, by which I do not of course mean reconciliation with the terrorists, I mean reconciling tensions between us, precisely in order to isolate terrorists and establish a safe and fair world.
Turkey is a third world European country which needs to learn the same lesson as France and Germany, that is, that if we want to move on, we have to stop waging the wars of the 1920s or the wars of the 1940s in the present day.
Mr President, the report acknowledges certain obvious truths.
Arrests, over 10 000 political prisoners, torture chambers, murders, inhumane conditions in prisons, which are extolled in the report, are on the agenda.
The hunger strikers have been fighting to the death now for 370 days and dozens have already died.
The report calls these fighters extremists and the Turkish state calls them terrorists, while the Kurds are deprived of fundamental rights, the occupying forces remain in Cyprus after their barbaric invasion 27 years ago and the report says not a word.
I should like to call on our Turkish counterparts and the Turkish people to take note of the report as a whole and not just selectively, just as we are making an effort to take note of all the developments in Turkey.
We do, of course, realise that we rightly wish that all Muslim countries in the world were structured like Turkey and that we would then have fewer problems, especially in the light of 11 September.
However, we would be wronging Turkey if we did not make things absolutely clear to her - being clear, not hypocritical - and being clear means telling her that a great deal remains to be done in terms of democratic civilisation and behaviour, and that means reforms.
In this sense, the ability to implement political and social reforms benefiting the Kurdish minority is a highly effective parameter.
Mr President, I would also like to pay tribute to Mr Lamassoure's excellent work as rapporteur.
I have always believed that Turkey could be a very important bridge-head between the current Members of the EU and the Islamic world.
It is especially important in the changed world that exists after 11 September.
However, Turkey still has a long way to go.
In last year's annual assessment report the Commission concluded that, although a wide-ranging debate on political reforms had begun and Turkey had signed several international human rights instruments over the past year, the situation on the ground had hardly improved.
It is clear that continued support for a closer EU-Turkey relationship, including eventual accession, is the best way to accelerate political reform and progress in human rights.
But it also underlines another point of view that we should make very clear to the Turkish authorities: that in order for this to take place, Turkey must become a full democracy.
This would also make it possible for us, too, to produce documents on Turkey without worrying about how to address the question of Armenia.
However, we all know, and Turkey should also know, which is why we must say so loud and clear, that they represent enormous progress within Turkey itself.
The second point which I think is important is the fight against corruption within Turkey.
But it is out of the question in a democratic community for the military, in the form of the national security council, always to have the last word, de facto, on parliament's resolutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the broad agreement in this debate on Turkey's progress.
I hope that we can use this common ground when assessing the work in store for us.
I prefer to believe that Turkey's uniqueness also lies in its cultural and historic heritage and in the political role which it can play at this global political interface.
Our relations have progressed well since Helsinki.
We want to continue the pre-accession strategy for Turkey on the basis of the principles adopted in Helsinki.
The Lamassoure report refers to the difficult economic situation in Turkey.
As for us, we shall release the first tranche of EUR 75 million from the European Union structural adjustment facility for Turkey as quickly as possible.
A solution to the Cyprus question will benefit future relations between the European Union and Turkey enormously.
As far as outstanding problems with European security and defence policy are concerned, I called on Turkey, just a few days ago, to help achieve a constructive solution as quickly as possible.
In all events, this problem should be resolved before the meeting of the European Council in Laeken in December this year.
I welcome the European Parliament's position on the programme of financial assistance.
It is true that we are probably now in a decisive stage of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10 a.m.
We discussed this topic at first reading on 12 February.
The Commission proposal for a directive was prompted by the high number of accidents involving bulk carriers.
The European Commission would like to change this.
On behalf of the fifteen Member States, it wants to meet the IMO' s request and afford the BLU Code legal status.
The Commission proposal, therefore, aims to include the BLU Code in Community legislation.
We feel that this recommendation is a major step forwards, particularly in the field of maritime safety, especially since the statistics of past years are extremely alarming: in the last 10 years, between 1990 and 1999, we recorded the sinking of 146 bulk carriers and the deaths of 780 crew members, all of which occurred during the loading or unloading of these carriers.
This directive will transpose into Community legislation the code of the International Maritime Organisation, which is currently in force in relation to the safe loading and unloading of ships, as well as certain parts of the convention for the safety of life at sea.
As soon as its application becomes obligatory in all the Union' s ports, this code will be much more widely used and will, therefore, contribute to the safety of all bulk carriers visiting the Union.
As the rapporteur has indicated, this directive is aimed at combating the phenomenon of the disappearance of bulk carriers, that is, the sinking of these ships, which suddenly break up in open sea and sink in a few minutes, thereby causing the loss of considerable human life.
As the rapporteur has said, the directive is designed to ensure that the handling of cargo in our ports respects strict rules, so as to prevent damage to ships during loading or unloading of heavy bulk cargo.
Before and during loading and unloading, the crew on board and the dock personnel must be in contact and in agreement, and, furthermore, a plan must be agreed in advance in relation to the way the loading and unloading will be carried out.
Heavy equipment which is often used in these operations must be handled with caution, and, in the event of a disagreement between the two parties, the dock personnel and the crew on board, the competent authority must be able to intervene to suspend the operations in order to prevent possible damage to the structure of the bulk carriers.
The Commission is therefore very pleased that Parliament intends to accept the common position of the Council without amendments, because, if it is adopted rapidly, this directive will be able to enter into force very soon.
This also shows that, on sensitive maritime issues, the European Parliament and the Council are able to rapidly reach a decision with the greatest degree of cohesion, and the Commission hopes that the cohesion demonstrated in this case will also be demonstrated in relation to the other great issues which are currently on the agenda.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10 a.m.
The proposed directive would mean that the International Maritime Organisation's FAL forms would always be approved in our ports.
Finally, I wish to give thanks once again for the cooperation of the Commission and of the Council.
We are now eighteen, it is true, years behind with regard to 1 January 1983, which already seems like such a long time ago, when the Community institutions and the then ten Member States approved the Single European Act.
The standardisation of reporting formalities will, without a doubt, contribute to an improvement in maritime transport between ports situated in Member States, encouraging the promotion of short sea shipping.
We would also invite those Member States who have not done so, to ratify this Convention, although the Commission proposal does not oblige them to do so.
The rapporteur has made good revisions to the proposal for a directive.
This demonstrates the importance which we all now attach to short sea shipping.
For several years, the Community has been implementing a complete strategy aimed at making short sea shipping a viable and realistic alternative to purely road transport.
The Commission has therefore presented a proposal aimed at simplifying certain documentary procedures.
The procedures currently in force are not in themselves unreasonable, but the methods for conforming to them are so different from one Member State to another that they often lead to confusion amongst shipowners and operators.
Thanks to the amendments which he has presented in his report, we believe we will be able to reach an agreement with the Council with a view to adopting this proposal at first reading.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10 a.m.
The People' s Republic of China, which is still a country formally governed by a Communist party, is now to be a part of what might be called the stronghold of the free market economy, the WTO.
One of the books is known in English translation as Collision: Globalisation and China' s Reality Choice.
The second book is known in English as China in the Shadow of Globalisation and constitutes a warning to the effect that accession to the WTO might cause China to split into five parts.
The fact that the chaos which might result from accession to the WTO could lead to the division of the country touches a sensitive point in China' s understanding of itself.
Unemployment in city areas is already estimated at over 15 per cent.
China has nine hundred million people employed within agriculture.
Taiwan will be accorded a local collective agreement with China and become a member the day after China has become a member.
There will also be significant repercussions for the European Union: I am aware, for example, of what could happen to us with regard to agriculture.
For this reason, although we are aware of the whole range of problems, dangers and possibilities that this accession brings, our group supports these two proposals without reservation.
In a few years, we shall live in a Europe which can be an area of stability and freedom.
Only with China, both the People's Republic and Taiwan, will the WTO become a real world trade organisation.
The award of the 2008 Olympic Games to Beijing became as acute a topic of discussion as the accession to the WTO is now.
We are still in shock from the horror of 11 September.
Mr President, my thanks to the Commissioner for the work which he has carried out.
The Commission submitted the accession conditions to you for your opinion.
If you accept the recommendation of your rapporteur, the Union will be in a position to give the green light to China' s accession at the next Ministerial Conference of the WTO, which, as you know, will take place in Doha on 9-13 November.
An accession to the WTO is not negotiated within a traditional multilateral framework, where concessions are made on the basis of the principle of reciprocity.
On the contrary, in an accession negotiation, at least to the WTO (I say that prudently, since this seat was occupied by Günter Verheugen less than an hour ago), a country puts itself forward as a candidate to join a club whose members have already negotiated commitments amongst themselves.
The candidate country must therefore pay for entry into that club by offering commitments in terms of access to markets which reflect what the members have already accepted amongst themselves.
On several occasions your report points out, and with a degree of reproach which has not escaped me, the positive tone taken by the Commission to describe the results we have achieved after fifteen years of negotiations.
Our task was primarily to defend the interests of the Union in these negotiations, and that is what we have done.
It is also the case, however, that this agreement is not some kind of unilateral victory for the Union, which is something, if I have understood correctly, that you rather reproach us for.
If there has been any victory, I am tempted to say that it is a multilateral one, since it is the multilateral system as a whole which has been strengthened as a result.
We cannot claim that the WTO has a global vocation if it excludes a country which represents more than 20% of the world' s population.
Well, after fifteen long years of negotiations, the different parties involved, China and its trading partners, have reached the conclusion that that time has arrived.
Chinese external trade has increased by an average of 15% per year over the last twenty years.
And accession to the WTO ensures China a stable framework for her commercial policy by guaranteeing the outlets which are crucial to her.
Her status as a member will also allow her to defend her commercial interests by participating fully in the round of negotiations.
At the end of the day it is clear that accession to the WTO is only one element, perhaps an essential one, but, nevertheless, only one element in the reform process launched by Deng Xiaoping in 1978 and continued by his successors.
More than an end in itself, accession is a consequence of these past reforms and a springboard for new reforms to come.
This close connection between the timetable for internal reforms and accession to the WTO has been recognised by China' s trading partners, the Union, in particular, by means of the acceptance of transitional periods for the implementation of certain obligations.
Mr Gahrton, you referred to two works which stress the dangers which may arise in China as a result of accession to the WTO in terms of regional tensions or social problems.
I do not believe that these problems are being underestimated by the Chinese authorities, whose fundamental political objective seems to me, to be to guarantee the stability and integrity of their country.
From the conversations I have had with them, I understand that China sees accession to the WTO as an essential element in the continuation of these twenty years of reforms, and, therefore, a continuation of this growth which has allowed internal tensions to be kept under control, here or there.
This is therefore a classic, if specific, case of the relationship between commerce and development.
We all know, and I have often said to you, that commercial liberalisation is a good thing, as long as it is accompanied by the means to translate growth into sustainable development, that is to say, internal social and environmental policies, without which the beneficial effects of commercial liberalisation are not enjoyed.
From this point or view, we believe that China' s accession promotes that type of better internal policy.
In conclusion, I would like to insist on the fact that the result of these negotiations is balanced.
Yes, accession will have a positive impact in terms of the quest for economic development in China, and therefore on the quest for internal reforms.
In any event, it is the Chinese themselves who have chosen to integrate themselves into the international economy, and so much the better.
At the same time we can only rejoice at the fact that, for the first time, Taiwan is becoming a full member of an international organisation, in a way which reflects its economic development and its status as an industrialised country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by saying to the House that these two results are due to the wisdom of my predecessor, Sir Leon Brittan, who had made these two accessions one of the priorities of the Union' s commercial policy.
All I have done is finish the work which he had largely and judiciously started.
The debate is closed.
Despite the gravity of the events taking place in Central Asia which have caused you to postpone your intended tour of Europe, you have been kind enough to go ahead with your visit to the European Parliament.
For the enormous majority of the 380 million Europeans of the Union, of all backgrounds, national, ethnic, religious or political, you embody peace and tolerance between nations and religions, as well as the wise ideals of Buddhism, of which you are the highest spiritual authority.
As a young man, 42 years ago, in 1959, faced with the invasion of Tibet, you had to make the heartbreaking decision to flee Lhasa, not in order to abandon your people, but because exile was your only remaining means of defending those people throughout the world.
You have brilliantly demonstrated, like Mahatma Gandhi, like Nelson Mandela and like Andrei Sakharov, that the peaceful expression of a noble cause can bring understanding, respect and sometimes victory.
On 11 September, the world was horrified to see the new face of a monstrous form of terrorism.
Since we have seen how those events have led to the danger of misunderstanding between civilisations, the message which you are to address to the Europeans today is of universal and particularly topical importance.
I am convinced that this message, by means of our Parliament, will have a profound resonance throughout Europe and beyond.
As my prepared statement is in Tibetan, I want to read in Tibetan to show respect for my own unique, separate language.
The next day a local newspaper reported very favourably on my remarks but said that the Dalai Lama spoke at the beginning in Chinese.
However, my life-long study and practice of Buddhism and my responsibility and involvement in the non-violent freedom struggle of the Tibetan people have given me some experiences and thoughts that I would like to share with you.
It is evident that the human community has reached a critical juncture in its history.
The world is becoming increasingly interdependent.
Without the cultivation and promotion of a sense of universal responsibility our very future is in danger.
I strongly believe that we must consciously develop a greater sense of universal responsibility.
In the context of our newly emerging global community all forms of violence, including war, are totally inappropriate means of settling disputes.
However, there would be no winners at all if another global conflict were to occur today.
We must, therefore, have the courage and vision to call for a world without nuclear weapons and national armies in the long run. (Loud applause)Especially, in the light of the terrible attacks in the United States the international community must make a sincere attempt to use the horrible and shocking experience to develop a sense of global responsibility, where a culture of dialogue and non-violence is used in resolving differences.
It is not enough for governments to endorse the principle of non-violence without any appropriate action to support and promote it.
So we must learn to detect early signs of conflict and have the courage to address the problem before it reaches its boiling point.
I remain convinced that most human conflicts can be solved through genuine dialogue conducted with a spirit of openness and reconciliation.
I have therefore consistently sought a resolution of the issue of Tibet through non-violence and dialogue.
Hence as a result of deliberate policies an entire people with its unique culture and identity are facing the threat of extinction.
I had chosen consciously the European Parliament as a venue to present my thoughts for a framework for negotiations in order to underline the point that a genuine union can only come about voluntarily when there are satisfactory benefits to all the parties concerned.
My proposal which later became known as the 'Middle Way Approach' or the 'Strasbourg Proposal' envisages that Tibet enjoy genuine autonomy within the framework of the People' s Republic of China.
However, not the autonomy on paper imposed on us 50 years ago in the 17-Point Agreement, but a true self-governing, genuinely autonomous Tibet, with Tibetans fully responsible for their own domestic affairs, including the education of their children, religious matters, cultural affairs, the care of their delicate and precious environment, and the local economy.
This solution would greatly enhance the international image of China and contribute to her stability and unity -- the two topmost priorities of Beijing -- while at the same time the Tibetans would be ensured of the basic rights and freedoms to preserve their own civilisation and to protect the delicate environment of the Tibetan plateau.
Since then our relation with the Chinese government has taken many twists and turns.
Unfortunately, I must sadly inform you that a lack of political will on the part of the Chinese leadership to address the issue of Tibet in a serious manner has failed to produce any progress.
But the Chinese government is refusing to accept my delegation till today.
Whatever explanations Beijing may give concerning communications between the Chinese government and myself I must state here clearly that the Chinese government is refusing to talk to the representatives I have designated for the task.
I am a staunch believer in freedom and democracy and have therefore been encouraging the Tibetans in exile to follow the democratic process.
The elected chairman of the Cabinet and the elected parliament will shoulder the responsibility of running the Tibetan affairs as the legitimate representatives of the people.
It is clear now that only increased, concerted and consistent international efforts will persuade Beijing to change its policy on Tibet.
On my part, I remain committed to the process of dialogue.
Brothers and sisters of the European Parliament, I consider myself as the free spokesman for my captive countrymen and women.
We need your support to survive as a people and as a culture.
The global trend today is towards more openness, freedom, democracy and respect for human rights.
The consistent and principled engagement of the European Parliament with China will accelerate this process of change that is already taken place in China.
The numerous resolutions of the European Parliament on the issue of Tibet helped greatly to highlight the plight of the Tibetan people and raise the awareness of the public and governments in Europe and around the world of the issue of Tibet.
I am especially encouraged by the European Parliament' s resolution calling for the appointment of an EU special representative for Tibet.
I strongly believe that the implementation of this resolution will enable the European Union not only to help promote a peaceful resolution of the Tibetan issue through negotiations in a more consistent, effective and creative way but also provide support for other legitimate needs of the Tibetan people, including ways and means to preserve our distinct identity.
I have no doubt that your continued expressions of concern and support for Tibet will in the long run impact positively and help create the conducive political environment for a constructive dialogue on the issue of Tibet.
I ask for your continued support in this critical time in our country' s history.
I thank you for providing me the opportunity to share my thoughts with you. (The House rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation) As you can see, your Holiness, we are all very moved and I would like to thank you, on behalf of the European Parliament, for the great, noble message you have just addressed to us.
You have been kind enough to point out that the European Parliament has always supported your action and your people.
Thank you again, your Holiness, for your presence and your message. (Loud applause) (The formal sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
