Honduras (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Honduras.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, again I am pleased to contribute briefly to this debate on behalf of my colleague, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, as we look at the political crisis in Honduras.
The Commission declared it would be ready to support all initiatives aimed at a peaceful solution of the crisis and at restoring the constitutional order.
Following the events in Honduras and after consulting the Central American governments and EU Member States, it was decided to postpone the next round of negotiations with a view to an association agreement with Central America, negotiations that were due between 6 and 10 July in Brussels.
The President-in-Office of the Council has said so: the European Union must facilitate a return to democratic normality by supporting the efforts of a man who has been working to stabilise the situation in the region, namely the President of Costa Rica, Óscar Arias.
I agree with the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission that we must now support a negotiated settlement led by the Social Democrat President of Costa Rica, Óscar Arias, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, and not provoke any repressive or insurrectional violence.
It goes without saying that we also support all the work being done by the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, Mr Óscar Arias, and accordingly we also hope that, once the aforementioned measures are in place, elections can be held in November 2009 with full transparency and with total respect for the democratic system and for human rights.
I hope, too, that the current situation will also allow us to continue the negotiations in order to conclude the association agreement with the European Union.
Therefore, I not only strongly condemn the coup d'état against President Zelaya, but I also urge the European Union not to recognise the coup leader, Roberto Micheletti.
I hope that the European Union will also follow the same code of conduct - the same road map - so that any action carried out by that government will not be considered legitimate.
