Energy security (Nabucco and Desertec) (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on energy security in relation to the Nabucco and Desertec projects.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, energy will definitely continue to be the focus of this Parliament for the next five years.
In achieving all these goals, the external dimension is extremely important for two reasons.
The two projects mentioned in today's plenary are, in a way, complementary and at the same time fit well into the overall strategy.
The philosophies are different.
At the same time there is a clear understanding that EU companies are ready to buy the gas, and we are moving forward towards it.
We are well on track, and I believe this is a good example of cooperation between industry-driven projects with political support from the EU institutions.
Progress has been made, but we need to strengthen these measures.
It is a new initiative, which is still in its infancy, and we cannot say Desertec is part of our security of supply strategy.
I would like to conclude that the best security of supply measures we can take are inside the European Union.
There has also been very good progress on applications for the financing provided with the recovery plan, so the recovery plan was successful, in my opinion.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, we all agree to speak with one voice and have a common foreign policy on the security of energy supply.
However, we should not be too dependent on any one country, whichever country that may be, but we should diversify, and Nabucco is a good way of going about this.
I believe both projects are important, as they differ in terms of their timescales.
We also need to consider - and that would be a task for your successor, whether that is you or someone else - how we in Europe, on the one hand, can be in favour of a number of large projects, such as Nabucco and Desertec, while at the same time advocating the decentralisation of some of our electricity and energy production.
This has to stop.
This also applies to Europe in international relations.
We, too, need to open up this discussion again, but we must not declare nuclear power a taboo in this House.
I would therefore like to hear the Commission's opinion on this.
To put it more precisely, if we could introduce low energy standards or zero energy standards for our buildings then we would save more natural gas than Nabucco, South Stream and Nord Stream combined could import.
It is important that our resolution states that the cost-effective options of renewable energy, the energy efficiency strategy and energy saving in particular must be a central part of this policy.
With regard to energy policy, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also believe it is important not to forget human rights and to neglect the human rights dialogue when we discuss energy.
When we broaden our perspective to include Desertec or even the Arctic - as we do in our resolution - it is also important that we do this in a spirit of partnership rather than neo-colonialism.
Where possible it clearly makes sense to coordinate our response, but any unified EU policy would inevitably be skewed by those countries that are already in bed with Gazprom and related interests.
And we should not be handing yet another area of vital national interest to the European Commission, which sees every possible crisis as an opportunity to extend its competence.
Secondly, diversification of sources of supply requires greater commitment to Nabucco.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, energy security is quite rightly on the external policy agenda today.
Firstly, there needs to be a global switch to more renewable sources of energy, more energy efficiency and energy saving.
In other words, we do not need disputes about external energy policy - and certainly not if that is all we are going to do - but rather we need intelligently-provided, affordable energy for everyone.
Secondly, energy security must be part of a responsible peace and development policy for the EU.
The global energy supply is also part of crisis prevention and peace policies.
As energy suppliers - for example Nabucco - these countries are becoming of more and more interest to the EU, but I see no conflict prevention and sustainable development concept at a local level in these countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know for certain that demand for energy will increase and that European gas production is on a steady decline.
It is crucial for the Member States, and therefore Europe, to implement policies to ensure an abundant, secure supply.
On that basis, no competition exists between the various projects under way, such as, for example, Nabucco and South Stream.
For example, the supply of Russian gas to Europe has gone down from 75% in 1990 to 45% today.
The Nabucco project is therefore fine, and the South Stream project is fine.
However, Nabucco is 'cementing' relations between the people involved in this venture, establishing a strategic link between the European Union and Turkey.
The only thing for sure is that the EUR 8 billion investment will be a good deal for those involved in it.
However, we must try to reach a common position where the external aspects of energy security are concerned.
As regards internal policy, I fully agree with the Commissioner that the issues of renewable energy and energy saving, for example, are more important, as is research into new possibilities.
Desertec and Nabucco are important instruments in this regard.
However, we must recognise that we are dealing with countries that are not necessarily reliable and that, unfortunately, we cannot make a distinction between reliable and unreliable countries.
Interconnectivity, the issue of common gas stores - these things are important to ensure that the supply to any individual country cannot be shut off.
Much has already been done, but our overarching common security interest must be brought into line with economic interests in order to achieve the best possible solution.
However, to ensure a supply in all European Union countries, these efforts must be supplemented by supplies from the south of the continent.
As you know, Spain could become an important transit axis for Europe, thanks to its connection with Algeria via the Medgaz pipeline, which is already in an advanced stage of construction, and its six liquefied natural gas plants, whose capacity could be doubled if another emergency situation were to occur.
Desertec and Nabucco are central to meeting these challenges.
If we can convince Member States of the political need for greater energy independence, and stop Berlin and Paris from undercutting it at every turn, Nabucco can help us diversify our supply of oil and gas.
The motion for a resolution before us today says little about what we need to do here in the European Union.
We need to build high-voltage DC electricity distribution capacity through a smart grid - some EUR 50 billion of investment, but creating many jobs - and we need oil and gas storage facilities and, even more, a storage policy to reduce our dangerous dependence on Russia.
Wind could meet all the new electricity demand in China in the next 20 years and replace 23% of their coal generation.
But we, as Greens, are also realistic and realise that, in the medium term, we will need gas supplies.
Therefore, we are in favour of diversification and also see the Nabucco project as a European priority project.
In addition, our group strongly believes that all projects have to address concerns about transparency and corruption and cannot stand in the way of a frank and strict human rights dialogue with the cooperation countries, as well as a holistic and political approach to these countries. (PL) From the moment when the agreements on the construction of the Nabucco and South Stream projects were signed, a great race began.
The Commission is gravely mistaken in thinking that South Stream is not a rival project to Nabucco.
Competition between gas pipeline projects is not only a source of trouble, but is also a factor in tensions in Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia.
Having examined the capacity of this pipeline, we have established that, in order for it to be viable and efficient, it needs 31 billion cubic metres of gas a year.
As for Iran, to which you referred Commissioner, it will have stormy and possibly explosive relations with the European Union for a long time before it becomes a gas supplier.
In harmony with the new Italian-Russian remix, South Stream, the energy project of that name is, however, in danger of being scrapped.
The entire investment could be used to generate a total of 8 000 megawatts of wind energy.
We must be clearly aware of this when discussing Nabucco, which is undoubtedly one of the highest-priority projects in this sphere, along with Desertec.
We must also be clearly aware that there are countries in the European Union which rely not only on a single supplier, but also on a single supply route.
We expect the Commission to come up with its own proposal for increasing gas reserves within the European Union, which is very important, and for developing an interconnection system between Member States with a higher capacity, which is also a very important element in guaranteeing security both for citizens and for business in the European Union.
The project is being developed too slowly and in a lacklustre way, and we do not like the Commission's position, reiterated by Mr Landaburu a week ago, which stated that the Commission is neutral between South Stream and Nabucco.
The Commission should be in favour of Nabucco.
If we do not move quickly with Nabucco we will witness unpleasant events similar to those in Hungary where the Surgutneftegas company obtained a critical amount of shares in the Hungarian company MOL.
Whilst we must look outward for future energy supplies, Member States must also make the best use of the resources and potential they already have. (PT) Mr President, I have been listening carefully and would just like to raise three issues.
To finish, Mr President, I would like to make a third point.
We are talking today about two projects: Nabucco, a very tangible project that we can work on, and Desertec, an interesting project or an interesting idea or a vision and no one can yet judge precisely whether, where and how it can be put into effect.
We must also promote visionary projects, but we must guard against believing that there is only one solution to any particular problem or only one strategy for solving the problems.
These include, for example, the fact that we must not allow a very intensive debate on the CO2 problem to make us increasingly dependent on gas, which then brings us problems once again because we need new pipelines.
Member States must not be placed in a situation where they are at risk of being at the mercy of another state.
This of course applies to all of the large projects identified, but I would like to mention the Baltic Sea in particular, which is a large and sensitive inland sea.
We should also contribute to establishing a global market for LNG such as there is for oil and commodities.
The fact that Member States have different interpretations of, or interests in, energy security is also proven by the fact that some countries involved in Nabucco have also signed up for South Stream, thereby lowering Nabucco's credibility and the chances for a common European energy policy.
We also note, Commissioner, that there is less interest in Nabucco among the EU Member States, although this is not the case for all energy projects.
In the south, there is the South Stream project.
However, when it comes to Nabucco, all we hear are promises, but there is neither sufficient money nor political support.
I would like to know whether I can hold supporters of the Treaty of Lisbon to their word, namely that when the Treaty is ratified, they will cease to support the Nord Stream and South Stream projects.
If we continue to merely issue statements then, during future energy crises, when we send EU citizens pamphlets containing our resolutions, they will burn them. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Commissioner Piebalgs.
His statements just now confirm that South Stream is not Nabucco's competitor but a further contribution to the diversification of Europe's energy supply sources.
Based on these assumptions the development of different options is imperative, and South Stream is not an alternative to Nabucco, but in fact complements it.
The Commission regards the southern corridor as a series of projects including Nabucco, South Stream and the Turkey-Greece-Italy interconnection (ITG).
The diversification of sources, routes and supply countries is the real pillar of Europe's energy security policy and, leaving aside the political and economic interests of the various countries most directly involved, the South Stream-Nabucco challenge must be analysed with realism, not through the distorting prism of ideology but rather with a clear vision of what needs to be done. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, if we are to address the problem of our energy security in a reliable and viable manner, we need a global strategy which responds to the need to differentiate energy sources and adopt common rules in terms of transit countries, because our dependence on a single energy source is as bad as our dependence on a single transit country.
If we really want to become energy self-sufficient and independent in the long term, we need to promote energy efficiency and make the best possible use of renewable national energy sources. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on your integrated approach in this proposal.
As for gas, we are going to have a gas war.
We must therefore prepare to import gas.
We know the figures: 1 km2 of desert receives the equivalent of 1.5 million barrels of oil.
We know that we will solve our energy problems through human ingenuity and science, but in an ethical and moral way.
However, not all countries in the Caspian region are following the road to democracy and not all can be trusted.
The Desertec project is especially significant in that it points to the future.
When discussing energy security, too little attention is paid to renewable energy sources and, in particular, energy efficiency.
Financial and economic mechanisms should be established at EU level, which would encourage EU Member States and individual companies to save energy and switch to the newest and cleanest technologies and this would be a serious contribution to energy security and to combating climate change. (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, as a Latvian politician, I know very well what it means for a state to be energy dependent.
As a small country heavily dependent on energy supplies, we understand very well how expensive this dependence can be both for the end-consumer in terms of price and for the country as a whole in terms of potential political vulnerability.
The energy balance-sheet of every European Union Member State is different, but we are all concerned by one and the same question - the security of energy supply.
Russia is an important partner for the European Union in terms of gas supplies.
Some countries, such as Latvia, are even wholly dependent on supplies of gas from Russia, and with every year Europe's overall dependence on supplies from that country is tending to increase.
I consider it very important for Parliament to give special support for this project, for it will directly strengthen our common gas supply security.
Thank you for your attention. (HU) Mr President, first of all, allow me to express my thanks that I can speak in Hungarian in this House, which allows me to greet the Vice-President in this language.
In January, at the Nabucco conference held in Budapest in Hungary, Commissioner Pielbags stated for the first time that the European Union wants to offer political and financial support to the Nabucco project.
We will have to raise an estimated figure of some EUR 8 billion for the 3 300-kilometre pipeline.
The two most important tasks we have ahead of us then are to find some EUR 2 billion from the European Union budget and, secondly, to draw up those conditions which will make it easier and simpler for the project to access credit, and on better terms.
The original promise was for some EUR 30 million.
Yet that is precisely the point; until that time - that is, until we are able to speak with one voice - the efforts of many governments that are involved in complex operations such as Nord Stream and South Stream must be viewed not as in conflict with support for Nabucco but as part of the same strategy, in which we combine pragmatism with realism in order to put our citizens' interests first.
For that reason it is a definite 'Yes' from us to Nabucco, but just as definite is our decision to support the efforts made by our governments to ensure that diversification of supply guarantees the well-being of our populations. (RO) In 2008 the European Union posted a record commercial deficit of EUR 242 billion, mainly due to the increase in the price of imported energy.
The Nabucco project pipeline will pass through Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Austria and will provide the European Union with an annual supply of 30 billion cubic metres of natural gas from the Caspian Sea.
Desertec will use solar power from North Africa and will also include the implementation of a Mediterranean plan for capturing solar power and the construction of an electricity transmission network, which will link the European Union with the Middle East and North Africa.
As rapporteur for matters relating to the energy performance of buildings, I call on the EU to provide innovative financial instruments to boost the investments in the use of renewable energy sources and in improving energy efficiency, especially for buildings and in the transport sector. (RO) Nabucco will provide for a large part of the European Union's demand for gas.
The delay in launching the Nabucco project has been due, unfortunately, to the individual interests of certain Member States.
Member States must realise that it is not only the countries which the pipeline passes through or the commercial companies involved which will enjoy the benefits of this project, but all Europe's citizens whose national governments must guarantee their well-being and safety.
The mistakes which have led to this project being delayed must not be repeated in relation to securing sources of gas.
That is why we have projects such as Nord Stream, Blue Stream II and also South Stream.
The European Union is still too dependent, particularly on its gas imports, since by 2020 it will probably have to import approximately 80% of its gas.
The recent gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine is already several months behind us.
It is absolutely vital for those who have experienced shortages and those who fear them in the future to know how Europe will protect them from these possible new crises. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the present resolution makes clear once again the need to develop a consistent European foreign policy, including from the point of view of the security of energy supply.
In order to secure the long-term interests of Europe in this region too, I would therefore argue in favour of developing a pragmatic, long-term strategy, together with partners such as Norway and Iceland, with the aim of cooperating with Russia, the US and Canada to balance the various interests there, not only with regard to the common security of supply, but also environmental issues and access to the new ice-free transport routes.
This will also avoid the potential conflicts which could otherwise arise there in the rush to secure the energy sources that are still available. (NL) Mr President, Turkey has an important role to play in reducing Europe's dependence on Russia.
In the meantime, Turkey is playing two hands and is seeking to benefit both from the Nabucco project and from South Stream.
I call on the Council and the Commission to make an unambiguous choice for the Nabucco project.
This project would directly reduce our dependence on Russia and, given the slow decline in the demand for gas in Europe, it is in any case totally unnecessary to realise two southern supply routes.
It should not be the case that Turkey receives an entry ticket for the Union in exchange for being cooperative. (PL) The European Union needs suppliers whose business dealings remain transparent and who fulfil their obligations.
It should also encourage the Commission to take action, as soon as possible, to create a European energy security system.
We must develop the southern corridor and should consider the White Stream project, in addition to the Nabucco project, as a priority, but also with trans-Caspian and even trans-Saharan routes as exciting future prospects for the European Union.
As a result, we need all possible sources of supply, and we particularly need to coordinate all the actions of the Member States in order to optimise their contribution to our joint needs.
That is why I believe we should be spending more of European Structural Funds on energy efficiency measures to save energy, but also to boost the economy.
It should draw up, in cooperation with governments, the legal framework for providing effective protection against hostile takeovers.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, it would be difficult for me to answer all the questions raised, but I would like to emphasise a couple of points.
We work from the point of view that interdependence in energy supply is the most important thing and is beneficial for all - for suppliers, transit countries and consumers.
The motion for a resolution addresses exactly this issue because, although there is no in-built conflict between Member States, there is perceived conflict.
So we should follow this up and really try to build a system where we speak with one voice, not only verbally but also in terms of the points of view that we want to emphasise.
That is why we particularly support diversification projects like Nabucco and LNG - not that they completely change our relationship of interdependence with other countries, but they give us additional safety margins.
So that is what we are doing, but at the same time we definitely take note of what happens in the energy world.
I really believe that, from the Union point of view, we should build upon the cooperation of nuclear safety regulators and try to establish a safer and more coherent system.
Last but not least, I really believe that these issues and debates very much help to shape energy policy, but there is no single instrument that provides for it.
The Nabucco project must be made a priority as it provides a solution to the gas supply problem, which has intensified in recent years.
The EUR 200 million we are offering the project are welcome, but we also need to step up political and diplomatic measures with Turkey and the countries in the region supplying the gas.
I would therefore like to call for a show of solidarity by Member States in order to be able to avert gas crises similar to those that we have had in recent years.
in writing. - (BG) Unfortunately the EU still does not have an effective energy security policy.
In recent years the first steps have been taken in this direction, for which I would in particular like to congratulate Commissioner Piebalgs.
However, these processes are still too slow, particularly in the light of the particularly dynamic activity on the part of Russia and other competitors.
We need a much clearer and more active policy which must include some of the following strands: encouraging the completion of all projects involving the supply of gas to Europe, which can realistically secure market-based funding, including the Nord Stream and South Stream; encouraging the construction of new facilities which will contribute to energy independence and reduce CO2 emissions, in particular plants powered by nuclear and renewable sources of energy; developing common rules for the supply and transit of gas; an active policy towards the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus to secure supplies of Caspian gas for Europe. , in writing. - This debate has become an additional proof of how badly the EU needs a united energy policy.
The Commission should provide not only political and legal but also financial assistance to companies which are engaged in efforts to diversify our energy supplies.
in writing. - (RO) As we are at the start of a new mandate, I feel that one of the areas where the European Parliament must be more actively involved is safeguarding energy security.
Bearing this in mind, I want to highlight the importance of the Nabucco project, which will help safeguard the European Union's energy security as this will guarantee European consumers access to alternative sources via a secure route.
The signing of the agreement on 13 July 2009 between Austria, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey and Hungary on the Nabucco project, marking the political commitment of the partner states participating in this project to continue their efforts to construct the gas pipeline, has sent a positive signal to investors and the countries supplying natural gas.
in writing. - (RO) In addition to achieving number one position in the list of gas exporters, Russia has recently become the largest exporter of oil in the world, overtaking Saudi Arabia.
They have also demonstrated the added value Nabucco offers in this respect for the entire European Union.
Now, we have the French EDF company signing into South Stream.
