European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission on the European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation by Gerardo Galeote, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development (Ο-0076/2007/rev.1 - Β6-0008/2008).
This questionnaire was sent in March 2007 to all Member States via the networks of the members of the Committee for the Coordination of the Funds (COCOF).
We have six Member States that have adopted appropriate national rules: Hungary, the UK, Bulgaria, Portugal, Romania and Spain.
Of the remaining 17 Member States, 15 have already launched either the parliamentary or the government adoption procedure.
They are expected to respect the deadline of mid-February as fixed in the Director General's letter, which was sent to all the Member States, in which we request information on the communication on the adoption of the procedures of the rules by the deadline of 14 February.
In the same letter, in which we gave this deadline of mid-February to those Member States that still have to inform us whether they have adopted or what the calendar of the adoption is, we also inform the Member States of the preparation process for the interinstitutional EGGC seminar, which, together with Parliament and the Committee of the Regions, will be held on 19 June in Brussels under the Slovene Presidency.
This is a regulation of direct applicability in all 27 Member States, which requires some additional action from the Member States and not merely the adoption of the implementing rules.
After 14 February, when we have received the responses of individual Member States - especially those whose agenda for adopting the necessary regulations we do not yet know - on which any decision of the Commission to start infringement procedures will depend, we will consider our position again and see where the infringement procedure will start.
But let me say - and I think this is a very important part of this whole process - that, in the mean time, the first EGGC was established last Monday between France and Belgium, although the national rules have not yet been adopted, because this regulation is directly applicable and regional and local authorities have the right to set up the groupings.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Commissioner, I had the honour to be the rapporteur on the regulation that established the European grouping of territorial cooperation as part of the European legal system.
Commissioner, I can say today with pride that my country, Spain, and my region, Galicia, together with the northern region of Portugal, are pioneers in this and a blueprint which other European regions can follow.
In order for the regulation to be applied effectively, it is necessary to adapt the national legislation in an appropriate manner in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.
Thank you very much. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, let me say how pleased I am to speak on this subject this evening, because when we considered this addition, tabled by Mr Olbrycht, I expressed my confidence in the report.
We are now expecting that the 70 000 French people who work in Luxembourg every day, the 30 000 French people who work in Monaco and Italy, as well as in Spain and so on, will really be able to foster new forms of cooperation with the EGTC.
By 1 August 2007, all Member States were to have enacted supplementary legal and/or administrative provisions.
The fact that only five or six Member States have adopted national rules gives us cause for serious concern.
Now, unfortunately, six months after the deadline, local and regional bodies have not managed to set up a territorial cooperation grouping because Member States have unjustifiably neglected to take or have delayed taking appropriate measures to implement the regulation.
More is the pity, then, that the Member States have not transposed this useful Regulation into their legislation in spite of the fact that this should have happened by 1 August 2007.
This is a good thing and for that reason I urge the Council and the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure implementation of this Regulation in the individual Member States. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, the European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation is a new tool to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the Union.
Galicia Council and the authorities in the northern region of Portugal, which had finished drawing up the draft agreement and statutes in November 2006, will soon form a grouping which will cover 6 400 000 inhabitants and will have its seat in Vigo.
Also, any project can use this tool for the implementation of the project and, as we know, we can have new projects until the end of 2013.
Concerning the Madrid Convention, we should remember that it has taken 20 years so far to ratify this convention and, if I remember correctly, not all of our Member States have ratified the Convention yet.
The debate is closed.
Working out a common position of 27 countries at European level is in fact only the beginning of a laborious process of harmonisation and implementation of the principles adopted.
