rapporteur. - (ES) Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Kallas, we are finally reaching the end of the budgetary procedure for 2005, which was preceded by its drawing up, its approval, its execution and, subsequently, its discharge.
I must say that, from a budgetary point of view, 2005 has not been a bad year.
I would also like to point out that the Commission has reacted well to the report by the Court of Auditors and has moved forward several lines of its new action plan which I hope will allow for positive control over the coming years.
They were created in 2003 and they are intended to offer a guarantee that Member States have effective auditing systems for Community spending.
Furthermore, they should be signed by someone with a degree of authority at national level and, though the Treaty states that the European Commission is responsible for managing the budget, we must not forget that 80% of it is managed in the Member States.
We support what we believe to be the courageous initiatives of certain Member States - and I point in particular to the Netherlands and the United Kingdom - which have launched, within the Council, these ideas on national control declarations which may not be followed by other Member States, since their territorial distribution and organisation is different.
As a fundamental idea, however, we in the European Parliament want these national declarations to go ahead, because that will be the only way to provide the Member States with some genuine responsibility for control of Community funds, which is the true basis for this statement of discharge.
Finally, Mr President, although my report covers other things, I believe that we could achieve a positive DAS over the coming years, which is necessary for the Community institutions and, in particular, crucial for public opinion, which wants to see reliability, transparency and control right down to the last euro of the public funds managed both by the Commission and by the Member States.
In fact, I think that Mrs Grässle's amendment is at odds with what we approved last year with the Ferber report.
There is now a dispute about this very point in Brussels, and the sum involved is around EUR 15 million.
My third point - a very thorny issue - is the voluntary pension fund, which, at the moment, suffers an actuarial shortage of EUR 28.8 million.
This voluntary pension fund, as it stands, contains the total sum of EUR 202 million, which has been invested in the stock market.
In the 2005 Budget, Parliament boosted this voluntary pension fund by EUR 11.4 million.
This year's discharge focussed particularly on the question of the questionable use of weighting, not only by the Committee of the Regions, but also in other institutions.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I should like to present my opinion on the discharge of the 16 EU agencies for 2005.
However, there are still areas for improvement.
The European Parliament should ask the Commission to present a report every five years on the added value of every existing agency.
Let me underline that all EU agencies are undergoing a discharge procedure but in two different ways.
The 16 agencies with which we are dealing today are to receive individual discharge, while the rest are to be discharged within the framework of the Commission's budget.
However, there is a considerable lack of transparency in the management of those agencies receiving discharge within the framework of the Commission's accounts only.
In order to maintain the Commission's co-responsibility and to increase the transparency and clarity of the discharge procedure for all agencies, I call on the European Court of Auditors to create a new chapter in its annual report that covers all EU agencies.
Finally, I should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues for their work, as well as the Secretariat.
When I appeared before the Committee on Budgetary Control on 1 March to discuss the draft Garriga Polledo report, I said that I would propose to my colleagues in the Commission a very careful analysis of the issues leading to reserves in the declarations of the directors-general this year and, depending on the importance of the problems and the risk identified, suspend payments or apply financial corrections.
The first important report from the Greek authorities is due on 15 May.
Under the latest decision taken last week, a total of EUR 285.3 million is being recovered from 14 Member States for reasons relating in particular to insufficiencies in controls as well as the non-respect of payment deadlines by Member States.
If no, or insufficient, action is taken, a flat-rate correction ranging from 5 to 10 % or 25 % of the amounts paid out and specific to each programme will be decided by the Commission to address the infringement of the rules and the extent and financial implications of the remaining shortcomings.
In 2005, for example, DG Regio had reservations on the adequacy of control systems in Spain.
We have therefore made great efforts again this year to improve the quality of the annual activity reports of Commission directorates-general.
There will be 300 audits for FP6 in 2007, compared with 45 carried out in 2006.
Public acceptance of this is to a very large degree dependent on the impression not being communicated that this is about this or that potentate getting their bath taps gilded, but rather that the money really does get to the people who actually need it, and so this is what we have scrutinised in very considerable depth.
The statement that this is all tied together with there being so many donors and institutions to coordinate is reassuring only to a very limited degree.
The Committee on Culture and Education was much more ambitious and regrets that Parliament, the Commission and the Council have not as a whole made more funding available for what we want, which is to give Europe a soul, to enable all students to study in Europe, and, with that in mind, the Lisbon Strategy requires that changes be made in these areas over the next few years.
Speaking in very general terms, I would like to say that it is crucial, particularly in the major cultural and youth programmes, that we should, on the one hand, pursue a very careful - that is to say, a responsible and transparent - expenditure policy, while also, at the same time, refraining from excessive use of the existing rules in going down bureaucratic dead ends.
Particularly when projects are small and account for only some EUR 20 000, applicants should not be required to submit reams of paper in order to get their applications accepted.
My second observation is that, if we have 99 national cultural agencies, things will get out of hand in no time, and this is where better management would be desirable.
The third thing I want to say is that I take the view that our still funding this second parliament in Strasbourg through our Budget is the wrong way to go about it.
There are many agencies involved, some of which Mrs Haug has mentioned already and, generally speaking, our observations are the same.
We stand at 79.8% for 2005 compared to 80.3% for 2004.
Mrs Haug has mentioned others that appear to be in the same situation.
With regard to the execution of the budget for Eurojust (the European judicial cooperation body), we note that the Court of Auditors has reasonable guarantees that the annual accounts for this financial year have been reliable and, with regard to the corresponding operations, that they are all legal, as they should be, and regular.
This situation poses various problems: that of the financial control of these agencies and that of the organisational weaknesses observed, which are not always resolved.
Indeed, 16 out of 35 agencies now receive individual discharge from Parliament.
In order to prevent the current inconsistencies in the application of Article 185 of the Financial Regulation - since many agencies now receive an overall discharge under the general budget of the European Commission - it would be appropriate if, in the future, all the agencies, whatever their status, were to receive an individual discharge from the European Parliament.
The second aspect that I should like to mention concerns the effective administration of the agencies.
To conclude, I should like to stress that, even though the Court of Auditors has reservations about three agencies, I am delighted that the agencies have, on the whole, improved on the 2004 exercise, and I call on them to continue their efforts along these lines.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DA) Mr President, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament recommends granting discharge.
I also recognise that the integrated financial control system, in particular in relation to agricultural funds, has been implemented for a large proportion of the budget, and that is clearly a very positive thing.
The fact is that around 80% of EU funds, as Members are aware, are administered via shared management, meaning that it is out in the Member States that the money is actually put to use.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs, and I can assure them that the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe shares their view.
We have once again received a negative verdict from the Court of Auditors, for the twelfth time in a row, and everyone knows, of course, that things cannot go on like this.
In 2008, it will be ten years ago, in 1998, when Parliament refused to grant discharge.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, today this House will decide whether to discharge the budget for the institutions of the European Union for 2005.
Secondly, I would like to join those voices that can be heard coming both from the Court of Auditors and from this House demanding greater transparency on the use and management of EU funds.
There is now a concrete action plan; the Commissioner has made it quite plain that he is prepared to suspend payments if Greece fails to meet the conditions or carry out the action plan correctly.
I also support Mr Mulder in his question to the Commission as to what measures it has taken to ensure that the Member States issue national management declarations.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, the Court of Auditors has not delivered a favourable statement of assurance on the Union's accounts for ten years.
Parliament's view has always been that the Member States should issue a statement on the management at national level of the funds they receive from the Union.
There are therefore now still stronger reasons for not granting the Committee of the Regions discharge this year.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - Madam President, I believe the Council of Ministers should consider as a matter of urgency appointing a team of genuinely independent, internationally respected accountants to carry out a full-scale investigation and analysis of the audit of this institution, its treasury, its accounting systems and controls and all its operational institutions as well, many of which trade commercially and yet routinely escape the full vigour of the law in their financial and business management.
We now know, for instance, that the EU has lost some EUR 600 billion over the years, which far exceeds the UK's net contribution of GBP 75 billion since we joined.
The President of the Court of Auditors has admitted that there are serious ongoing problems: every annual report spells them out, page after page, and nothing much actually happens as a result.
Yet their interests are ignored year after year.
In 2002, for instance, the difference was EUR 200 million.
Last year, it was EUR 179 million, which is not much of an improvement over four years.
That we do not do likewise is something I regard as extremely regrettable and damaging, and I am sure, Commissioner, that you share my view that across-the-board cutbacks are called for, since it is not a matter of doubt that greater efficiency is achieved by having fewer workers rather than the opposite, which is currently the case. (NL) Madam President, I will confine myself to remarks pertaining to the European Parliament.
We support his proposal to grant discharge, and we also support most of his remarks and comments made in this connection.
I should also like to draw your attention to the amendments that Mr Fjellner has tabled, and I have co-signed, on the actual costs of maintaining three places of meeting at a time when we have 27 Member States.
For the first time since I was elected, you managed to grant discharge that did not lead to major controversy the week before.
It is unfortunate that in this procedure it is a rule rather than an exception that we have to keep asking for the same things over and over again - not only such things as electronic signatures or for red tape in this House to be reduced, but also matters of importance such as the question of to whom we actually grant discharge.
However, we are very puzzled that the PPE-DE Group has tabled four amendments - 79, 80, 81 and 83 - that would delete other useful parts of this report.
Mrs De Lange, who just spoke for the PPE-DE Group, baffles me.
I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors, whose reports have given us a great deal of information on how the budget is drawn up.
OLAF recommends not only disciplinary action, but even criminal prosecution.
It is incredible to think that we are once again about to grant discharge to the Committee of the Regions. (CS) Madam President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs and to make a few comments, both general and specific, based on my personal experience.
Firstly, point 1 states that not all agencies always have good a reputation.
One final comment: I am firmly in favour of point 25 and I am delighted to say that the agency has improved its communications, and that greater use is being made of its expertise, in particular by SMEs.
In other words, 80% of the funds are managed by Member States.
One is an environmental impact assessment of the cost of the three seats and the other is the cost of the three seats of the European Parliament. (PT) Madam President, I should like to congratulate all of the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
I must say that I too am unable to find these amounts and I should like to point out that next year this issue must be tackled totally differently; otherwise, we shall have to take a much harder line. (FI) Madam President, the administration of EU funds is quite an awkward task.
Moreover, EU funds, as we know, are mainly managed by the national authorities.
I would also like to say a word of thanks to the Court of Auditors - which we see as a very important institution - and to the people who work in it, who have done a good job, on whom we rely, and on whom we will continue to rely over the coming years.
I have to tell the Commissioner that we still have work to catch up on, and there is something to which we should perhaps give priority, in that you still owe us information on the figures and the recovery of funds, which we have not as yet been able to get a grip on.
We think it would be very important that you should tell this House on which figures we can then rely, for there are at least four that have been doing the rounds over the past six or eight weeks.
Turning to this House's budget, we have tabled deleting amendments in relation to the pension fund, not because we object to it and want to say something about its substance, but because we do not want to pre-empt the work of the working party that we jointly appointed, for why should we now want to impose restrictions on its work?
Far from pre-empting whatever might emerge later on these topics, they give the group a chance to do what it thinks to be right. (DE) Madam President, congratulations are in order to our rapporteurs, for the taxpayers attach importance to seeing that this House is doing a respectable job of work when it comes to the protection of their money.
I am perfectly well aware - and I think this is what Mrs Gräßle wanted to say - that it is always rather difficult to filter out what the real priorities are when a large number of people are sounding off about what they would like to see done, but it is precisely this technical problem that our committee sees as a challenge.
We have noted what you said about the absence of certain parties. (LT) I would like to support the views expressed by Edit Herczog about agencies, and I would stress that compared with last year it can be clearly seen that there is more fiscal discipline in this area.
If in 1990 we had three agencies, now, along with the executive agencies, we have 23.
My dear friend Herbert Bösch, ladies and gentlemen of the German press who are following our proceedings, Frankfurter Allgemeine, Die Welt, where is the Council?
Under the Treaties, the Commission stipulates that the Commission is responsible for managing the budget, but we know 80%, as other colleagues have said, is managed by the Member States.
It is logical that no statement of assurance will be given until the Member States produce their national declarations.
I welcome the Presidency of the Council coming at least at the end of our debate, because this refers to the Presidency and its responsibility in enabling national declarations to be done.
Obviously, in the interinstitutional agreement we have made some progress in asking Member States to have national declarations.
First of all, thank you all for your comments.
A pilot study is under way and it is difficult to collect information about policies linked to gender issues.
In the year 2005, the amount was EUR 90 805 147.47, which is 0.09% of our budget.
Also, I must say to Mr Seppänen that the accounts for 2006 have already been signed by our chief accounting officer.
Secondly, national declarations were the main issue on which many participants touched, saying that there are problems with the shared management of EU funds.
Article 53b says that Member States should produce an annual summary at the appropriate national level of the available audits and declarations.
The main problem here, visible throughout all these discussions, is that this must be done in such a way as to provide evidence for the Court of Auditors.
I would like to make one last point on an issue raised by some Members.
It is an important debate, given that 80% of the resources spent by the Commission and the Member States are discussed, as various speakers have already pointed out.
The debate is closed.
