Conclusion of a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EC and the Republic of Tajikistan (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the Council and Commission statements on the conclusion of a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EC and the Republic of Tajikistan and the recommendation by Alojz Peterle, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tajikistan, of the other part (12475/2004 - 11803/2004 - C6-0118/2005 -.
Madam President, honourable Members, Commissioner, Mr Peterle, I am pleased to have the opportunity this afternoon to discuss the EU's links with Tajikistan and, in particular, the importance we place on laying a new foundation for our relations with the country by entering into a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
Consequently, we have a great interest in supporting Tajikistan, both for its own sake and in order to solve our common problems.
At the same time, we need to make progress on issues relating to democracy, good social management and human rights in the region.
The second round of this dialogue will take place in Dushanbe on 23 September.
This strategy accords well with our commitment in Afghanistan and our work on stabilising that country.
The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement provides us with a framework within which we can develop our bilateral relations further and thereby contribute to the overall goals of our strategy for the whole of Central Asia.
I therefore call on this Parliament to vote in favour of the Agreement, so that it can enter into force as soon as possible.
Since the EU Strategy for Central Asia was adopted in June 2007, our relationships with all the countries of Central Asia have been deepening to our mutual benefit.
As you all know, our cooperation with Tajikistan is currently still governed by the trade and cooperation agreement concluded with the USSR in 1989 and endorsed by Tajikistan in 1994.
This is a country which shares a nearly 1 500 km border with Afghanistan, and which lies close to the Swat Valley in Pakistan.
The European Parliament's assent to the PCA today will help us to continue to work with Tajikistan on a whole range of political and economic reforms, with a special focus on democracy and human rights, and also to ensure their thorough implementation.
The decision to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Communities, their Member States and Tajikistan is in line with the European Council Strategy for a New Partnership with Central Asia and Tajikistan's clear will to develop broad cooperation with the European Union, in trade and many other fields.
The EU also wishes to deepen its relations with Tajikistan, thereby contributing to the security, stability and economic progress of this country and the development and consolidation of its democratic institutions, as well as to the protection of human rights and the rule of law.
That being said, the report also welcomes the commencement of dialogue on human rights, the progress of which is essential for the development of bilateral relations.
I firmly believe that, with this agreement, the European Union will be able to build on and deepen the cooperation which it has had with Tajikistan to date, and I hope that this will be the spirit in which this agreement is implemented in the near future.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Alojz Peterle, on his highly factual and - I would like to stress - very balanced report on the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and Tajikistan.
However, we do need to take into account the fact that Tajikistan has recently made progress both in combating corruption and improving the human rights situation, as well as various other sensitive areas.
Moreover, Tajikistan, which is a country that can surprise us but which is often described as an outpost of Europe, is not on the periphery of the world - just as none of the other countries in Central Asia, Afghanistan being the main one, are either.
It is in this country that some very important battles are being fought in relation to drugs trafficking, the fight against authoritarianism and fundamentalism, and the establishment of the rule of law and democracy, which are, unfortunately, still very fragile.
It was also excellent to hear that an ombudsman's institution had been established in Tajikistan.
Central Asia is a region vital to the EU's political and energy security.
Favouring some countries in Central Asia over others risks creating a discord and division in the region.
The ISAF mission in Afghanistan is vital to Tajikistan's long-term future and its desire to find a security anchor westwards.
He clearly stated that, when it entered into force, it would pave the way for cooperation with the border security agency (Frontex) and for numerous immigration regulations, such as within the framework of readmission agreements and border security with Afghanistan.
The 1 200 km long border between Tajikistan and Afghanistan has already been addressed here.
I believe it is a big step forward in the cooperation between the European Union and Tajikistan, which is a very important country for several reasons.
I see there are still many limitations and colleagues underlined the problems in Tajikistan in terms of human rights, poverty and so on, but I believe this agreement is Europe at its best and I am very much in favour of it. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, believe that this cooperation agreement with Tajikistan really is very positive and can help to achieve what I believe are some important and precise objectives.
The second objective, I believe, is and must be to encourage the growth of that country from an economic and social point of view, because we know that it is one of the poorest countries in the region.
However, the stability of Central Asia is in the interests of the region itself, in our interests, and in the strategic interests of the world as a whole.
All the countries in the world are interlinked like a connecting vessel, which is why we also need to demonstrate our maturity by ensuring that all the countries in this region are given equal attention, regardless of their size, stage of development or how much energy wealth they possess.
For this reason, I would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commission, as well as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and the Swedish Presidency, for finally consigning this delay to the past.
I believe concluding this agreement will be a good idea, as it is a step in the right direction.
The border stretches for 1500 kilometres.
It is a fact that Europe can no longer sustain these migratory movements via Tajikistan and from Afghanistan and other countries, a fact which primarily the Mediterranean countries, such as Malta, Cyprus, Greece and Italy, are paying for now, but which it is certain, with mathematical precision, will be paid for at a later date by all the countries of northern Europe.
Madam President, as Mr Peterle says in his excellent report, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is part of a greater strategy for increased regional stability in Central Asia.
Mr Peterle deals with all this very systematically in his report.
The EU is supporting the region to the tune of EUR 66 million up to 2010 and EUR 70 million in the three-year period thereafter.
I am very pleased that the House is unanimous as regards the importance of taking this step of a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
It will provide us with a better tool to use in our work on improving stability and resolving these problems and with which to conduct an active dialogue with the country on human rights and democracy.
On the contrary, I think we should engage with this poorest country of Central Asia.
For that, we have introduced BOMKA, the border management programme.
The new partnership and cooperation agreement will provide us with an instrument to deepen our dialogue with Tajikistan in this field, and there is the human rights clause.
A positive vote will send a strong signal to Tajikistan that the European Union honours its commitments under our Central Asia Strategy.
I am pleased to see that Parliament stands united, once again, in this debate and that it has the will to forge a stronger and tighter partnership with Tajikistan.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 September 2009.
If it is established in the report presented to today's plenary session of the European Parliament that the proposed agreement will help to reinforce and consolidate the Union in Tajikistan and Central Asia from a political, economic and commercial perspective, then I would like urgently to draw your attention to the following considerations which I share with many other people.
The proclaimed war on terrorism cannot be conducted in the area in question without cooperation from Russia and other neighbouring states.
