It would be very timely to discuss this even in more depth - not now, but later on - because on 11 July this year the Commission adopted a White Paper on sport.
This is done in the light of the declaration annexed to the Amsterdam Treaty, the so-called Nice Declaration of the European Council in 2000, and the White Paper on Sport, which specifically mentions, as action number 9 in the Pierre de Coubertin Action Plan, 'to complete the analysis of rules requiring that teams include a certain quota of locally training players'.
In 2006, the Commission launched a study on sport academies in Member States, including the issue of home-grown players.
Concerning the second part of the question - because it consists of two sentences on the specificity of sport - Chapter 4 of this White Paper develops the concept of specificity of sport within the limits of existing EU competences.
The study has not been completed, because we do not have all the data we would like to have.
It is very important that partners from Member States' associations, federations, clubs and leagues, work with us.
Hopefully in a foreseeable time - I would like it to be early next year - we will be able to give a definitive answer.
In two weeks' time we will meet with all stakeholders from the world of sport in Brussels to debate the content and implementation of the White Paper.
Before we take any decision - not only in this area, which is quite specific - we have to carry out a thorough analysis and then take real decisions. (DE) Commissioner, without wanting to offend the Commission or the Court of Justice, I have the feeling that neither our judges nor our Commissioners, or the female members of the Commission, are seen very often at a football ground.
Member of the Commission. - I am sure that something really will be done.
If we come forward, not just with a paper in hand, but to offer actions - and there are 53 actions offered under the name of the Pierre de Coubertin Action Plan - then we can do a lot.
I would say a sports forum, which we will organise under the Portuguese Presidency, could be one of the answers for permanent or regular transparent and credible dialogue on all problems and possible solutions, whether on a small scale, in Europe or in broader international cooperation. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, in his letter Michel Platini, President of UEFA, asks the leaders of the 27 EU Member States to intervene by dealing with the rising wealth of football clubs, which are spending ever more on players and other purchases, thus turning football into a business rather that a sport with values.
Member of the Commission. - First of all, I cannot confirm that there is a lot of illegal timber being brought into the European Union, but what I can clearly say is that, so far, there has been a very limited amount of biofuels coming into the European Union.
I have no doubts whatsoever about that, because the general performance by customs within the European Union has been very positive. (DE) Commissioner, what has just been mentioned is a problem.
Member of the Commission. - There are definitely some countries that are interested more in the international trade in biofuels - particularly Brazil; that is true, but the Doha Round of negotiations is much broader than that.
But now negotiations really have to get down to specifics.
But, very briefly, you spoke about the developing countries and you mentioned, as part of that, Brazil and India.
Member of the Commission. - In defining when winter starts, in my calendar it is December, but so be it.
I am not going into a discussion on whether Brazil is a developed or developing country when we talk about the mix of agriculture and industrial products, but it is obvious that, in the agricultural sector - and in biofuels, which were discussed just a few minutes ago - Brazil is a very competitive country.
I would just like to ask you if this is so, and, if it is, could you give us any information?
But even more important than the tariffs is the way that we treat our sensitive products.
So I can only encourage you to keep a close eye on the way to treat sensitive products as this will be key in the final game. (DE) I do understand that we have to deal with these negotiations on quota prices etc., but what I do not see here is the negotiation or dissemination of what Europe represents, the dissemination of our way of life.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is still of the opinion that there is a window of opportunity for a positive outcome of the Doha negotiations in the very close future, as I mentioned in my previous answer.
What we are now presenting - or what we will be presenting on 20 November - is the health check of the agricultural policy, and this is not a new reform.
Subject: Amendment of the CMO in wine On 4 July 2007 the Commission unveiled a proposal for a Council regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine.
This correction was not made to the detriment of the amounts allocated to other Member States, meaning that we did not cut other amounts to find money for these three Member States, so we simply increased the total budget.
This makes it possible to share Community support equitably by taking into account, on the one hand, the respective reductive capacity of each Member State and, on the other hand, effective implementation of the new measures proposed within the framework of the reform. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, at a time when the Commission believes that it is necessary within the framework of the law to make structural changes for some Member States, is it examining the possibility of reacting in a similar way to help Greek wine-growers recently hit by the catastrophic fires?
I can only say we cannot solve the problems of the forest fire within the CMO for wine.
Member of the Commission. - First of all, I can again only express my sympathy with all the people that have been hit by the consequences of the fires.
Concerning the specific question on non-governmental organisations, monasteries or environmental bodies, the Commission does not have the possibility to directly support these for the purpose of environmental restoration activities.
I want just to mention some specific possibilities in our rural development policy which could be used to help as well.
So, without asking anyone, you can actually pay direct to the farmer up to EUR 6 000 to help immediately, if necessary.
Member of the Commission. - As I mentioned, you have two possibilities within the programmes.
Her question refers clearly in the first instance to research funded by the European Union and in my answer I shall deal with these aspects.
However, the need for increased investment in research at national as well as European level, private even more than public, is central to achieving the Lisbon goals.
But before turning to the four aspects of the honourable Member's question, I should like to recall that European Union cohesion policy, especially the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, also makes an important contribution to the development of the European research area.
But, in the second place, at a more global level, in 2008 the Commission will organise the ex-post evaluation of FP6.
Member of the Commission. - The ITER project, as the honourable Member knows, is a project which is an international flagship of the world fusion energy research programme.
The ITER project extends this principle from the European to the global level of cooperation.
Since the signature of the ITER Agreement in November 2006, the ITER partners have all handled properly the commitments that they accepted through the ITER negotiations.
In the European Union, a joint undertaking for ITER and the development of fusion energy was established by the Council Decision of 27 March 2007.
It is the nature of experiments that the results cannot be forecast with certainty.
There was never such cooperation in the world as we have gathered in ITER. (FI) Commissioner, our experience of one particular cooperation project, Galileo, is bad.
Member of the Commission. - That is certainly correct.
The Commission is performing an assessment of regulatory aspects in relation to health, safety and environmental aspects of nanotechnology-based products.
Finally, I would like to mention another Eurobarometer survey, which was about new technologies and was carried out in 2005 on a sample of 25 000 people.
What I can say is that we are doing everything possible in research to try to analyse the potential risks that you mentioned, and this is certainly something done under my responsibility. (DE) Commissioner, where will the focus be in the nanotechnology sector in the Seventh Framework Programme for Research?
However, Community legislation addresses the problem in several ways.
A 92 km section to the north of Bucharest has already been built.
The bridge should be completed in 2010.
The cost of the work to be carried out up to 2013 comes to EUR 320 million, out of a total of EUR 1 380 million for the entire line.
The Stuttgart 21 project that you mentioned is a major link in this priority project.
The Commission is keeping a close eye on the modernisation of the sections between Stuttgart and Ulm.
In July 2005 it appointed a European coordinator for this line, Mr Péter Balázs, who has already submitted his second report.
In his report, the coordinator analysed the progress of the Paris-Bratislava priority project and concluded that most of the project could be completed in 2015.
In July 2007 Member States submitted their proposals for Community cofinancing.
Those are the answers I wanted to give you, Mr Posselt.
The state also owes money to Olympic Airways, a very large amount.
In total, Olympic Airways is demanding more than EUR 1 billion from the Greek state.
