Afghanistan: one year after the Bonn Agreement The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Afghanistan, one year after the Bonn Agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now a year since the Bonn Agreement was signed in 2001 and, as we look back over what has already been done and what has yet to be done in order to ensure it is fully implemented, I would point out that this Agreement laid the foundations for a new, modern Afghan state and that there is cause for reserved satisfaction with the progress it has made so far.
On 22 December 2002, Afghanistan and its six neighbours signed the Kabul Declaration of Good Neighbourly Relations, in which they agreed not to interfere in each other's internal affairs; this will do a great deal to foster peace and stability in the region.
Generally speaking, President Karzai and the Afghan Transitional Administration have achieved substantial results and the Bonn Process is on the right track.
During the Petersberg Conference on 2 December reaffirming the commitment to supporting the Bonn Agreement on Afghanistan and inject new impetus into efforts to rebuild the country, a declaration was issued containing a clear reference to the objectives and timetable for applying the Bonn Process, introducing a new constitution and holding elections in 2004.
Both the Afghan Transitional Administration and the international community, however, still have a great many challenges to meet between now and then.
The whole idea behind the Bonn Agreement was that transitional arrangements should be based on traditional, local, national and religious structures in Afghanistan.
And every effort must be made to ensure there is proper representation, in accordance with rules introduced by the central administration.
One way of supporting the central administration is to ensure that all aid is channelled through it; this will affirm its authority to the entire country and ensure that neighbouring countries and local leaders are on board.
Security continues to be a priority and we feel that all the Afghan groups should be encouraged to solve their grievances in a peaceful manner.
As part of this, we need to encourage the Tokyo donors to make the promised funds available through the national investment budget presented by the Afghan administration.
Our terms are geared to achieving the aims of the Bonn Agreement and, by extension, ensuring all sides in Afghanistan comply with the procedure set up to achieve peace, a representative government and stability, convict terrorists and stop the illicit production and trafficking of narcotics.
Unless democratic values, pluralism and the respect for human rights, including women's rights, are strengthened, there can be no social or political development in Afghanistan.
During 2003, President Karzai will need to push through the reforms needed for fast reconstruction and rebuilding, curtail the powers of local leaders, draft a modern, working constitution based on the principles of honest administration, convene a constituent Loya Jirga and start preparations for elections in 2004, so that the Afghan people can realise their aspirations for peace and progress in Afghanistan and determine their own future, free from violence and fear.
We have reiterated the European Union's continued commitment to delivering a substantial contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
As I said to the Foreign Affairs Committee in December, the changes have been in many respects dramatic, and do offer a real chance to build a stable democracy.
But before turning to the substantial challenges that lie ahead, I would like to say something about the successes of 2002, successes accomplished in extremely difficult circumstances.
Much has since been achieved in Afghanistan.
In the summer, President Karzai was elected by an Emergency Loya Jirga to lead the Afghanistan Transitional Authority; constitutional and judicial commissions have been established; a new currency has been introduced, and the process of recovery and of reconstruction is well under way with increasingly strong leadership from the Afghan Government.
By early December, EUR 755 million of the total European Union commitment of over EUR 830 million had actually been disbursed.
The Commission has played a leading role in co-ordinating the European Union effort and we have been actively involved in building up a strategic dialogue on Afghanistan with the United States and other G-8 partners.
I must say that I am very proud of the quality of the EC assistance programme and the speed with which it has been delivered.
In more concrete terms, our development programme of over EUR 205 million in 2002 has helped to finance: firstly, the operation of 238 health clinics and over 450 primary schools as part of the Government's 2002 Back to School campaign; secondly, the clearance of landmines and unexploded bombs from more than 8 000 square kilometres of land; thirdly, the return of some 17 000 key public sector workers, including the return to service of over 2 000 teachers and 2 000 nurses and doctors and fourthly, the creation of jobs.
Through our rural recovery and urban rehabilitation programmes, we are financing over 3 million person days of work this year alone, and I should also refer to the rebuilding of infrastructure.
In addition, our humanitarian aid has helped to support the return of over 1.8 million refugees to Afghanistan.
The Commission will continue to play a leading role.
Frankly, when I look back, I think if we had done more of it in the 1980s and 90s, we would not have the problems that we have had recently in Afghanistan.
Success in 2003 will hinge on three key issues.
First, the need to improve internal security.
Second, the need to ensure human rights are fully respected, including those of women and minorities.
When I visited Kabul last year, one of the most moving visits that I paid was to a school in the extraordinary bomb site that is southern and western Kabul, where young women had returned to schooling for the first time in six years and were sitting in classrooms without blackboards, without textbooks, being taught physics.
The third key issue for us is the need for continued long-term commitment from donors and for effective coordination.
The argument about coordination is one which has been extremely well made by Members of this Parliament, and I will say another word about it a little later if I may.
In this context, I would like to express my strong concern about the death of one aid worker, and the serious injury of two others, in Kabul just before Christmas.
I think sometimes we underestimate the amounts of courage and commitment which are required for aid workers working in these sort of circumstances.
President Karzai's commitment at the 2 December Bonn II Conference to form an Afghan National Army is a welcome step forward, as is the recent signing of the Kabul Declaration on good-neighbourly relations.
In the meantime, the international community must do everything possible to support President Karzai and to strengthen the Government's position across all regions of the country, including in the fight against opium poppy production.
The Minister has already referred to our concern about this.
There has been a substantial increase in the amount of hectares under opium production, a rapid increase in the farm-gate price of poppies, a ballooning in the production of heroin with implications not only for surrounding countries, but for European countries, and for the funding of organised crime and terrorism in the region and beyond.
I believe that we have to give far more attention to this problem in the next year or so, a problem which directly affects political authority in Afghanistan itself.
Recent reports highlight the unacceptable situation faced by minority groups, and women, in some parts of the country.
I paid a first trip to Kabul in May 2002 and will be returning this February as part of a trip to the Central Asian Republics.
The support received from this House has been very reassuring, especially in helping to secure funding for Afghanistan for 2003.
It is sometimes difficult for the international community to focus on more than one or two blips on its radar screen at any one moment.
There is a huge job for us to do in Afghanistan.
There are worrying tasks for the international community in the Central Asian Republics and there are reasons for concern about the situation in Pakistan.
Personally speaking, the date of Afghanistan one year on was four months ago, on 9 September 2002, when I went to Kabul to represent the European Parliament at the ceremonies held for the first anniversary of the assassination of Commander Massoud.
In June 2000 I had met them in the camps, where they survived thanks only to the humanitarian aid that continued to reach them owing to the courageous efforts - as you yourself stressed, Commissioner - of the few NGOs that remained in the face of the difficulties put in their way by the ruling regime.
Finally, I was able to see the efforts being made by the provisional government to restore to the whole of the country the harmony essential for the establishment of a lasting peace.
President Karzai's government continues to work through the transitional administration to promote stability, democracy and prosperity in Afghanistan.
But, firstly, it is still far from achieving all its objectives, in particular because it has been unable to extend its authority over parts of the territory that are still under the sway of a small number of warlords who are refusing to give any allegiance to the central authorities.
That is why we welcome the commitment given by the governments of the neighbouring countries in Kabul last month and call on them to cooperate unreservedly for the complete destruction of the terrorist networks that remain.
As you said, if the government's authority is to be established all the aid granted by the international community must pass through that government and, in particular, aid must no longer be given to some of the local lords.
In conclusion, I would like to say to Commissioner Patten that we want the Commission to endeavour, through its own projects, to strengthen the authority and ability of the Afghan Government by making increasing use of the available resources and skills of the national labour force, which are perhaps too much overlooked at present.
The Afghan people are a strong people who deserve our support.
The liberation of Afghanistan by the international coalition against terrorism, against the Taliban and against the Al-Qaida network has fortunately been very successful.
Commissioner Patten has rightly said that this is in no small measure thanks to the efforts of the European Union.
There is a new provisional government, and no fewer than 1.8 million Afghans have returned after what has, for many, been decades of forced exile abroad, and thousands of girls and women once again have the opportunity to enjoy an education in Afghanistan.
At the same time, this success is being threatened by the diversion of some of the very important international players to a new playground - Iraq.
Human rights, women's rights and reconstruction are threatened on a daily basis in these regions.
The first and most important priority must be to extend the ISAF's mandate so as to help the ATA to build up a national army that will cover the whole of Afghanistan.
Starting in February, the Netherlands and Germany will be playing a leading role in the ISAF forces on behalf of Europe, hopefully with a mandate that will actually demobilise the warlords, build up the national army and re-establish authority over the whole of Afghanistan.
The important agreement which Afghanistan concluded with its neighbours on 22 December last year should thus also be given another chance.
The preparations for these elections are essential, as this is the way to actually establish a broad gender-sensitive, multi-ethnic and representative government.
The Commissioner has already commented that women's rights in certain areas of the country are under assault, but I say this is also happening at central government level.
If we look at what Mr Solana identified as the aims of European Union involvement in Afghanistan, women are not mentioned: women's rights are just not there.
If we fail on that, then we will have no success at all.
However, values should not just be described; justice, the fight against poverty and peace must be pursued in difficult circumstances.
One year on from the Bonn Agreement and clearly many positive steps have been taken.
I have personally seen the progress made this year, especially in Kabul - schools reopened, girls studying journalism - but at the same time, I have seen and heard that key figures such as military leaders and the United States have allowed human rights failures, which are still apparent.
I am not just referring to abuse and discrimination against women at work, in the streets, in the media and not just, moreover, in the Herat area - land of the infamous Khan - but all over the country; I am also referring to social discrimination, to favour-based politics and nepotism, applied to everyone, but especially - and the USA is primarily responsible for this - with regard to the supply of arms, aid and political support for military leaders who should be before the International Court.
We need to help the central government, the Ministry of Social Affairs - the Minister for Equal Opportunities, Habiba Sarabi, has appealed to us all to increase aid and support for gender policies and women's policies within the European Commission too - and enable democratic elections to take place in 2004: these are all essential things.
Moreover, it is also essential, as Commissioner Patten said, to extend central power to the various areas of the country, above all separate military power from civilian power and encourage the Human Rights Commission, not just the Afghan one - Sima Samar is a courageous woman who bravely continues her work - but also UNAMA.
I met UNAMA representatives in Kabul who could not travel round the country for fear not only of warlords, but also of marines, for fear of speaking out and exposing human rights violations, in which we were also complicit.
The passage of time does not, however, help democratic forces: Commissioner Patten also said this, just as he said we are arriving late; perhaps we could have done more in 1980.
Donor countries should pay greater heed to the government, but above all to women's organisations which are saying loud and clear that the warlords' power must be cut off and the country must be reconstructed on the basis of law and democracy, because there can be no democracy if there is torture or massacres such as the one at Mazar-i-Sharif.
Europe must continue to do its part; we cannot take a different path: we must give continuity to our work and our commitment.
The UN Human Rights Committee, which has a special rapporteur for the position of women, should really go and carry out targeted investigations in places where we all know the position of women has deteriorated, like in Herat, for example.
The time has also come for the international community, including the European Union, to make it clear that aid depends on progress with regard to the position of women, and that deterioration will have long-term consequences.
Another subject that we dealt with four months ago - and this has also been mentioned now by a number of fellow Members - was the extension of the ISAF's mandate outside Kabul.
In his response to our contribution four months ago, the Commissioner himself stated at the time, and I quote: the Member States will certainly take note of the comments of many MEPs.
The position of the ISAF has started to suffer, even in Kabul.
The facts set out at the Petersberg Conference are encouraging: EUR 830 million already allocated by Europe, with a tangible impact on medicine and health, education - education which is now finally accessible to girls too - security through mine-clearing and the deactivation of unexploded bombs, agriculture, the restoration of urban areas, the reconstruction of infrastructure and return and assistance for refugees who are at last going back to their country.
There is, however, still a long way to go: many of the funds allocated by Europe are still frozen, and we need a stronger commitment by our countries' governments to the democratic development of Afghanistan.
The terrorism emergency is, in any case, unresolved and Europe must renew its political and moral commitment to helping the secular governments of those Muslim countries that wish to combat fundamentalist extremism.
Members of the various terrorist networks are not only continuing to operate in areas of Afghanistan not yet controlled by the government but, in fact, live and are active in bordering countries and are operationally linked with areas which have become centres for attracting and recruiting others, such as certain areas of Somalia and South-East Asia.
Support for Afghanistan goes beyond the exclusively political or economic principle of international cooperation, and constitutes a very real challenge for the protection of civilisation, the dignity of peoples and freedom now and in the future.
With regard to the issue of women, this is still a vast and ongoing problem, but it is helpful to point out that there are female Ministers in Afghanistan, such as the Minister for Women's Affairs, and that the First Counsellor of the Afghan Embassy in Brussels is a woman who works and actively collaborates with the government precisely in order to improve the status of women.
Finally, we cannot, in this first report on free Afghanistan, forget Commander Massoud and Europe's lethargy when he asked for help just a few months before being assassinated and before the Twin Towers tragedy.
Well, I feel that Parliament should take note and encourage this desire to become a fully paid-up member of the international community, also in this respect, because who knows, in the future the Court could operate precisely to try crimes committed in that country.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the human suffering in Afghanistan has lasted for decades and precludes a cynical approach to these deliberations, although such would be a very tempting option.
It must be clear to us that the years since the Soviet invasion saw a country that was poor in any case progressively smashed to pieces, only then for it to tear itself apart in a civil war, before the Taliban finished off what was left.
The question arises, however, of to what extent both the military victors and the present government have the authority to achieve real stability and get reconstruction underway.
If they do not, it appears to me that there will be a grave danger of a nascent resistance movement that new warlords could use for their own ends, so that, in spring or summer, new internal conflicts could flare up and make it even more difficult to guarantee the entire region's stability, to attract investment, and organise aid - with the country thus ending up in another vicious circle, and with us in a situation in which we can achieve even less.
When I see how even the United States of America can no longer guarantee the safety of its troops, and how they are now starting to set up camps in certain areas into which they can withdraw at night, it reminds me of other examples.
I think we all feel a reserved satisfaction; we all see the continuing shortcomings in Afghanistan and we all know what has to be done over coming years.
I think the UN has an obligation both to investigate and examine these allegations closely and to make known and publish the results of their enquiries.
And secondly, we should be ashamed about the fate of prisoners in Guantanamo and other detention camps run by the American military for members of the Taliban who have been arrested and people who have been imprisoned and are being called Taliban.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for once I have the advantage of not talking about abstract matters but basing what I have to say on a trip that several of us made.
I want to say, Commissioner, that the welcome we received from the European Commission representatives on the spot and the work they are doing there can only increase the pride that you feel for all those members of the European Commission that we met, who helped us to visit the area and meet the political leaders there.
I also remember the priority that the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities gave to the necessity of putting across the importance of women's involvement in the process of organising power.
I also remember that in the European Parliament we produced a report on the role of women in armed conflicts, both as victims and as players.
We can speak of both at the same time today given what the Afghan population is expecting of Europe.
Coming back to the position of women, this is a very complex problem, but at the same time what is clear is the need to be precise.
A committee was set up in November to draft one and the nine people on that committee include two women.
I have had a look at the 1964 constitution: it is extremely vague about human rights in general and women's rights in particular.
Women's rights are revealing.
Mr President, the danger with foreign policy initiatives designed to counter terrorism following the 11 September disaster is that we are deluded into thinking that in the parts of the world where this strategy has been deployed everything has therefore been resolved.
In Afghanistan, most of the country outside Kabul is still under the control of warlords and regional leaders who continue to commit human rights abuses on a large scale, including torture and the disappearance of Afghan civilians.
In Afghanistan, in the Herat province under the governorship of Ismail Khan, the situation has deteriorated.
UNAMA, the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan, must stop funding these offending warlords immediately.
Some of us in the European Parliament recently saw a film by Jamie Doran, the Scottish film-maker, backing with hard evidence the existence of a mass grave in the Mazar-i-Sharif region which might contain the remains of 3 000 prisoners of war, killed and tortured by anti-Taliban forces.
Mr President, the reconstruction of Afghanistan has not, in my view, remotely begun, despite the assurances given in the House today.
The warlords still maintain their iron grip outside Kabul and women still wear the burka and have no rights whatsoever, for instance to education or primary healthcare.
It is, in my view, right for the United States and the rest of the Western world to seek to destroy Al-Qaida and eliminate Osama Bin Laden, but so far they have failed.
Much has been made of women's rights in Afghanistan, but as I said , nothing has changed.
Many commentators suggest that it is part of the strategy to ensure access to oil from the Caspian Sea.
We have to look clearly at our policy in the Middle East and elsewhere.
Those who are trying to establish peace in Afghanistan have to give credible proof of their primary interest in stability and the establishment of democratic structures rather than in the pacification of the region, all the better to exploit its crude oil resources or to build pipelines to siphon off Central Asia's reserves of oil and gas.
Every departure from international law under the cloak of counter-terrorism inflicts grave damage on the legal heritage of the nations, thus imperilling 200 years of work on building a society that promotes civilisation.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not let the crises - which range from North Korea to the Middle East and the unpredictability of the situation in Iraq - distract our attention from Afghanistan.
At the end of the day, we have to get used to the idea of having to provide, in the longer term, both financial and political support if democratic institutions are to have a chance of being established in this country, ravaged as it has been by war and civil strife that has lasted for decades.
Even the many conferences in Washington, Kabul, Bonn and Oslo sometimes tend to give the impression of being sedatives, rather than expressions of an energetic policy aimed at stiffening the resolve to establish democracy in this country.
The demand that the mandate of the International Security Assistance Force be extended, along with the area under that mandate, is a justified one.
I was at that time chairman of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities and had listened to a representative of the Rawa organisation speaking about the position of women in Afghanistan.
We then presented the joint priorities in a resolution adopted by Parliament during the December 2001 part-session.
Women's rights are quickly forgotten in the man's world in which we live.
The strong and pro-active Minister for Equality in the provisional Afghan Government was removed, and the role of Afghan women is now all but totally eclipsed, in spite of the fact that probably two thirds of the population consist of women and children.
Women are the most important actors in the cause of peace.
Others are international law and human rights.
I find it bizarre that we have a resolution by Parliament that takes no account at all of the fact that a number of European citizens are in a prison camp and that we do not know for how long they will be there, what their future prospects are and what legal system they come under.
In that way, we give people the impression - in Afghanistan too - that there are two standards in this world, namely that which we demand that they themselves uphold and that which we, for our part, are willing to uphold, because it is we who have the power and thus, in our view, also the right to make demands.
Another area in which we face similar problems is in relation to the massacre in Mazar-i-Sharif.
When you wander around the famous Chicken Street in Kabul, for example, you see women in dirty old burkas begging, children begging, men standing around chatting.
In a country in which people have always fought each other, you must involve women, you must put women in a prominent position, and this must be enforced.
After all, can we imagine a society in the European Union which provides healthcare without women, where there is education without women, for example?
Mr President, we must not forget Afghanistan.
The elimination of the Taliban revealed a country where all the structures of the national state have to be rebuilt, starting with those for guaranteeing external and internal security, that is, a national army and national police force, which are essential if the legitimate government is to exercise its authority in every part of the country.
Together with France, Great Britain and Italy, who are actively involved in training the Afghan army, Europe is playing an important part in this reconstruction work, whose second priority is to rebuild a fiscal and customs administration and dismantle the system of sharing state revenue between armed groups that had come into being with foreign invasion and civil war.
Mr President, one year on we can take much satisfaction from what has been achieved by the Afghan people supported by the international community, but all this reveals the size of the mountain to be climbed.
We see the scale of the problem when we understand that the writ of President Karzai does not extend far beyond Kabul and a few other towns, and his personal security remains largely in foreign hands.
The fact is that warlords continue to hold sway in many of the more remote areas, and their commitment to peaceful development and democracy is largely non-existent.
There will be fresh demands, not only in relation to Iraq, but in other places as well.
The fact is that all our countries need to generate more military capability and the willingness to use it in concert with America and other allies, along with other instruments.
Afghanistan's neighbours have been enormously affected by the refugee problem, but equally countries such as the United Kingdom have felt the impact.
With this in mind I welcome the Council decision of 29 November to adopt the return action plan for Afghanistan, the first application of this programme.
Finally, Afghanistan is one of the most heavily mined countries in the world.
We need to find more effective, quicker methods involving local people to overcome the scourge of landmines, not just in Afghanistan, but elsewhere as well.
Mr President, the subject of today's debate is Afghanistan: one year after the Bonn Agreement.
In this sense, our objectives must be to establish a stable rule of law with stable institutions that allow democracy to function and everyone's rights to be respected.
A great deal of costly work needs to be done; more to the point, a long-term strategy is needed.
The question is: do all the forces operating in the area have a common strategy?
Because, if memory serves me well, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, for example, said that 80% of the money was being used by non-governmental organisations working in the area in order to stay afloat and only 20% was going to the country.
Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, the strategic importance of Afghanistan cannot be overestimated.
Commissioner Patten was right to emphasise the contribution that the EU as a whole and the EU Commission in particular have made during the last year.
This in an impressive list and the Commission, ECHO and the various aid organisations involved deserve credit.
However, on the general issue of aid, it is important to point out that, although the total aid from the international community may seem enormous when compared to other areas in crisis, Afghanistan is at the bottom of the pile when we look at aid given per capita.
The average aid pledges to Bosnia, Kosovo, East Timor and Rwanda were approximately $250 per person, as against $75 for Afghanistan.
The international community should take note of this.
We should also use our influence to ensure a proper balance is struck between providing short term relief and undertaking long term reconstruction.
The EU has done a lot, but we cannot become complacent or allow the problems of Afghanistan to be sidelined by the prospect of war with Iraq or problems with North Korea.
We have a moral obligation to create permanent peace and stability, tackle the problem of the warlords, improve human rights, especially, as other speakers have pointed out, women's rights, and establish real democracy in Afghanistan.
The holding of democratic elections next year, the establishment of a national army and the pursuit of good neighbourly relations are all positive steps in the right direction.
Mr President, although it was a year ago that Afghanistan's Taliban regime was toppled, there has been scarcely any improvement in the appalling position of women there.
The health care system is a disaster, and an Afghan woman dies, either as a result of pregnancy or in childbirth, every 20 minutes.
The education system had collapsed utterly.
It is difficult to get back to normality in a country in which, according to one American study, 70% of all Afghan women suffer from severe depression and 65% keep contemplating suicide.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has taken up this issue on many occasions.
The lack of coordination leads to friction costs in the work of the NGOs and government offices.
It does, however, give me great satisfaction to learn that there is strong consensus here in this House, within the presidency and the Commission, that the position of women needs to be improved.
And the message to our American friends must be: no war in the Middle East!
The main aim of this initiative is to promote the involvement of our younger citizens in the debate on the future of Europe.
However, a year after Bonn, I think coordination is a serious problem, both in the provision and distribution of aid and, more to the point, the policy being applied.
Unfortunately, the upshot of this divisive western policy is that entire areas are beyond the control of the central administration and this is precisely what caused the recent surge in the production of opium, which accounted for 70% of world production in 2002.
The Taliban may have lost power, but their spirit still haunts Afghanistan.
I think the Greek Presidency, Mr President-in-Office, could do a great deal to help by proposing that a European fund be set up and a line included in the 2004 budget especially for women in Afghanistan.
Since 11 September, the country has in fact been a caricature of a clear conscience.
I hope that one day Europe will want to play a part, that Europe will stop following the lead of the US, that Europe will at least stop preventing the Member States from playing their own part.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Patten for what they have told us today.
The progress made in one year since the first Bonn Conference is truly remarkable, and likewise we should applaud the determination, selflessness and competence of our Commission officials in Kabul.
There has been some criticism: reforms announced by the Karzai Government itself have been delayed; even though a commission has been appointed to draw up the new Constitution, it is being obstructed by religious issues, by minorities, whereas it needs to go ahead, especially with a specific acknowledgement of women's rights too; security is still a serious problem; there is no judicial system and there is no national defence force; an operative police force is still lacking.
All this is true.
The European Union, which has done a great deal, must therefore persevere on these issues.
This is an urgent appeal that I am making to the European Union and to us all lest we forget this: there is no chance of making progress or finding a way out of this situation unless women are directly involved in this process.
I must say that I agree that the role of the administration needs to extend beyond Kabul city limits if there is to be greater stability and normalisation in the country as a whole, that the mission of the ISAF needs to be extended so that it can work along the same political lines and, thirdly, that human rights must be respected, be they women's rights, prisoners' rights or adversaries' rights.
The debate as a whole has shown that what we want to create in Afghanistan, as everyone knows, is a country in which the values of democracy and freedom take hold and the potential for economic development and confidence is realised.
We are only a short way down the line and we still have a great deal to do over a very long period of time.
Success cannot be measured by one criterion alone or by a number of individual criteria which we might mention, and several have been mentioned, be they institutional or individual rights or economic progress.
Mr Andrews' contribution covered not only Afghanistan but Iraq.
It is not the easiest assignment to manage our programme there.
One would have to be deaf not to recognise the concern the House has expressed about women's rights as part of a general concern about human rights.
We will emphasise then that this Parliament, which votes this money so intelligently and generously, wants us to ensure that the issue of women's rights is at the heart of the government's approach to development.
Let me just say one other word about donor coordination, because several speakers have referred to that and I only touched on it in general terms in my opening remarks.
The Afghan Government has now put in place the structures to coordinate donors.
We have also established an informal European donor forum to help develop a coordinated European Union approach to key issues and meetings and there is also an informal donor network between the European Commission and the Member States, the United States and Japan.
As the crisis in Afghanistan unfolded, the key priority was to deliver humanitarian support quickly and effectively, but now looking to the future, it will be important to ensure that all donors operate within the framework and priorities set by the consultative group.
These proposals were what, in essence, our second reading was about.
I will also express my thanks to our colleagues in the Conciliation Committee, and to all those with whom we dealt during the conciliation procedure.
The cooperation between Members of every nation and political group was open, decorous, frank and supportive to such an extent that I am convinced that you will not find the like of it in any legislature in the world.
So I again want to thank most especially the colleagues who have always, and repeatedly, assured me of their support, even when conditions were rather less favourable on every side.
Because the conciliation is about be concluded successfully, the Commission welcomes this agreement which provides a clear framework for tests on animals in the cosmetic sector.
The solution found offers a genuine benefit to animal welfare whilst safeguarding consumer health protection and our international commitments.
Let me point out, however, that many other important aspects are included.
All those aspects are clearly of benefit to the consumer.
During this legislature, I have had the opportunity to debate many issues, some of them genuinely difficult and complicated, but perhaps in none of them have I seen so much desire to reach consensus through cooperation amongst all the agents involved as in the case of the rapporteur on this directive.
I do not believe that this has been a debate based on the positions of the different political groups, in confrontation; it has essentially been a debate between stagnation and progress in an area on which the European Parliament has for years maintained a united and coherent position, with a view of the issues which differs from that of the cosmetics industry and, on several fundamental points, also from that of the Commission itself.
The rapporteur has already mentioned the long process of debate and joint work between the parliamentary groups with the industry, the Commission and also with the competent administrations of the Member States and finally a compromise was achieved last November following an extremely long conciliation which, if I remember correctly, lasted twelve hours.
And this is essentially because they will be better able to serve the interests of the citizens in the field of animal protection, without in any way also undermining the safety or diversity, of course, of the products on the market.
In this regard, one of the most difficult parts of the work on this directive has been managing to establish the field of exceptions through the definition of tests which, for a period of ten years in specific and essential cases where no alternative methods have been found, will still be able to be carried out.
I believe that the European Parliament not only can and must communicate that this seventh amendment is a success, but also it would be a mistake for the industry not to take this opportunity to draw up a new communication strategy based on the agreements reached and on its position in favour of the concerns of the consumers, not only with regard to animal experimentation, but also, as we have seen, with regard to other points of the directive which imply greater control of the marketing of these products.
This proposal puts animal welfare above human vanity, but never above human health.
It sets time limits, graduated in accordance with the difficulties involved, and it sets new standards of reference which should and will be respected.
I also want to thank the Commission for carrying out its intermediary role, mindful of law and precedent, but also of the strong views of this Parliament which have been echoed here under three different Commissions, for more than ten years.
My colleagues on the Conciliation Committee expressed the long frustrations of this process in that last marathon session.
None of us should make any apologies for how we came to be in this place today.
I am personally proud of the fact that the rapporteur got us through this procedure and it enhances the reputation of Parliament, not merely for its procedures but also for their effectiveness.
Month after month, ministers told us that such a marketing ban would be contrary to WTO rules, but these objections were at last overcome during our middle-of-the-night negotiations.
I pay tribute to our rapporteur Dagmar Roth-Berendt, and I thank our chief lobbyists Marlou Heinen of the RSPCA, Emily McIvor of BUAV, and Charles Laroche of Unilever who presented the acceptable face of an industry many have grown to mistrust.
Madam President, as we all know, it was the issue of a comprehensive and rapid ban on animal experiments carried out in the context of cosmetics testing that was the big issue in this conciliation.
If it had been the European Parliament that had decided the issue, matters would in fact have proceeded more quickly, and the ban might already have been in place by now.
Certain Member States, in particular, did everything to delay the ban.
The person who definitely deserves most praise in this context is our rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt.
While this was a cause close to our heart, we also know that this position could never have gained majority support without great commitment on the part of the rapporteur, who made our demands her own.
There are now clear and realistic criteria for the development and marketing of alternative tests, so that Parliament can count this as one of its great triumphs, not only for animal welfare, but also for consumers.
Madam President, conciliation has brought a result which, in the end, satisfies no one.
The cut-off date adopted in the directive will, however, in our opinion mean that the safety of the products placed on the market can no longer be guaranteed - they will not in fact have undergone a full range of tests affording the same guarantees as the tests carried out on animals - European products will be penalised on the markets of those third countries that continue to perform animal experiments, which are the only completely reliable ones today, and there will be a risk of WTO sanctions, since it may regard the ban as a barrier to the marketing of cosmetics manufactured outside the European Union.
Finally, I note that some directives are being revised for the seventh time, while others, like the 1979 ''Birds'' directive and the ''Habitats'' directive, which is ten years old now, have still not been revised at all.
No doubt it is my fault that I have been unaware of your existence in recent years.
At any rate, you have had nothing to say for the whole of the debate on cosmetics, and, if you are going to go away today and say that everything went wrong, I cannot recall you having made any serious or creditable contribution to this debate.
Every directive has, of course, its pros and cons.
We have not yet slammed the door shut, but I believe that we have made a great advance by saying that the cut-off point will be at the end of a period of time - in 2009 as far as I am concerned.
I know perfectly well from my study of the market economy, Mr Barnier, that industry needs facts and data in order to be able to plan ahead - and there is nothing you can teach us on that score.
That is also what we have said here in Parliament but, as we know from the negotiations, there were some Member States that simply blocked the experiments concerned being halted more quickly.
I believe that, overall, there has been a breakthrough in relation to unnecessary animal experiments and that there has also been a breakthrough in terms of public health and consumer protection in the cosmetics area.
I can fully understand the animal protection organisations' concern about the fact that it will take such a long time for the ban to be introduced and about the fact that so very many thousands of animals will be destroyed for the sake of our vanity.
I am also very pleased that consumer protection has been taken seriously, that we are to obtain indications of contents and that there are to be bans on certain substances that are clearly unsuitable, above all perhaps when they form part of preparations we use on children and young people who are more vulnerable than ourselves.
We keep seeing these appalling films of animal transportation and slaughter, revealing how we in Europe treat our animals.
Madam President, there were three goals that were important to the Greens.
The second point, which was given less of a chance, relates to dangerous substances.
So we have also won on that point.
There is one thing I would like to get off my chest, though: I really cannot understand the criticism from the animal protectionists.
The June Movement will of course vote in favour of the conciliation text.
I remember the lively debates we have had in our Assembly, debates often full of emotion, whenever the question of animal welfare and public health has arisen.
While it is right to want to restrict experiments on animals, we must never forget that our prime objective is to guarantee the health of our fellow citizens.
That is where we need the wisdom to be able to strike a balance between the need to find alternatives to tests on animals and the need to give priority to public health.
We do not want to put the cosmetics industry in difficulties either, however, since it is an important part of our economy.
Our rapporteur has clearly explained that we have been discussing all this for at least 10 years.
For example, to take the example of various allergens, the information that has to be communicated must not frighten the consumer.
Finally, I will end by saying that this third reading is a good example of the quality of the parliamentary work that has been done under the responsibility of our rapporteur.
When viewed solely from the point of view of cosmetics, the outcome of the conciliation can be described as good.
This necessity does not apply to beauty products, so this directive should have implemented an unconditional ban on the sale and testing of these cosmetics.
The standpoint taken by our Parliament was already a compromise, but the outcome that has now been achieved makes things even worse.
It is not the Parliamentary delegation in the conciliation committee who is to blame for this flawed compromise but the Commission and the Council who have unilaterally bowed to pressure from the cosmetics industry.
The Commission originally came forward with a proposal to end tests.
We were in danger of doing just that and putting the testing into countries where the welfare of animals was a much lower priority than it is within the Member States.
I am also extremely pleased about the transitional period of six years to allow alternatives to be found, as there are only three categories of tests that are particularly difficult to replace and the industry has until 2013 to develop alternative methods for these.
Today, though, I really would like to thank Europe's cosmetics industry most warmly for its cooperation, and I wish you a turnover of staggering dimensions.
I would rather not hear anything further said on this subject in this House.
My wish is that there should now be a timetable, one that might even now be complied with even more promptly, and that that should draw a line under the subject.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0027/2003) tabled by Giuseppe Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on immigration and asylum policy (Parliament rejected the motion for resolution) Joint motion for a resolution Mr President, I rise on a brief point of order.
I have two short comments to make: firstly, to express my regret and to apologise, because I am the author of an alternative motion for a resolution which, as a result of the appalling time constraints, could not be included in Monday evening's debate on this report.
I wish to apologise for this and have my apology recorded in the House; secondly, I wish to ask the Bureau to draw attention to the fact that the first vote we will be holding on Amendment No 49 is not an ordinary vote; it is not a common vote on the amendment.
Before the vote on Amendment No 23: Mr President, our voting list does not seem to be following the same order as yours.
We did not have Amendment 6 or Amendment 30, so we are a bit lost at the moment.
I think we have lost the page.
We will catch up. (Laughter and applause) The Liberals have been saying that for a hundred years. (Laughter and applause) Before the vote on Amendment No 24: Mr President, I would simply like to point out a translation error in the French version.
I have checked in the other versions.
This leads me to say to my PPE-DE friends that we should vote for this amendment and, of course, correct the French version.
This is the first visit by representatives from the Egyptian Parliament since 1987.
Mr President, I nevertheless deplore the way in which this vote has proceeded.
I regret that our colleagues were not serious to the end and showed no respect for the efforts of our fellow Members who worked on this resolution.
In reality, what we have here is a struggle between two concepts of immigration policy: the States meeting in the Council are trying to push through a (relatively) restrictive concept, whereas the Commission is constantly putting much more open proposals on the table, which might be said to be based on the idea that the rights of immigrants and refugees take precedence over the right of the citizens of the countries of Europe to security.
The European Parliament is clearly showing here whose side it is on.
We are, however, able to support those parts of the resolution that take account of the social and humanitarian situation of refugees and immigrants and that try to improve it. . (FR) We voted for the GUE/NGL Group's motion for a resolution and against the joint resolution, whose signatories once again show that they are concerned only with the free movement of goods but not with the freedom and rights of human beings.
We also reaffirm our demand that all who live and work in the European Union should have the same rights, including electoral rights, and the same freedoms, including the freedom of movement, as the citizens of the Member States of the Union.
British Conservatives have consistently opposed a Common Asylum and Immigration Policy and believe that these policies should be determined by Member States.
In June 2002 in Seville the European Council committed itself to speeding up the implementation of the programme adopted in Tampere; we therefore call on the Council to abide by its commitments and stop obstructing the expected progress.
We must respond quickly because we cannot close our eyes to the dramas currently being played out in our Member States.
Unfortunately, the original position of the European Commission was to advocate a ban on animal testing in the European area rather than a ban on the marketing of such products.
Mr President, the final two lines of paragraph 55 of the Swiebel report, which has been adopted by the House, calls for steps to be taken as soon as possible, on the basis of the Treaty of Amsterdam, to issue a directive abolishing all the other kinds of discrimination not yet regulated, which are set out in Article 13, including the prohibition of discrimination against citizens on the grounds of age and disability.
In particular, I feel that not giving a disability pension to European citizens just because they are over 65, whereas one would be granted before, is discrimination, and that is why I gladly approved this report.
Mr President, today, a fortuitous left-wing majority of five votes has done damage to the cause of human rights.
I take the view that one can have the most divergent views on all issues of policy, but I regard a polarisation of this sort on human rights as being intrinsically malignant.
Mr President, as has already been said, by just five votes Parliament has provided the news reports with one of the most disappointing and shameful pages on our work in this forum: a report entitled 'on the human rights situation in the European Union' and which, on the contrary, has violated, or is violating, many of the rights which most affect citizens.
The British Labour members and I have voted in favour of the Swiebel report, which as a whole serves a valuable purpose.
The UK takes very seriously all allegations of violence and racism by public servants.
With respect to maternity rights in the UK, all pregnant women are entitled to 18 weeks leave, which may begin up to 11 weeks before the birth of the child.
However, there are several problem paragraphs, such as paragraph 78 on the ban on women entering Mount Athos.
I do not think it is against this criterion that women's rights will be measured; they will be measured in terms of employment, equal pay, domestic violence and the fight against trafficking in human beings.
We can hardly talk about freedom of movement on this tiny strip of land which has its own sense of time and observes customs and traditions which date back thousands of years.
Soon we will be calling for freedom of establishment and freedom of business activity and the monasteries will be overrun with Coca-Cola stands.
Behind prostitution, there is always compulsion, dependency and exploitation.
There can be no talk of voluntary prostitution and therefore no talk of forced prostitution either.
The task of establishing the extent of these areas has been entrusted by the government to a special commission that exists for the purpose of setting the limits of the reindeer breeding area.
The inquiry must be completed by the end of 2004 and will then have to be referred for consultation.
Reading the pages of the Swiebel Report, however, it can be inferred that this important commitment to everybody's rights is being transformed into an accusation against some quarters: in particular Italy and those who, in Italy, took the liberty of voting against the rapporteur's wishes.
Also with regard to defence of the family and related values, the report takes a one-sided, prejudiced view, which is certainly legitimate for a political group, but which cannot and must not become a common position of the European Union.
Apart from religious aspects - which, nevertheless, cannot be completely overlooked, given the importance attached to Christian culture in Europe - the report completely ignores the great social and educational value undeniably inherent in the traditional couple, intended as a basic cell in the connective tissue of society.
Defence of the right of individuals to conduct their relationships in their preferred manner is sacrosanct, but the European institutions cannot, in my view, equate these relationships with the social institution of the family in its traditional meaning. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The Moderate delegation to the European Parliament considers it incredibly important that a parliamentary report be written each year on the ways in which the EU Member States are complying with human rights.
It is self-evident that we should make just as tough demands upon our own countries as upon the candidate countries and other non-EU countries.
Irrespective of whether or not one shares these political visions, this method is in danger of devaluing the importance of fundamental rights.
Naturally, the principle that it should not be possible to convict someone twice for the same crime is fundamental.
I am deeply concerned to read the many criticisms of the United Kingdom in this report.
I note that most Labour members voted for the passages concerned with the UK and can well understand their despair at the state of the United Kingdom after just under five years of a Labour Government.
For myself, I felt obliged to vote against the report.
The June Movement endeavours to support and improve the human rights situation both within and outside the EU.
If, in spite of everything, we voted in favour of this report, it is because the few recommendations that go in the right direction, that defend basic rights, that condemn racism and xenophobia or that oppose the death penalty, so much annoy the most reactionary parties in this Assembly.
The Member States and the EU have got into the habit of giving lessons in democracy and defence of human rights all over the world.
The report does in fact reveal many violations of human rights in the EU.
Sexual discrimination or discrimination against minorities like the Roma, police violence, deplorable conditions of detention in prisons and police stations, racist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic acts and violence, challenges to basic rights in the name of combating terrorism, the replacement of security policies and crackdowns on immigration and asylum, not to mention violations of social rights and frequent attacks on trade union rights.
The report's explanatory statement also contains less rigorous information which did not, however, influence my vote, because I do not feel they are important in determining the report's content, since they are not being voted on or published.
Like local, regional or national institutions, the European institutions must also be free to adopt a position, criticise or praise the practices of institutions other than their own.
Nevertheless, a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the EU that makes no assessment of the legislation and activities of the European institutions is not a report on the European Union - it is merely a report on Member States.
Last year, Parliament adopted a method comprising the adoption of the Charter, the establishment of means, including the network of experts, and a joint effort by three rapporteurs, in order to achieve a consensus.
This report will not affect the Charter at all, since only a new Convention has the power to change its articles.
The right to vote at local level is one way of participating.
Granting them the right to vote at local level means recognising an additional right, but this recognition is not without its associated duties.
Third country nationals who can prove that they have lived in the European Union for at least five years must therefore show a voluntary commitment if they are to be granted the right to vote in local elections.
This commitment must confirm compliance with democratic values and human rights as laid down, amongst others, by the Constitutions and national legislation, as well as by the European Convention on Human Rights of 1950, which protects in particular freedom of conscience and religion, and prohibits any form of discrimination on the grounds of religion, sex or race.
We do not, however, share the rapporteur's absolute conviction that, basically, the only way of bringing about sustained compliance with human rights in the European Union is to introduce the Charter of Fundamental Rights into future treaties. . (PT) We wish to distance ourselves clearly from the approach contained in the motion for a resolution which seeks to give the Charter of Fundamental Rights a 'constitutional' value that it does not have and we would recall the criticism we made of any such intention and of the motion's retrograde content in the field of rights at the time it was adopted at the Nice Summit, whereas others have supported it and continue to do so.
On most points criticising Greece or urging it to make improvements, either the relevant articles of Greek law have already been amended and the called-for improvement already introduced or the first steps toward legislative reform have already been taken.
However, the three facts are omitted: a) the death penalty has been abolished, except in the military penal code, and then only for crimes in times of war; b) the bill to abolish the death penalty in the military penal code has already been drafted; c) no death penalty imposed is ever carried out. 2.
In her report Miss Swiebel expresses her own personal views on human rights.
It contains an anthology of aberrations: from the recognition of the right to vote and eligibility of foreigners, to the application of quotas for foreigners' access to the job market, to the extension of homosexual marriage, to the abolition of the current minimum age for marriage in France - which is currently 15 for girls and 18 for boys - or the extension of the interpretation of the concept of national minority to all ethnic minorities.
This report would be sadly mediocre, however, if the scattergun approach that has produced all these recitals had not also produced the request to lift the ban introduced in 1045 on women entering Mount Athos, the Greek orthodox sanctuary for monks.
This also applies to child labour, the access of non-EU citizens to the labour market, the difficulties people have in obtaining the nationality of the country in which they are now living, and the lack of the right to vote for those who have not yet obtained this nationality.
EU Member States are apparently failing to ratify international treaties on national minorities, cross-border television, the revised European Social Charter and the status of adopted or illegitimate children.
It is striking that this report, which speaks for itself, was only adopted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs by 25 votes to 20.
The rapporteur admits that her goal is to hijack the Charter of Fundamental Rights to instigate legal proceedings against the Member States and, ultimately, to impose practices, habits and sometimes even deviances that are radically different from our Judaeo-Christian common heritage, on national legal systems.
The narrow margin between votes, however, which meant that my own motion for a resolution was not adopted in plenary (by only 23 votes) and the extremely slim majority (of only five votes) that has just adopted the final resolution, clearly show that the wrong course has been taken.
The methodological shift employed by the rapporteur (and by the narrow majority) has led to exaggerated views that show utter contempt for the fact that the European Union is one of the few privileged regions in the entire world where human rights and respect and guarantees for these are concerned.
Lastly, we have heaped scorn on the reality of a situation with which we are all familiar and we have ended up looking ridiculous, for having given in to a left-wing and sectarian political agenda.
It is probably the first time in the history of the European Parliament that a rapporteur has presented a report on human rights which, for good reasons, has been so fiercely criticised and has attracted such a strikingly narrow majority of votes (274 in favour, 269 against and 14 abstentions).
Since the issue in question is not an EU matter, we European and Christian Democrats were, however, successful in removing item83 (279 votes in favour, 259 against and 9 abstentions), with its invitation to the Member States 'to open up marriage to same-sex couples'.
I also find it disappointing that 13 of the 15 Member States appear not to have honoured their obligation to report periodically on the human rights situation in their countries to the international supervisory committees set up for this purpose.
As the European Union, we have to set an example, otherwise our credibility with third countries will be in jeopardy.
As the chairman of the Intergroup for Regional and Minority Languages, I would like to emphasise how important the use of regional and minority languages is to people.
Language forms part of our personal and cultural identity and is thus one of our fundamental rights.
I have therefore voted in favour of paragraphs 66 and 68.
According to Article 149 of the Treaty on European Union, the European Union's task is to support linguistic diversity.
In fact, it is clear that this is where the weakness of the borders lies, and the first months following the entry of these States, in law and in fact, into the European Union, is when there will be the greatest danger of a violation of the new external borders of Europe.
This, though, is only the first step in the right direction, and I would like to make it abundantly clear that I am putting the case for our pressing for a truly European border protection force, for a European Corps of Border Guards with a basis in Community law and financed on a Community basis, for anything else would be nothing more than a hotchpotch.
As far as the proposed educational institution is concerned, I suggest that resources should be combined and duplication of work avoided by using the Police Academy, also proposed in the 1998 report and already up and running.
The European Parliament's Pirker report is more along these lines, and we also agree, as we have already said at the Seville European Council in June 2002.
It would be useful, however, for the Member States that, by virtue of their geographical position, bear significant costs in this regard, which benefit their neighbours in the Union, to receive appropriate technical and financial support from these neighbours.
You do not specify this because that would mean recognising that this integrated management of the external borders would not be in order to protect the people of Europe, but, without saying so openly, would be designed to turn the European Union into a fortress to which access for migrants, the poor, and refugees would be even more difficult.
We can only approve the establishment of coordination between the Member States over external border control.
In order to guarantee security within the EU, in particular following enlargement, we need to: ensure mutual trust between the Member States with regard to border control, combat all kinds of internal and external threats created by terrorism and combat illegal immigration.
Nobody can deny that the right to security is a fundamental right.
Police from other countries should not have the power to act in other Member States except under very special circumstances, as is also stated in the Schengen Convention.
In exchange for removing all the doors from the 15 apartments in the European building, the 380 million tenants were entitled to have an effective doorman at the common entrance.
Once Europe has been swamped from the East and from the South, it will no longer be necessary to monitor entry through the borders since everyone will already be inside. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The collective training of officials, the collective development of radar equipment, the purchase of mobile surveillance installations and a collective border surveillance service belong to a different sort of Europe than the one the European Union has up to now professed to be.
If the EU develops into one single superstate, it goes without saying that there must be one single minister of foreign affairs with one single embassy in every country abroad and one single collective seat in the United Nations.
The Member States want to keep their embassies and their seats in the UN and the ministers of foreign affairs would rather coordinate their work through a common secretariat than through the European Commission.
Specifically when it comes to everything to do with foreign affairs and defence, we try to show that the EU still consists of 15 sovereign states.
I therefore reject this proposal. . (PT) Illegal immigration networks, trafficking in human beings, organised crime and the fight against terrorism are situations that certainly warrant widespread and priority concern and, as defined in Laeken, call for cooperation mechanisms between the current services responsible for controlling our external borders.
Clearly, a European police corps of this nature raises questions, primarily with regard to its questionable and highly dubious effectiveness.
Nevertheless, European border management still falls within the sphere of national competence and must be applied at national level and, on this point, I am in full agreement with the rapporteur's position.
This must not, however, in light of the experience gained from applying the Schengen acquis, prevent the development of a coordinated policy for the management of current and future external borders, incorporating into this policy the best practices established by the Member States.
I am also in favour of creating a European corps of border guards, composed of special units and to be made available on a temporary basis to the national authorities in high-risk sectors at external borders, when needed and requested by the Member States.
I would, as a matter of fact, draw attention to the fact that Portugal has precisely one of the most important and sensitive external borders of the EU - in this case, a maritime border - to which no one has paid particular attention.
By all means, try to solve your own problems, but, since they do not concern us, we abstained from this vote. . (PT) This report should be seen against the backdrop of the action plan for financial services planned under what is known as the Lisbon strategy, which aims to integrate markets and financial services by 2005 and to achieve greater liberalisation of movements of capital, to which we are opposed.
On the basis of a recent Commission communication, which seeks to regulate the clearing and settlement of securities transactions, in other words, the functioning of the integrated securities markets, especially in crossborder transactions, and in the aim of liberalising movements of capital and of creating a single market for financial services, it also seeks to harmonise the rules, legislation and methods of clearing and settlement in the various Member States, taking account of the considerable national differences that exist in this field.
I would like to stress how important it is, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Pensioners' Party which I represent in the European Parliament, for more substantial European funds to be granted to the development of remote surgical operation techniques.
The report is thoughtful and well-considered.
But all Member States can learn from each other, and in particular they need to learn in the key areas covered by this report.
The specific needs of the elderly regarding health care need much more attention, especially in rural areas.
We are opposed to devising common standards for the monitoring of health and health care strategies and to devising common development strategies for health and health care services within the area concerned.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, whereby decisions are to be made as close as possible to those they affect.
All other issues should be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.
Health care and care for the elderly are examples of areas in which the EU should only have limited competence.
Each Member State should have full responsibility for deciding for itself about these issues, as well as the right to do so, for these are clear examples of areas not of an obviously cross-border nature.
Health care and care for the elderly are issues that have traditionally occupied prominent places on our Liberal agenda.
Having brought upon itself severe demographic reductions as serious as during the two world wars, but this time in the name of freedom, fundamental rights and birth control, in other words birth restriction, Europe has now found that its population is ageing.
The answer to these challenges lies in the new economy of ageing, in inventing a new human planning sector with new diplomas for geriatric assistants and new branches of medicine and associated professions. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Useful and essential community services cost money.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs wants a combination of best practices, access, high quality and accessibility.
It makes little sense to formulate such nice objectives without providing sufficient resources to enable these objectives to actually be achieved.
This does not mean, however, that the ongoing need to protect those who are particularly vulnerable or who have serious financial difficulties due to the high cost of treatment should be overlooked.
Against this backdrop, the proposals contained in the Commission Communication are of strategic importance to guaranteeing accessibility, quality and financial viability with regard to healthcare for the elderly.
The fact that the organisation of healthcare systems, their funding and planning are the responsibility of the Member States is not a barrier to Community cooperation in policies on issues of ageing, in particular in the field of health.
Instead, the sharing of experiences and solutions could help to achieve the social cohesion that we wish to see.
Mr President, I have the pleasure of having a nephew, Silvio Nardini, my sister's son - he does not know that I am mentioning him in the European Parliament - whom I am very proud of because he is part of the European Force involved in a peace mission in Afghanistan: he is a 'top gun', as they say in films, but has his feet firmly on the ground.
I am very happy and proud of what I am doing, and it is very satisfying.
The situation for women is no better than before, children have just as little access to education as in the past, not to mention the tremendous poverty of most of the inhabitants of this country, which is still aggravated by the death and destruction sown by Western planes.
British Conservatives voted in favour of the resolution on Afghanistan, which contains many useful elements, but we do not accept the implied criticism of US actions in Recital I, and in the new paragraph 15a; the desire for the EU as such to create a political role for itself; the suggestion in paragraph 15 that the Council should reconsider its proposals for return of refugees; or indeed the proposal in the new paragraph 10a that ISAF military forces should be employed to investigate human rights abuses, notwithstanding our earnest desire for improvement in the human rights situation, particularly in relation to the situation of women.
Mr President, may I take this opportunity to be the first Member to congratulate Professor Diamandouros on his election as European Ombudsman.
I offer Professor Diamandouros all my congratulations.
Thank you for your comments, Mr Perry.
President, on behalf of the Commission, on behalf of the College and on behalf of all who work in the Commission, I would like most warmly to congratulate Professor Diamandouros on his election.
I am sure that Professor Diamandouros will undertake his responsibilities in a way which will enjoy the confidence of this Parliament and which will overwhelmingly earn the confidence of Europe's citizens as well.
The fact that, during the current term of office, we have elected a new ombudsman also means, I believe, that my fellow MEPs are now still more familiar with the work of the ombudsman and that we are in agreement about what is to be done.
I would ask our esteemed Vice-President and everyone else to ensure that candidates and others do not become aware of important news such as this in the corridors or through text messages from press agencies, but that we, as far as possible, be able to save such news for the solemn meetings we hold in this Chamber.
The final version should reflect the fact that I abstained on that report.
In this regard, the work to create a Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary assembly would be a valuable contribution, and I would encourage our Lebanese colleagues to join in with this task together with the European Parliament and the Parliaments of the region.
The country with which tomorrow, by means of our vote, the European Parliament will open the doors to privileged cooperation, Lebanon, is unquestionably a key player in the region.
Today, after 16 long years of war on its territory, Lebanon can be a travelling companion of the European Union in its enthusiastic attempt to find a solution to the regional conflict.
The association agreements such as the one we are discussing today are an essential element of the European Union's external action, which go further than mere commercial considerations, since they are intended to establish a framework for political dialogue.
With regard to this agreement, I would like to comment on certain issues which have been raised during the debate in committee.
Firstly, although we were undoubtedly delighted by the Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon in May 2000, the issue of stable borders with Israel has still not been finally resolved, and we therefore urge the parties to reach an agreement on this.
In our committee, we have also expressed the need to complete the withdrawal of Syrian troops based in Lebanon, in application of Security Council Resolution 520, in order to guarantee the sovereignty and integrity of that country.
We therefore appeal to the Lebanese Government to submit this issue to the consideration of our colleagues in that country's parliament, so that a debate can be opened to allow progress to be made on this crucial issue.
And, in the presence of the Council and the Commission, I would like to ask that an in-depth debate be held on the effectiveness of the application of this clause and on the possible mechanisms for its parliamentary monitoring and evaluation.
Within this context, the issue of respect for human rights and democratic principles is essential to this Parliament.
I am convinced that this is unquestionably a fundamental instrument which will be extremely useful in terms of supporting the enormous efforts the current government of Minister Hariri is making to improve the economic situation of Lebanon.
As a European Union, we should be making a proportionate contribution to restoring stability to this country and hence to the achievement of stability in general, and I believe this Agreement to be a means towards that end.
I believe that it is also important that we who belong to the European Parliament, being desirous of building up still further our cooperation with the Lebanese Parliament, should indicate that the abolition of the death penalty, the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Torture, as well as the signing of the ICC's Rome Statute, will have a major part to play in moving this development further forward.
As it will do again tomorrow, this Parliament has expressly welcomed Lebanon's efforts at participation in the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1373 by freezing the assets of terrorist groups.
We would request the Council and the Commission to cause an anti-terrorist clause with similar content to be included in all future agreements, as decided at the Seville European Council.
I believe that this is where we have to work closely with Lebanon in order to enable this problem - which is not just about their living conditions, but also has to do with the possibilities for bringing peace to the whole area - to be resolved in a reasonable way, in order to establish proper relations between Palestine and Israel and to secure a lasting peace between them.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it is our wish that the transitional period of twelve years should not be exceeded until we have established a free trade area with Lebanon, and we hope that this Agreement can be implemented accordingly.
The situation in Lebanon is still extremely complicated, mainly because so many different communities live there, meaning that problems require a multiethnic, multilingual, multi-religious approach, not forgetting that Lebanon offers shelter to a great many - about 370 000 - Palestinian refugees.
The application of the arrangements in the Charter of National Reconciliation of 22 October 1989 allowing Syrian forces to be stationed in certain areas of Lebanon, basically comes within the framework of relations between Lebanon and Syria.
The Council is closely monitoring internal political dialogue in Lebanon.
The first step was the Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon in May 2000, followed by a partial withdrawal of the Lebanese-Syrian army in June 2001.
Implementation of the action plan adopted by the European Council in September 2001 is progressing well.
The fact that Lebanon was one of the first countries that agreed to sign the agreement with the European Union on this issue demonstrates that it is prepared to cooperate actively with the European Union, including in the field of information exchanges.
The link between the Cooperation Agreement and the Association Agreement with regard to the fight against terrorism is emphasised by the fact that both agreements were signed on the same day, in Luxembourg on 17 June 2002 to be precise, and will enter into force simultaneously - and soon I hope.
The Council expressed its concern about action by the Lebanese army against Christian activists in August 2001 and about the closure of the independent television station ??F last September.
The Association Agreement will also strengthen the potential for monitoring this issue and will encourage the authorities in Lebanon to have greater respect for human rights.
As you know, the agreement requires respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms to be a basic element in both sides' domestic and foreign policy.
I should like, if I may, to make a number of comments on the Association Agreement, to which the European Parliament is being invited to give its assent.
The signing of the Association Agreement is an important development and marks the start of a new chapter in our relations with Lebanon.
Although it refers mainly to intergovernmental relations, the agreement also offers an operational framework for the business community and civil society.
I should point out that Lebanon has just ratified both the Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement which comes into force on 1 March 2003.
Good communications channels between politicians on both sides of the Mediterranean are an important factor in building constructive relations between the ?U and its Mediterranean partners.
At bilateral level, the Association Agreement makes provision for an EU-Lebanon Association Council, to facilitate cooperation and contacts between the European Parliament and parliamentary institutions in Lebanon.
The Members of Parliament involved will have to set the framework for this dialogue which, as far as the Council is concerned, will supplement Euro-Mediterranean dialogue in general.
I welcome the results of the last meeting of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum in Bari in June 2002, which highlighted the parliamentary dimension of our cooperation with the countries of the Mediterranean.
The Euro-Mediterranean summit in Valencia proposed strengthening the parliamentary dimension of Euro-Mediterranean dialogue by creating a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.
I welcome the recent meeting of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum in Bari on 17-18 June 2002, which supported the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and decided to form a working party to set up this new assembly.
One of the objectives of the Greek Presidency is to use the dynamics of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation in order to strengthen its parliamentary dimension.
One of our presidency's priorities is to achieve new levels of integration and boost the credibility of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, which is why we are currently examining the cooperation mechanisms and measures needed in order to create this assembly.
If it does, the summit of Foreign Ministers meeting in Crete on 26 and 27 May 2003 would be able to welcome their decision and this new institution could be set up.
Mr President, the House is considering today a very important resolution on the adoption of the Association Agreement signed with Lebanon in June last year.
This agreement is not only important for our relations with Lebanon - it is also crucial in the overall European Union-Mediterranean Partnership since it represents another step towards the completion of the grid of Association Agreements within the Barcelona Process (the only agreement still being negotiated is the one with Syria and I am hoping to have the opportunity next month of trying to persuade the Syrians to go ahead themselves more seriously to negotiate an agreement).
When Prime Minister Hariri was elected to office in September 2000, he set his government an ambitious deadline - to conclude the negotiations with the European Commission by the end of 2001.
Parliament has before it, in my judgment, the means to provide Lebanon with a firm foundation for building its future.
Lebanon is now grappling with recovery and with modernisation under difficult economic circumstances, faced with poor immediate prospects for peace in the Middle East, smouldering tensions along the border with Israel and the unsettling possibility of a military conflict in Iraq.
The Lebanese Parliament ratified both the Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement in December.
The interim agreement allows both sides to start the 12-year transition period from March 2003, leading to the gradual introduction of free trade.
This is a clear sign that Lebanon is serious in meeting at an early stage its commitments to opening up large areas of its trade and approximating its legislation to that of the European Union.
By signalling Lebanon's commitment to economic and social reform, this Agreement will send a clear and positive message to the international and European investment community of the opportunities for direct foreign investment in Lebanon.
The successful outcome of the Paris II donor conference in November last year, organised with great commitment and success by President Chirac, suggests that this message has already struck home.
Of the 18 governments participating, six were Member States and the Commission was also represented at its highest level.
There is a clear interest in seeing that Lebanon weathers the economic storm of post-war recovery, and reduces its debt.
The Agreement is a potent expression of shared values and common objectives.
We are, however, conscious of the concerns expressed by the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee on specific points of the human rights situation in Lebanon.
The agreement provides an additional forum for tackling these concerns.
And I know too the concerns which have been expressed about freedom of the media.
Social and cultural cooperation is also central to the Agreement, in terms of rights of workers, and social dialogue.
Mr President, this morning, in this Chamber, we discussed the plight of the Afghan people, suffering the after-effects of decades of war and in-fighting, and it would be impossible to forget this when taking the floor in this new debate.
I have not forgotten that the Lebanese people have suffered the same hardships and I welcome the fact that at the end of these troubles they have been able to find the necessary resources to begin to rebuild the model of multicultural, multiethnic cooperation you told us about, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and which the whole world admired before the disease that is the fear of otherness, the fear of being dominated, spread there, as it was to spread later on in the Balkans, where I personally was able to observe the devastation.
That is why I can only rejoice in the progress accomplished, which has allowed this association agreement to be concluded with the Republic of Lebanon, about which you rightly said, Commissioner, that it would be political first and foremost.
That is why I unreservedly support the request made by our rapporteur, namely for Resolution No 520 of the United Nations Security Council to be taken into account and the matter of the presence of Syrian troops on Lebanese territory to be subject to the judgment of the Lebanese Parliament, which, as we know, is in favour of complete respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and the political independence of their country.
Mr President, Mr Yiannitsis, Mr Patten, the EU-Lebanon Association Agreement marks a step forward in our long-standing relations.
It has already been pointed out several times that Lebanon is a country which has seen 16 years of civil war and which has now managed once again to turn its ethnic, cultural and religious pluralism into the basis for a peace process: it is a country both complex and important, owing to its history and geopolitical position.
We hope that the closer relations which this Agreement formally marks, will help make this process irreversible and represent further progress in the respect for human rights and the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law.
It is precisely for this reason that the article in the Agreement which refers to human rights must be taken seriously by the Lebanese authorities and the European institutions.
This process should be supported by the MEDA programme, with clear support for the autonomous development of civil society.
The Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon was an extremely important event, but peace was not a consequence.
I would therefore urge us to go further than the - albeit important - decisions of the last Interministerial Conference in Valencia.
By becoming a true institution, the parliamentary assembly should acquire real powers concerning the decisions which this process involves and should be an active participant in the great meeting of cultures.
We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wish to highlight a number of these problems.
The situation in Lebanon is very uncertain and complicated, and the Syrian presence in the country means that the question may sometimes arise as to whether Lebanon is a completely independent state.
I only have to mention the 17 000 missing Lebanese, the restricted freedom of expression, the violence against demonstrating students, the death penalty and, of course, the situation concerning the Palestinian refugees, referred to by quite a few fellow MEPs.
The ELDR Group has tabled a number of amendments concerning, for example, the 200 Lebanese held prisoner in Syria.
The situation concerning these refugees must be clarified.
Lebanon must also ratify the Geneva Convention.
The association agreements are also an important part of the Barcelona Process.
We are therefore voting in favour of this association agreement in the hope that it will lead to development in Lebanon.
We nonetheless feel a certain hesitation in doing so because Lebanon is far from being a democracy, and there are flagrant breaches of human rights.
We also feel a certain unease, or frustration rather, at the fact that there is always talk about human rights clauses that can be applied if a country infringes an association agreement with the EU.
It is even more urgent as the risk of war in Iraq weighs upon relations with the Arab world as a whole.
Europe and Lebanon could play a more active part with regard to compliance with the United Nations resolutions, the creation of a Palestinian State and Israel's full, and universal recognition in the region.
I am thinking in particular of the serious basis constituted by the offer of peace adopted by the Arab countries in Beirut.
Although the war in Lebanon is fortunately in the past, the absence of peace throughout the region is a barrier to genuine reconstruction and development in the country as a whole.
This is especially true in southern Lebanon, where problems of borders with Israel have not been solved.
Lebanon exists in the mind of the Lebanese, but many would like to see a stronger affirmation of their State, which would take place in particular through a truly independent, democratic State, in order to establish and develop coexistence between the Lebanese.
I am thinking in particular of respect for freedom of speech, an independent judiciary, the rights of asylum seekers, those who have disappeared, and the death penalty.
Although Lebanon is still, fortunately, a country of refuge for Palestinians, the absence of a foreseeable fair, sustainable solution aggravates the situation of great social distress in which hundreds of thousands of refugees find themselves.
Access to work or social protection should be guaranteed more effectively, with our help.
The debt is USD 30 billion.
The Lebanese Prime Minister did obtain aid of over EUR 4 billion in Paris last November from some European and Arab countries as well as from international financial institutions.
I still think that modernity and social progress consist of making the focus of Euro-Mediterranean relations human factors rather than goods and capital.
The Euromed civil forum considers the social and economic assessment of the partnership to be negative overall: we should heed the critics!
Mr President, as other Members have pointed out: 17 000 families have no news of their loved ones, parts of the media have been banned, censored by the authorities, journalists have been arrested, the courts have been used for political ends, the intelligence services are ubiquitous, discriminatory measures have been taken against thousands of refugees, and Palestinians in particular, torture has been used despite the fact that Lebanon is a signatory to the Convention against torture, Syria has constantly interfered in the life of a third country, there has been discrimination against women; there is a long list of infringements of human rights as reported, in particular at the hearing held within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
This, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner and President-in-Office of the Council, goes to show the tremendous hope generated by this agreement, as well as the scale of the challenges we must accept in order to respond to these numerous expectations.
The resolution submitted to us on which we shall vote at the same time as the association agreement is a relatively comprehensive text - and I would congratulate the rapporteur on that, moreover - which addresses numerous problems that Lebanon must now face in order to play the role we expect it to play to ensure the stabilisation of the situation throughout the region.
The Verts/ALE Group has duly contributed to this and we, together with other Members, in fact, would like to add a few points that we feel are important today.
We would also like the Commission and the Council to ask Syria and Israel officially for information on Lebanese nationals who are being held in these states.
According to the information provided to us by Solidar, whose spokesman, moreover, was invited to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Israel is allegedly holding 12 Lebanese nationals and 200 nationals of other countries are allegedly being held secretly in Syria.
I believe the European institutions can help to shed light on this matter, which weighs heavily on relations within the region.
The Verts/ALE Group in the European Parliament would also like to draw the attention of the House to the pressure exerted on the Lebanese press.
We call for this country to respect the right of the opposition, which we all know receives extremely poor treatment.
Lastly, we call for the Members of the Lebanese Parliament to be associated with and play an active part in the work of the fora of the future Euro-Mediterranean assembly.
That is clearly a condition if we understand that this agreement with Lebanon is even more important in stabilising the region and finding a solution to the problems in the Middle East.
Mr President, I should like to begin by welcoming the Greek Presidency, which is embarking on its duties here and also the election of a European Ombudsman, who is also Greek.
Mr President, the European Parliament today has the task of delivering its opinion on the conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Lebanon on the other.
One of the most noteworthy aspects of the process opened in Barcelona is that it enables complementarity to be established between the dimension of bilateral cooperation involving the Member States with Mediterranean connections, including Spain, France, Italy and Portugal - although Portugal borders the Atlantic, it has significant economic and geographical links with the Mediterranean countries of the Maghreb - and the multilateral dimension taken on by the European Community, which can and must mutually strengthen one another.
Other types of problem remain, however, which are today entirely undeniable, especially concerning security and the fight against terrorism, but also concerning the fight against corruption and money-laundering as well as promoting democracy and human rights which, in the particular case of Lebanon, are a cause for concern.
We cannot ignore the fact that the political leanings of the Lebanese authorities are still dominated by Syria and that Damascus has a decisive influence over the position of the Lebanese Government in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, despite the Israeli army's withdrawal from Southern Lebanon in May 2000.
Even worse, it maintains a significant military force in Lebanon, of around 30 000 men, in addition to the 300 000 immigrants there, who work mainly in farming and construction.
If we add to this presence - or perhaps we should call it an 'occupation' several more Palestinian refugees, who are by and large poor and poorly integrated into Lebanese society, constituting around 3.5 million people, and the presence in the country's parliament of Hezbullah, the extremist movement - since it cannot be called anything else - it is easy to understand Lebanon's delicate situation, to which the Union must be attentive and in which it must play a moderating role in order to achieve peace, security and development.
We must not forget that Europe is or should be polycentric: it is Nordic, Mediterranean, and Atlantic; it is also ultraperipheral and certainly continental.
It is, however, by balancing its components and respect for its diversity that it will become a Europe that is more democratic, safer, more developed and definitely more respected on the international scene.
The Council also committed itself to the fight against international terrorism.
The two central points of the foreign policy of EU Member States are not compatible with the power base that Hezbollah is forming in Lebanese politics.
The attention being paid to the depressing situation on Israel's northern border in the present resolution of this Parliament deals with the cause and effects and ignores the political reality in situ.
Hezbollah is just as unlikely to be intimidated when it comes to direct and indirect involvement in terrorist activities against the state of Israel, including forming terrorist cells amongst Israeli Arabs and complete identification with the second Palestinian intifada.
Until such time as the EU shows that it is taking these points very seriously in its relations with these countries, I will vote against an Association Agreement with Lebanon.
What makes me even more resolute in my stance is that the European institutions are demanding virtually no genuine guarantees from Beirut regarding the observance of human rights.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have just returned from Lebanon where I went before Christmas with Jean-Marie Le Pen.
In principle we are in favour of developing relations with this country of great culture and ancient traditions, that is so close to Europe in general, and in particular the French-speaking tradition that I, amongst others, represent here.
We can only deal, however, with a sovereign State, a peaceful, honest and impartial State.
A sovereign State naturally means the withdrawal of the Syrian troops, whose presence is no longer justified, as almost all the previous speakers have said, since the Israeli occupation ended in southern Lebanon.
The resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly, in particular, should be followed by practical action and this withdrawal should be complete, just as Syrian pressure on Lebanese domestic policy should cease.
Saying this, I am thinking in particular of the terrible fate of the former leader of the Lebanese forces, Samir Geagea, the only leader of a faction to have taken part in these conflicts who has now been in prison, on military premises, in a building with no light, for eight years.
Nobody there understands, or rather everyone understands only too well, why Samir Geagea is in prison, while the leader Walid Jumblatt, whose excesses were every bit as bad as the worst offenders in this conflict, occupies a quasi-official post.
Lastly, an honest, impartial State means an end to the political racketeering that results all too often from reconstruction in this country ravaged by war.
These are the three conditions for the agreement that we want with all our hearts to reach optimum effectiveness.
Mr President, I was privileged to visit Lebanon for the first time some 20 years ago as a journalist, and have followed the unhappy events in that country over the years.
It was the occasion when the Palestinians were expelled from Jordan by King Hussein and swept into the Lebanon, destroying what had been up till then a haven of relative peace and civilisation in the Middle East.
On my most recent visit there I was encouraged to see that those three great traditions are reasserting themselves in the rebuilding of that country.
The francophone connection is only one of many which we have between the members of the European Union and the rest of the Middle East.
The Lebanon is a focal point from which we can operate and through which we can operate.
Finally, I would point out that it was always through the Lebanon that many of the contacts were made with the other Middle Eastern countries.
With the tensions that we have in the Middle East at the moment, it is essential for us to maintain those links, especially for the Commissioner who, no doubt, has fallen in love with the Lebanon in the same way as many of us have, and for the Commissioner to be able to use the Lebanon as a bridge through which he can talk to sensible, democratically-minded people in the other countries of the Middle East.
Mr President, I also have first-hand experience of Lebanon and to continue using the images used by the previous speaker, I would say that it is possible to be in love with Lebanon but that love, in this case, does not mean turning a blind eye.
I feel that the European Union has negotiated with an official Lebanon, a somewhat theoretical Lebanon, not to say mythical, that the situation in Lebanon today is sadly still a long way from the idyllic visions that some wish to use in order to justify the agreement, and that, fortunately, our debate re-establishes the harsh reality.
More than ten years after the Taf agreements, the Israelis have withdrawn but the Syrians remain and are still very present in a country over which they maintain a protectorate and whose independence they have never really recognised.
Mr President, we are therefore in a paradoxical situation, because an assessment of the Lebanese situation gives rise to a whole string of reasons that would be cause to suspend the agreement if it existed and was still operational.
There have been many years of war with Syria but also with Israel, with external interference and invasions, which have not yet been definitively settled; also a civil war which has devastated social and family relationships, though the International Community's neglect has done damage too.
The Lebanese Government should be acknowledged for having managed to maintain a balance between the parties and for wishing to rebuild a sovereign country in a difficult democratic process, because there are still clear violations of freedom of expression, human rights, social inequality and corruption.
In this connection, when developing relations and projects with Lebanon, we have to persevere and find means to ensure compliance with the agreements and commitments which are made, even if the example of the EU-Israel Agreement and Israel's blatant violation of Article 2, certainly do not provide a guarantee that this will be respected.
Although Europe is Lebanon's main trading partner and one of the important backers supporting its economic modernisation programme, it also guarantees respect for fundamental rights on the road to establishing democratic freedoms.
Freedom of expression has once more been seriously attacked, as shown by the enforced closure of the television channel MTV last September for having allowed the opposition to speak at the time of the by-elections.
Some were probably executed in Lebanon, but no search has been undertaken for the bodies.
In this country where fundamental rights and democratic freedoms are often ignored, Lebanon's people are placing great hope in these agreements as they represent an essential means of pressure for the citizens.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, may I take this opportunity of welcoming you to this plenary session of the European Parliament.
I am therefore all in favour of the references in the draft agreement to promoting the role of women in economic and social development through education and vocational training and facilitating economic investment.
Unfortunately, these references alone are not enough to bring about real progress in respect for women's rights and I am sorry that neither the President-in-Office nor the Commissioner made any reference to this issue.
May I remind you that the European Parliament called in a resolution on respect for women's rights within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation for an express provision on the protection of women's rights, together with a policy for monitoring that protection, similar to the provision applied to the candidate countries which are now about to join the Union.
First, I should like to thank Commissioner Patten for adding some very detailed and useful comments on aspects of the situation on the ground in Lebanon and the policies of the European Union and the Commission's efforts in this direction.
My second comment is that Lebanon was hit by tragedy about twenty years ago.
Lebanon forms part of the whole puzzle of the Middle East and part of European policy on Mediterranean countries.
As you know, a great many measures and a great many decisions have been taken.
The Council weighs all the factors very carefully and I am sure that, as and when it judges that it is expedient and necessary to do so, it will take stronger action.
I have received a motion for a resolution in accordance with Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure on the subject of the debate1 In accordance with the agenda - and I would also go as far as to say in homage to the Greek Presidency - we will proceed to the Commission Statement on the Northern Dimension.
I understand, Mr Patten, that we all have problems with the timetable and I would therefore be grateful if the honourable Members could be as brief as possible, since there are problems with flight connections which affect the Commissioner himself.
The Northern Dimension continues to occupy an extremely important place on the Commission's external relations agenda.
The Commission has been working hard to implement the Northern Dimension Action Plan that was endorsed by the European Council at Feira in June 2000, and to prepare for a new action plan.
The Commission's 2002 Annual Progress Report on the implementation of the Northern Dimension action plan presents a complete overview of these results.
The Commission is by far the largest contributor to the fund, with EUR 50 million over three years, mainly for nuclear-related projects.
In this context much attention is also being devoted to resolving the remaining details of the Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme for the Russian Federation, the so-called MNEPR.
I hope that we are now very close to a solution and that this key agreement can be signed very soon.
Much attention has also been devoted to the Northern Dimension, energy issues, transport, infrastructure, business and trade cooperation and to cooperation in the fight against organised crime.
We have continued to support cross-border cooperation through the Tacis programme, with a total assistance to Northwest Russia between 1996 and 2003 of about EUR 122 million, about half of this being for border crossings.
The Commission has also attached great importance to enhancing the coordination and interoperability between its principal programmes operating in the region (mainly Tacis, Phare and Interreg) in order to facilitate the implementation of joint projects in the Northern Dimension area.
This has already helped bring about a considerable increase in the number of joint projects being presented for Tacis/Interreg or Tacis/Phare funding in 2001-2002.
The final agreement with Russia and Lithuania on the issue of transit to and from the Kaliningrad region is a good example of a concrete success in the EU-Russia relationship that should bring benefits for the wider Northern Dimension region.
We have already provided more than EUR 40 million to the development of Kaliningrad and an additional EUR 25 million is planned for the coming years.
We are determined to assist the Russian authorities in improving living standards and addressing the challenges it poses to the wider region.
The Commission has also been closely following the work of the intergovernmental organisations of the Northern Dimension region, including the Council of the Baltic Sea States (CBSS), the Barents Euro-Arctic Council (BEAC) and the Arctic Council itself.
Building on the positive results already achieved, the Northern Dimension will be further strengthened in the near future.
In the coming years, the Northern Dimension will have to address the impact of European Union enlargement, and focus on enhancing links with the Russian Federation as a neighbour.
On the basis of Guidelines adopted by the Council in October last year, the Commission is preparing the next Northern Dimension Action Plan for the period 2004-2006.
The Commission is willingly taking the lead in preparing this new Action Plan.
But I want to make it clear that success will require an active contribution of all partners concerned with the region and I am sure that the European Parliament will want to play its part in this process.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner Patten, at the start of the 1990s I had the pleasure of participating in a programme of cooperation between a group of Russian democratic forces and one of European non-socialist parties.
The Northern Dimension naturally means cooperation between all the countries in the region: Germany, Poland and the Baltic countries, as well as Finland, Sweden and countries even further away, in such areas as environmental hazards, nuclear safety, infrastructure and the prevention of infectious diseases.
Our most crucial problem, however, is making Russia an integral part of this work.
Ladies and gentlemen, in all honesty how many of us are familiar with conditions in rural and border regions in Northwest Russia or Ukraine?
My experience is obviously based on neighbouring region cooperation between Finland and Russia, but I think that the freely operative NGOs, also referred to in Parliament's motion for a resolution, in Finland are already doing at least as much good work, for example, in patching up Russia's non-existent social security system, as the authorities and the state in their own work.
I believe that we have done a lot of the foundation work since 1999 with a view to getting Russia still more actively involved.
The size of the appropriation and whether it increases will then depend more on our partners in Russia and in other countries in the neighbouring regions than on us.
Mr President, I hope that it was not symbolic when the representative of the Council, the Greek minister, left the Chamber when we began discussing the Northern Dimension.
I really do hope that Greece and Italy, in whose programme there is no mention of the Northern Dimension at all, will also take the Northern Dimension into consideration.
Mr President, I wish to thank Commissioner Patten for allowing Parliament the opportunity, already at this stage of the Northern Dimension Action Plan, to be involved in this work.
The aim must be that the Commission makes a greater commitment to respond to the special questions posed by the EU's northern regions.
The EU's forthcoming Northern Dimension Action Plan must be broad in scope, to make possible political and economic dialogue and action in all sectors of society.
What is more, progress has been made in projects devoted to cooperation on environmental issues.
There are many challenges in the Northern Dimension region, and not least those to do with nuclear power and nuclear waste.
Health and social issues usually go hand in hand.
In connection with the Northern Dimension Action Plan we still have to continue to develop frontier crossing points and obtain Russia's involvement in making it easier to cross borders at current crossing points.
The Commission has already begun work to develop the PHARE, TACIS and Interreg programmes of cooperation.
I welcome the action plan and the effort that both the Swedish presidency and most recently, the Danish presidency, have put in to the Northern Dimension.
It will be about many countries that will now be Member States and the neighbours will be different.
It will involve matters that have to do with the EU's regional and environmental policy.
That means that civil society and Members of this House and other elected representatives need to be properly and fully involved.
The environment and climate in the far north is important to European solidarity.
As a gas pipeline is being built from the Barents Sea to Germany we will also need investment from Member States to prevent environmental damage resulting from gas production.
It sets forth the key issues that the Commission must take account of when it drafts the action plan for the period 2004-2006.
Unfortunately, the countries to hold the presidency this year have not included a mention of the development of the Northern Dimension in the Council's action programme.
Greece and Italy, both countries in the Mediterranean region, are failing in their duty, as countries to hold the presidency, to represent the interests of the EU as a whole.
Something that is of strategic importance is cooperation on energy.
Some pilot projects have been set up in order to solve Russia's environmental problems.
These are positive steps in the right direction in a situation in which we are being called upon to compensate for Russian capitalism's lack of responsibility for nature and people.
The Northern Dimension is furthermore concerned with the fight against poverty in the EU's neighbouring regions.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, I would very much like to welcome you to Parliament to discuss the Northern Dimension with us.
We now hope that in this way Parliament's involvement in the Northern Dimension will become established.
Commissioner, you mentioned some successful projects, and I would like to show you my support in your mention of the financing of the environmental programme.
I believe that we really now have to embark on this project without delay and ensure that Russia does actually see the ratification of this agreement through to the end.
Arctic cooperation is an absolutely essential part of the Northern Dimension and we have managed to address, for example, the concern that the aboriginal peoples in the north have regarding their traditional means of livelihood.
The enlargement of the European Union places the countries of the Northern Dimension in a very special and much changed position.
Everyone is expecting a great deal from this - including strong economic development in particular.
The greater mutual openness shows that there are extremely attractive prospects for cooperation in the economic, ecological and social fields.
Despite some worrying signals from Russia regarding parliamentary democracy, the acceptance of non-indigenous religions and in particular the continuing war in Chechnya, we must still have a positive attitude towards Russia.
The politics of the Northern Dimension is therefore part of our two-track policy.
The action plan may therefore also be relevant to the social democratisation of the territories in question - with Russia first.
We are assuming that Greece will also feel a sense of responsibility towards the Northern Dimension.
The European Union is one of the major donors, possibly the biggest in fact, but cleaning up is taking place pretty slowly there.
It is very important for all of us that this is speeded up.
The territory there in the north is extremely vulnerable, and we will have to accept our responsibility, particularly with regard to Norway and other countries with interests there.
We have seen that there are already numerous councils and forums dealing with the Northern Dimension.
I understand that there are technical problems involved in setting up a budget line of this kind and I would like to know what the Commissioner thinks about this.
Those of my colleagues who have spoken before me have covered quite a lot, so please permit me to focus on a few aspects.
I believe that, in defining the area, which has its own specific problems, its own specific criteria and is undergoing changes of its own, you are attempting something that has real authenticity and which also involves political dimensions such as foreign or security policy.
Mr President, the concept of the Northern Dimension must be understood in a broad sense.
It embraces both the Union's external relations and its internal policies.
Cross-border cooperation is first and foremost bilateral action between the EU and its Member States, on the one hand, and Russia and our other neighbours, on the other hand.
In bilateral cross-border cooperation EU funding is limited to Interreg projects and to a small number of TACIS projects.
This time we are discussing the Northern Dimension on the basis of a statement by the Commissioner in charge of External Relations.
The importance of the Northern Dimension will also grow with regard to internal policies, when the Baltic countries and Poland join the Union.
The list of partners is no less impressive than that of any previous initiative.
Surely it is more than a mere linguistic nuance to say that the efforts at rectifying abuses of this sort must not just be persevered with, but also significantly stepped up.
Because it is in that area that our dependence on Russia is most clearly visible.
If it is made a priority in the next action plan we can also act in the other areas: environment, culture, education and training, health, the transport situation, and the information society.
In this way this whole great idea would gain extra momentum, and not least because the accession of Poland and the Baltic countries to the EU will create more pressure to improve the structure of this Northern Dimension.
As Heidi Hautala said, a good example of this in the area of financing is the environmental programme fund.
The money therefore exists; now it is a question of action.
I welcome a new action plan for the Northern Dimension which will embrace three new Baltic states and Poland as EU members in 2004, Russia, with which I support a privileged status in a common economic space one day, and the EEA states of Iceland and Norway.
An example is Norway's loss of free trade in fish with Poland.
The EEA Agreement is a good agreement but it has its limitations.
I would like also to raise the issue of Belarus, which has borders with four of the Member States that are party to the action plan and, given its union with Russia, might one day become part of the group.
It is important for the EU to maintain its dual-track approach and pressure for democratic reforms there.
But notwithstanding our political differences with that country, we are still committed in areas of mutual interest such as the management of illegal immigration and cross-border crime.
Mr President, in view of the delicate situation in relation to Kaliningrad and the imminent accession of the Baltic States, the Northern Dimension takes on even greater significance.
We have to try to ensure that in all our policies we have as close a relationship with Russia as is possible.
The Northern Dimension has ensured that we are able to focus on developments in the Baltic area, in terms of energy supplies, telecommunications, and economic assistance.
I would therefore be delighted if we could continue that process at the moment, particularly emphasising the importance of Kaliningrad as a major source of difficulties and issues for the European Union to resolve.
With eastward enlargement we will have four new Member States on the shores of the Baltic Sea and the Union's border with Russia will be longer than what it was before.
The reliability of energy management in the Baltic countries will be among the challenges of the future.
One cannot merely rely on gas imported from Russia.
The programme must also show clear links to EU relations with the northern parts of Norway, Iceland, Greenland, the United States of America and Canada.
The Northern Dimension, like the MEDA Programme too, is a matter for the whole of the EU.
I also support the idea that the Northern Dimension should have its own budget heading, which is in accord with my earlier proposals.
When, in 1997, President Ahtisaari was the first to mention the Northern Dimension as a concept, many of those present did not at first know what to do with this mere form of words.
In all this, the benefits to Russia are obvious when one considers the potential for increasing export capacity or our willingness in the environmental field - which is also of course in our own interest - to dig deep into our own resources in order to provide for improvements in Russia.
The second point I want to make is that we must at all cost prevent any mishap involving oil or gas in the far north.
Quite a bit has already been said about the submarines that are rusting away in north-western Russia and the plans we have for dealing with them, for which I would like to give the Commission every credit.
I do, though, want to suggest to the Commission that they should make a statement setting out what disarmament measures they and the Council are jointly considering, what has been decided on, and what is being done through our Budget, so that this House can have a debate on all these measures, which we are co-financing.
The Commission deserves thanks for having organised a major disarmament conference in Brussels at the beginning of December, which I attended, and I am amazed at the vast number of initiatives that there are.
I also want to discuss the strategy in relation to Belarus within the framework of the Northern Dimension.
That is why it is important for the European Union, led by the Council of Ministers and Commissioner Patten, to implement a strategy that sustains a vigorous and long-term critique of the lack of human rights in Belarus.
This dialogue should also take place with a view to stimulating economic development in Belarus and strengthening civil society.
The Baltic is not far from being a mare nostrum within the European Union.
It is an economic area that must be developed.
The prominence given to the Baltic Sea in all EU policy must increase, whilst at the same time its importance as part of the EU's Northern Dimension lessens.
Naturally, Russia in the future will be an important part of Northern Dimension content, but west and east are close together at the Arctic Circle.
The EU should take the decision to join the Arctic Council, whose members are currently the United States of America, Canada, Iceland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia.
EU policy on climate change could in this way obtain a new basis internationally on which to build practical action.
To close this debate, I have received four motions for resolutions presented in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure The next item is Questions to the Council (B5-0001/2003).
Question No 2 by Manuel Medina Ortega (H-0839/02): Subject: Passage of oil tankers through the waters of the Azores, the Canaries and Madeira In view of the disastrous impact which the black tide caused by the wreck of the Prestige is having on the coast of Galicia, and bearing in mind the threat to the islands of the Azores, the Canaries and Madeira, what measures will the Council adopt to guarantee the application of safety rules in the waters surrounding these three archipelagos?
The Council had the opportunity - last December - to examine with the European Parliament the problems caused by repeated accidents of this sort during a general debate on the Prestige disaster.
Having expressed then its regret with regard to the disaster caused by the shipwreck of the Prestige tanker off the coast of Galicia last November, it can now affirm that all the Member States and the Commission have decided to improve their cooperation, in a general bid to make ships safe and prevent pollution at sea.
The new European Maritime Safety Agency is proof positive of this determination.
On 6 and 9 December, the Council took measures, in the form of Council conclusions, on certain aspects of maritime transport and environmental protection.
Parliament and the Council approved five of the six acts proposed by the Commission in the Erika I and Erika II packages of legislative measures under the codecision procedure.
The dates for the entry into force of these legislative acts have been selected for two reasons: to ensure they are applied as quickly as possible and to allow the port authorities to set up control capabilities where the port state is responsible for controls.
The Nice European Council, in a bid to strengthen the Union's strategy on safety at sea, invited the Member States 'to implement in advance the measures approved by the fifteen Member States where they do not require an international framework'.
In its conclusions approved on 6 December 2002, and in points 1, 5 and 8 in particular, the Council invited the Commission 'as a matter of urgency, to present a proposal concerning an accelerated phasing out of single hull tankers', called upon Member States 'to accelerate the transposition of the amended directive with a view to applying the enhanced control measures as soon as possible, and preferably before 1 January 2003' and urged the Member States 'to establish as early as possible and no later than by 1July 2003 plans for the identification of places of refuge for ships in distress'.
The Council would emphasise that the measures taken by the Council and Parliament apply to all ports in the Member States of the Community and to their territorial waters and therefore cover the Azores, the Canaries and Madeira.
I was rapporteur for one of the reports on the Erika I package.
The Erika accident took place on 19 December 1999.
I believe that the Commission did its work perfectly, because in March 2000 it presented us with this first package of measures.
Parliament worked on it and, with more delay than we would have liked, we finally achieved a proposal in December 2000 - a year after the Erika accident - on which we had reached consensus with the then representative of the Council, the French Transport Minister.
The day after that Council, in Parliament, as a result of the actions of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the whole agreement we had reached became deadlocked, and the first Erika package was not approved until a year later (December 2001).
And the worst thing of all is that it was not just the Group of the European People's Party that held up this Erika I package, but also the Council, which delayed its common position with regard to double hulls until August 2001.
While we are facing another disaster, which took place in November 2002 - three years after the Erika accident - the Council and the Member States have still not brought the measures in the Erika I and Erika II packages into force.
As far as maritime safety is concerned, the Council of Ministers reacted at once to the situation and is keen to push ahead and take measures to prevent this sort of natural disaster in the future.
You will understand better if we imagine this in the context of your own country.
The United States and Canada have done so, outside their own territorial waters, and I believe that the European Union would have the power to do so.
I have already pointed out that the Council and the Greek Presidency are very keen to push this measure through.
We were in full agreement with the decisions taken by the Council in December and will be setting the relevant procedures in motion as quickly as possible.
These are very specific, very fine distinctions both from a legal viewpoint and from a political and practical viewpoint but, as I said, they take the debate in another direction.
Mr President, I respected your authority at all times, since I did not know whether or not I could ask a supplementary question.
The Greek Presidency has taken a stand at Council level, that stand being that we need a committee to conduct an overall analysis of this entire affair, of how it happened and all the implications, so that the decisions which the Council is required to take are based on an unremitting, exhaustive, objective analysis of the whole affair.
As I have already pointed out, the Council acknowledged in December 2002 that the transportation of certain substances by sea continued to pose a serious threat both to the maritime and coastal environment and to the people dependent on them.
The Council also stressed that the principle of prevention, the principle of compensating for environmental disasters at source and the polluter pays principle need to be applied in an appropriate manner to maritime transport.
There are various approaches to solving this problem: one is that adopted by the United States in the wake of the Exxon Valdez accident in 1989, by creating the Oil Pollution Act, in 1990.
As I mentioned earlier, the problem with these accidents, with these disasters, is that they require a joint approach; these are issues which, by their very nature, require a global approach.
Naturally, no one can accept that an accident of this sort should lead to a disaster of such magnitude.
The Council wants to promote and is promoting solutions and I think it is vital to have proposals and ideas from all sides as to how to deal with this problem, a problem which does not just have to do with naval architecture; it also has to do with a whole series of other issues - economic, social, institutional and organisational issues - and how these issues should be dealt with at political and European Union level.
The Council recalls in particular that, on 20 December, it unanimously adopted a regulation instituting specific measures to compensate the Spanish fisheries, shellfish industry and aquaculture affected by the oil spills from the Prestige.
The Commission presented its proposal on 19 December.
The European Parliament gave its opinion on the same day.
The aims of the proposal are to help compensate the damages, by a contribution of the Community.
Financial assistance is foreseen through the reallocation of funds including reprogramming the Spanish share (around EUR 30 million) of the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance.
Part of the budgetary resources (around EUR 30 million) for the conversion of the Spanish vessels that were up to 1999 dependent on the fishing agreement with Morocco will also be used for the reparation of the damages in question.
At its meeting on 19 December 2002, the Council issued the following statement: 'The Council, having in mind the serious accident of the oil tanker Prestige off the north west coast of Spain, welcomes the steps taken for the purpose of the rapid adoption of the draft framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
In this context, the Council notes the conclusions of the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2002 regarding maritime safety/marine pollution that welcomes the action undertaken by the Commission to confront the consequences derived of that event and 'its intention to examine the need for further specific measures' and, among them, 'questions relating to liability and the corresponding sanctions'.
There has been much talk in the Council and elsewhere about the problems of dealing with terrorism, yet we forget that such a danger could exist on our seas just as easily as in the air.
If for example a terrorist attack using chemical, biological or nuclear weapons were to be launched at sea, a coastguard could be the first line of response.
It has always been in the Council's remit to consider ways of addressing the public's fears.
I agree with the honourable Member that new phenomena and new problems call for new responses and that these responses need to be global responses which cover as many aspects of the problem as possible.
I think that, from what I said earlier in connection with this question and previous questions, the conclusion is that we need to find global responses to prevent these situations from reoccurring, that resources need to be made available - and decisions on such resources have been taken - and that we need to look at the causes of these horrendous problems and have the imagination and sensitivity needed to find really innovative, effective solutions.
I would remind the honourable Members in general that during this Question Time, specific questions must be put for one minute.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have spoken here of the fact that the Council has decided to speed up the entry into force of ports of refuge - I believe that this is a correct and necessary measure - and that it has not taken a decision in relation to the European coastguard service.
I would like this service to be set up as soon as possible, as well as a compensation fund for pollution accidents similar to the one they have in the United States.
We need committees to examine why these accidents happened, the problems they created and the action needed when these situations arise which are so hard to manage.
I said that it is not the Council's place to express an opinion on proposals relating to the creation of a European coastguard which have been submitted to the European Convention.
This is an independent institutional body, an independent institution and we cannot interfere in its discussions.
Having said which, if the European Commission submits a proposal, the Council will obviously examine it and take a decision in the usual manner.
Question No 5 by Alexandros Alavanos (H-0837/02): Subject: Settlement in Cyprus and accession to the European Union An EU working document drafted with a view to the decisions to be taken in Copenhagen has been published in an Athens newspaper (TA NEA 3 December 2002), causing great concern.
This document, which the newspaper claims is to be discussed in principle at COREPER level and by the Council of Foreign Ministers, refers to the accession of Cyprus and makes provision for two possible scenarios.
The first envisages accession of the island as a whole, provided a settlement in principle of the Cyprus problem, based on the Annan plan, is signed prior to Copenhagen.
Accession negotiations with Cyprus were completed on 13 December at the European Council in Copenhagen.
Cyprus is due to be accepted as a new Member State of the European Union on 1 May 2004.
On the question of unity, the European Union welcomes the commitment by both sides to continue negotiations, with a view to finding an overall solution to the Cyprus problem by the end of February 2003 on the basis of the proposals made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
If these efforts prove successful, the Council will decide unanimously, on the basis of a Commission proposal, on the adjustments needed to Cyprus's terms of accession to the European Union in order to accommodate the Turkish-Cypriot community.
I appreciate that this question is out of date but that is because I had to submit it about two months ago, before the European Council in Copenhagen.
Minister, you know our party's position on the accession of Cyprus to the European Union.
It is just that the acquis communautaire cannot be applied in one part of Cyprus.
I must point out that the Council does not comment on judicial proceedings in Member States.
Nor is the Council in a position to express an opinion on the monitoring system set up under the European Convention on Human Rights.
This Convention was adopted under the aegis of the Council of Europe.
Similarly, the international system set up to monitor the application of the Convention by its signatories also operates under the aegis of the Council of Europe.
The Council does not consider its duties to include commenting on how international human rights monitoring systems set up by international organisations function.
As for the proposal for a framework decision on fixing common standards regarding procedural safeguards for persons accused in criminal proceedings throughout the European Union, as announced by the Commission, the Council can assure the honourable Member that it will examine the Commission proposal closely as and when it is submitted.
The Minister is right.
I do not want to dwell on the experience of my own constituents in Greece, but I will just start by saying that there was relief that the appeal court in Greece recognised the planespotters' innocence: so the justice system did work in the end and we are all very grateful for that.
But certainly this and many other cases show that we do need to improve our criminal justice standards overall, throughout the European Union, on matters like the availability of interpretation and legal assistance and indeed judicial independence.
I should add that I am critical of my own Member State, the United Kingdom, which is the only one of the 15 to subject people to detention without trial under anti-terrorism legislation so I am not criticising others while sparing my own country.
He said he could not comment on the European Convention on Human Rights but I think we are also talking about the implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights is one of the issues being discussed by the European Convention.
As a national minister, rather than as a member of the Council, I should like to point out that we support the implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Freedoms and I trust and hope that the other Member States will do likewise.
Speaking again as a member of the Council, as I said: if the Commission considers there is a need for any such initiatives, which are of fundamental importance to people facing charges, especially in other countries, we shall of course examine them very closely.
Mr President-in-Office, this question raises the matter of safeguards, but within the context of harmonised criminal legislation in Europe.
This is a very serious problem for a great many citizens of the European Union, who cross the border from one country to another and come up against a very different set of laws, especially in the case of offences - I am thinking, for example, of young people using hashish or other soft drugs - which may land them in jail in one country and barely even qualify as an offence in another.
May I point out that these issues relate to a pillar which the European Union has only recently started to develop and that it has to act within very specific limits.
I repeat that the Council will examine any proposals which are compatible with the institutional system of the European Union, because there is no going beyond those limits.
The Council decided in the first half of 2002 that the European Police Academy would be set up in Denmark temporarily, pending a decision on its final seat.
The plan for the management of the external borders of the Member States of the European Union, approved by the Council at its meeting on 12 and 13 June 2002, makes provision, in the final paragraph, for the setting up of a European Corps of Border Guards.
The common unit, known as 'SCIFA +', immediately undertook to apply the management plan and met five times during the Danish Presidency.
One of these meetings was also attended by the candidate countries.
So the first question is: when is a decision going to be taken about the Academy's eventual location?
My reply to the question of when a final decision will be taken is that it depends on when the Member States agree.
The question of 'where' will be decided following consultations with our other partners and it is not my place to say where this sort of force should be based.
Question No 8 by Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou (H-0875/02): Subject: Initiatives in favour of SMEs At the Barcelona European Council Member States were asked to speed up the implementation of the European Charter for SMEs and the Commission was asked to draw up a Green Paper on the entrepreneurial spirit and SMEs.
As the honourable Member knows, encouraging and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises is one of the Greek Presidency's priorities under the Lisbon strategy.
The Commission has announced that the Green Paper on the entrepreneurial spirit and SMEs to which the honourable lady refers will be submitted shortly.
In addition, the Commission's recent communication on industrial policy in an enlarged Europe, which will also be examined in detail during the Greek Presidency, emphasises the central role played by SMEs in encouraging industrial momentum and innovative ideas.
Improving the general situation of SMEs and, more importantly, the entrepreneurship which attaches to SMEs, is of vital importance to any present-day industrial or business policy.
In addition to the Green Paper, the spring European Council will also evaluate the application of the European Charter for SMEs, using the procedure provided for in the charter itself, taking account, needless to say, of any demands by the European Parliament.
I think it really is crucial and important to the Lisbon process that we evaluate our policy towards small and medium-sized enterprises, which is why I am asking, Mr President-in-Office, if you have anything new to report.
The thinking behind the Greek Presidency's stand on this issue is precisely that: that small and medium-sized enterprises are an important body of activity to the European economy as a whole.
Following the European Council meeting in Gothenburg, the European Union's aim is to complete enlargement negotiations on time, so that the acceding states will be able to participate in the 2004 European Parliament elections as members, and this aim was in fact implemented with the decisions taken in Copenhagen.
The accession date of 1 May 2004 agreed in Copenhagen achieves this aim, while allowing time for the Accession Treaty to be signed, time which the European Council felt was needed.
The conclusions of the European Council in Copenhagen state that Commissioners from the new Member States will join the current Commission as from the day of accession on 1 May 2004.
After the nomination of a new President of the Commission by the European Council, the newly elected European Parliament will approve a new Commission that should take office on 1 November 2004.
These arrangements will guarantee the full participation of the new Member States in the institutional framework of the Union and the operating costs of their participation in the Union's institutions will be dealt with under the appropriate decision-taking procedures.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen - even though there are, I believe, only two or three Members present at the moment - I wish to compliment you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for, in the now four years that I have been putting in-depth questions on a regular basis, nobody has managed to say so little in response to the question as you have just done.
My question was not about the whole range of things you talked about; on the contrary, it was very specific.
I am sorry to have to say this, but perhaps it is the custom in Greece to be ill-prepared to answer questions, although that is a custom unknown here in this House.
May I point out to the honourable Member that, when it makes its decisions, with all due respect for the institutional framework of the European Union, the Council will of course take account of the expected financial costs - the cash as you so nicely put it.
But the Council is obliged to comply with the institutional procedures of the European Union and the consequences of the accession of the Member States on the specific dates set.
Question No 10 by Konstantinos Alyssandrakis (H-0880/02): Subject: Attempts to overthrow the legally elected President of Venezuela Following the failed coup d'etat in Venezuela, attempts by the economic and political establishment of the country, together with its international allies (USA etc.) to overthrow President Chavez are intensifying.
The ?U is monitoring the situation in Venezuela closely and has made its position clear, both in public and to its partners and the authorities involved in efforts to negotiate a peaceful and constitutional solution to the political crisis in Venezuela.
I would draw your attention in particular to the statements made by successive presidencies of the European Union on 12 April and 10 October 2002, by mission leaders on 8 December and by the High Representative on 19 December.
Recently, on 23 December, the presidency repeated the EU's position in a declaration stating that the European Union was continuing to monitor internal developments in Venezuela closely with mounting concern.
The European Union is urging the institutions and people of Venezuela to underpin efforts to find a peaceful and constitutional solution to the crisis, so that the stability of the country can be restored and economic progress and social development promoted, with due respect for democratic principles and the rule of law.
Finally, the Council would point out that, in its resolution of 16 December, the Permanent Council of the OAS urged all sectors of society to preserve the free exercise of the essential elements of democracy to promote a constitutional, democratic, peaceful and electoral solution.
Our group organised an event yesterday which was attended by guests from the Venezuelan Parliament, who gave us some idea of the situation in Venezuela.
The fact that the European Union is carefully monitoring the situation from afar, as you said, and is talking about constitutional solutions at a time when it is crystal clear who comes within the framework of the constitution of the Republic of Venezuela and who does not - I would remind you of the position taken during last year's Spanish Presidency by the Spanish Government, which basically welcomed the coup against President Chavez - demonstrates that the behaviour of the European Union is not so very different from the behaviour of the United States which, on the face of it at least, is also sticking to a 'watch and wait' line.
As I said, the Council is keen to see the constitution and the institutional power of the constitution and of legitimate peace procedures upheld in order to resolve the internal crisis in Venezuela and it will continue to move in the same direction and with the same philosophy.
It has been reported that at least six European countries will be used to train Iraqi opposition forces, and the Hungarian Government has confirmed the existence of an official American request to use the Taszar base for training 4 500 Iraqis 'as translators and administrators'.
The honourable Member is aware of the conclusions of the Copenhagen European Council on Iraq.
As you know, the UN has been carrying out weapons inspections in Iraq under Resolution 1441 since 27 November.
The whole point of this resolution is to give Iraq a chance to disarm peaceably.
The key to a peaceful settlement lies in the proper implementation of Resolution 1441 and, more to the point, in active cooperation with the UN inspectors on the part of Saddam Hussein.
The UN Security Council is still the main forum for resolving the Iraqi issue.
We have listened to the prime minister of Greece and the President-in-Office both today and yesterday and, what can I say, we are speechless.
The Council has not taken a stand on the USA's missile defence plans, nor has any Member State taken a stand on this issue in the Council.
However, the Member States of the European Union support the resolution on bilateral strategic nuclear arms reductions and the new strategic framework submitted by the United States and the Russian Federation at the 57th General Assembly of the United Nations.
The resolution passed unanimously by the General Assembly on 22 November 2002 refers to the building of the new strategic relationship between the United States and the Russian Federation following the expiry of the ABM Treaty.
The question is: will the Council intervene to try and make the United States reverse its decision to put missiles in space, with all the dangers that implies?
You know what the procedure and process for promoting foreign policy issues is at European Union level.
I therefore stand by them and I think that, in what I have said, I have replied to the questions put to me on this issue.
Since they deal with similar subjects, Questions Nos 13 and 14 will be taken together.
The issues raised by the honourable Members have been raised on numerous occasions during political dialogue with Russia.
On the other hand, the constant presence of Council of Europe experts at the Office of the Special Representative of the President of the Russian Federation, in order to safeguard human rights and political rights and freedoms in Chechnya, is fairly encouraging.
It proves that there are Russian authorities working to resolve the issues raised by the ?U and other agencies.
As far as the situation of people moved from Chechnya to Ingushetia is concerned, the ?U has accepted additional assurances on the part of the Russian authorities that they will not be forced to return against their will.
We can only hope that the recent replacement of the head of Russian military operations in Chechnya sent the military establishment a clear message that the law must be obeyed by everyone without exception.
We need to understand the general climate of fear and insecurity among the Chechen people, as well as the anxiety of the Russian authorities, especially after the attack on Grozny on 27 December 2002.
With all this and the unhappy political situation, due importance must be attached to efforts by both the Russian Parliament and the Government to impose adequate political control on military action in Chechnya.
Finally, the ?U is currently examining its position and its strategy for the forthcoming 59th Assembly of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
The reports by the journalist Anna Politkovskaja have been shocking to read, the horrific deeds of the army continue to go unpunished, and the enforced evacuation of the refugee camps in Ingushetia goes on.
I agree with the honourable Member's position - there was no supplementary question - that the Council too has the same keen awareness of developments in Chechnya and is trying, through constant contact, cooperation and consultations with Russia and the UN Commission on Human Rights, to push things in the right direction.
Firstly I would like to wish the Greek minister much success with the Presidency over the next six months.
And, if you will excuse me saying so, it is a statement that has nothing to do with the reality in situ.
I would like to ask the Greek Presidency very specifically whether it believes that it is possible for the Council to take steps in a creative manner to bring about a political solution to the Chechen problem by means of negotiations between all the parties concerned.
The Council is taking the action I referred to, precisely because it considers that there are serious problems with the human rights situation in Chechnya which need to be addressed, and it is bringing all the influence it can to bear.
As regards agreements between Russia and the Council through internal consultation, these issues regularly appear on the Council's agenda and it has to see how and to what extent it can wield any influence so that we really do achieve positive results.
Even though he had a visa, the German ex-minister Norbert Blm was sent back by the Russian authorities while he was on his way to Chechnya, and the delegation from this Parliament was barred from the Duma.
The Russians can get first-hand information in the European Union anywhere and at any time.
We want our Russian partners to accord us the same right of being able to inform ourselves where and as things are happening.
This question echoes the questions worded in more general terms by previous honourable Members.
We too, by which I mean the Council, are extremely worried about the problems there and we have the same political objectives as those mentioned by the honourable Members.
Mr Yiannitsis, I am very grateful for your cooperation with us throughout this afternoon and we will see you for Question Time next month in Strasbourg.
This was to take place before June 2003, which is why the results of this study have still not been implemented.
In the resolution, the European Parliament chooses, in spite of this, to anticipate the study and to ask the Convention to look into the possibilities of finding a legal basis for a European Corps of Border Guards, and the Council to set up such a force.
The Employment Committee's report has considerably expanded this framework.
The organisation of health care systems, their funding and planning are, of course, matters for the Member States.
The family, the role of community groups and volunteers who can provide support services and the introduction of a respite care grant for dependent older persons must form part of this health strategy.
I support the Commission's assessment that the EU has an overall health situation and health care system that are among the best in the world.
Because this is a communication that achieved the broad consensus of the various parties involved, I should like to reiterate my support for the Commission's conclusions and for the aims proposed for developing practical policies to achieve active ageing and the involvement of all interested parties in defining policies in the field of social protection, inclusion and employment.
Bearing in mind the need to respond to the problem of ageing in a way that ensures not only economic growth but also financial sustainability, and in line with the strategy adopted by the Gothenburg Council of June 2001, the Member States' targets must be to achieve increased rates of employment, to reduce public debt in order to compensate for increased spending on pensions and healthcare and to reform pension schemes.
It is waiting for the two sides to agree and, together with the European Commission, is looking to see what aspects of the acquis communautaire might clash with the plan.
Transitional periods, which are a standard occurrence, even during negotiations with candidate countries, and which are being accepted or may be accepted in this case, and marginal deviations of no particular significance to the acquis, which the European Commission has said it can cope with in order to facilitate a solution to the Cyprus problem, provided of course that both the Greek Cypriot and the Turkish Cypriot sides agree, could be incorporated into the final solution without causing any particular problems to the dynamics and results of the final solution.
