The Commission adopted on 18 September 2008 a proposal for a European Union Drugs Action Plan 2009-2012, and a report on the final evaluation of the EU Drugs Action Plan 2005-2008 was annexed.
The evaluation was conducted by the European Commission in the first half of 2008 in line with Action 45.3 of the subsequent Action Plan.
The use of cocaine is showing an upward trend in some Member States.
It is on supply that I should like to give my opinion.
In addition, we are extremely concerned about the local disputes occurring between gangs which, in some Member States, are fighting for control of the drugs market.
I would ask you to clarify for me, as far as possible, what specific actions are proposed with regard to cooperation between the Member States and between the police and judicial authorities of the Member States, on the one hand, and between the Member States and the producing countries, in particular, the cocaine-producing countries, on the other.
The inspections have shown that the competent authorities, in particular in Shandong Province, are sufficiently well structured to guarantee compliance with Community legislation as regards heat-treated poultry meat products.
As a result of this exercise, the Chinese authorities have demonstrated to the Commission services that they can certify that consignments of heat-treated poultry meat products being exported to the European Union were produced in accordance with Community requirements and come only from Shandong Province.
The problem is that this year, there were supposed to be six inspections conducted in China, and of these not one has been carried out to date.
The authorities in this province are responsible for quality and also rules of origin.
But what the Commission can do in its inspections - and I was told that the next inspection will take place next year, so it has already been planned - is to verify that the administrative systems are capable of controlling how this poultry is produced and what the level of animal health protection is.
So far, we are convinced that the quality of poultry products from China is satisfactory, and the next province is, as I have already mentioned, also willing to come.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The Commission recalls that Article 146 of the EC Treaty establishes the European Social Fund in order to improve employment opportunities for workers in the internal market and thereby to contribute to raising the standard of living.
The first set of reports should be available in early 2009.
In addition, Article 159 of the EC Treaty provides that the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions every three years on progress made towards achieving economic and social cohesion.
The next Cohesion Report will be presented in 2010.
I believe, however, that this is the most important to our people.
This also includes the European Court of Auditors and our DG, so there are different layers of control as well.
In the matters referred to by the honourable Member, the Commission has been informed by OLAF that it is aware of on-going cases in Germany and Greece but that, until now, OLAF's direct assistance in matters involving Siemens in Germany and/or Greece in respect of structural funds has not been requested by the judicial authorities of either Member State.
In addition, the Commission would refer to the reply already given to the honourable Member's written question, which stipulated that, according to Article 3 of Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96, economic operators are not being controlled by both the Commission and Member States' authorities at the same time and on the basis of the same facts, according to Community sector regulations or national legislation.
Besides, the Commission may, at any moment, start an infringement procedure against the Member States, on the basis of Article 226 of the EC Treaty, if there are sufficient elements indicating an infringement of Community public procurement law.
Do you intend, as the competent Commissioner, to ask OLAF to investigate the matter or do you intend to do nothing, because you are afraid of the colossus called Siemens?
Vice-President of the Commission. - No, I am not afraid of Siemens and I will happily send OLAF to investigate these cases, but of course there is a clear legal framework in which we can operate and can go to investigate.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The Lisbon Treaty contains three main provisions of the amended Treaty on the functioning of the European Union which deal with administrative affairs: Article 197 on administrative cooperation, Article 298 on an open, efficient and independent European administration and Article 336 on the Staff Regulations.
Article 197 provides for the Union to take measures, excluding any harmonisation, to support the efforts of Member States to improve their capacity to implement Union law.
The Commission points out that the British House of Lords concluded in a special report that there was no evidence of widespread corruption within the Commission and that the level of fraud against the EU budget is no higher than in comparable public spending programmes, including in Great Britain.
As concerns the Commission, 15 members of staff were subject to disciplinary measures in 2007, compared to an average of five staff members between 2004 and 2006.
Vice-President of the Commission. - As I said, we have some cases running but so far we have not completed any criminal cases during the last six years.
We have lifted immunity - for criminal cases in courts - from 35 people, and so far half of them have been acquitted and the cases have been closed.
Member of the Commission. - Yes, it is true that we have been aiming to make a proposal in the autumn of this year, but you have to understand that, in a project as ambitious as the CCCTB, it is not possible to predict exactly when we will be ready to make the proposal, as the timing of the proposal depends on the finalisation of the impact assessments and its evolution by the Commission.
Then you will understand our position.
The joint pilot project on Safe and Secure Trade Lane has been running since November 2007 with the participation of three ports, Shenzhen in China, Rotterdam in the Netherlands and Felixstowe in the United Kingdom.
China has, in the meantime, adopted and implemented, as of 1 April 2008, its own AEO legislation that appears very similar to the European Community concept.
The EC and China are also enhancing cooperation in other important areas.
The trade deficit between the EU and China totalled EUR 160 million in 2007 to the detriment of the European Union.
To a large degree, this deficit is the outcome of incomplete customs cooperation between the EU and China.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr Ó Neachtain, I am afraid that I cannot give you an immediate, concrete response as you would like.
As soon as we have finished reviewing the consultations, if you would like, I will inform you straight away, and in any case we will be presenting our report on this whole sector before the end of the year, as I said earlier.
My office and my staff are available to provide you with all the necessary information to enable you to report to your electorate. (EL) Commissioner, bearing in mind what you have just said, will it be possible to evaluate the security requirements of each Member State and of regional airports - because that was the question - where there is a large number of them, such as on the Greek islands and in Italy, Spain and Portugal?
Madam President, I would like to say to those Members who cannot, due to the rules of procedure, receive answers to the questions they would like to ask, that my offices are available to provide any information they may require that it is in our power to give in response to their queries.
As regards the issue of island airports, the Commission is also reviewing this issue in the context of the answers that have been given.
You know how much the Commission values regions, such as the islands of your own country of origin, but also in countries that I myself am more familiar with, that can only be reached by plane or boat.
The Commission therefore gives much consideration to these links.
This safeguard is guaranteed by Community legislation on the internal transport market.
My question is therefore a political question which goes beyond financing: do you believe that the European Union should also play a political role here?
I would like to thank the honourable Member for having replied to me in my own language.
I can therefore reassure you, as regards your concerns, that our aim is to help these citizens without distorting the market or competition.
This is true in particular of the November 2005 proposals on the third maritime safety package.
This success was also down to the European Parliament's insistence, its commitment, the fact that it made its voice heard, together with that of the Commission, in order to achieve a more comprehensive regulation safeguarding public safety, in all senses, including on our seas, environmental protection, and accident liability.
I can assure you that, as far as the Commission's commitment is concerned, we will continue to monitor the situation with care and attention, including through the work of our agency in Lisbon, to ensure that all Community legislation is always complied with and, above all, to ensure that our seas are ever more secure, with joint legal and operational action in all seas within the competence of the European Union.
The former mayor of Milan, Gabriele Albertini, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, can testify to all this: through this action plan, we will ensure that all of the information we have, all of the advice, all of the ideas, all of the suggestions, can be made available to all cities, above all the big cities with traffic problems.
The action plan will also assist policy makers at local, regional and national level, in full respect - I repeat, full respect - of the principle of subsidiarity.
There can be no easy answer to this question.
I was a municipal councillor in Rome for five years whilst I was an MEP and I dealt with these same issues.
I think that the European Union, from this point of view, has once again insisted on the principle of subsidiarity.
In my opinion, in local public transport, this should be a principle that we all keep to, and I believe we want to do so.
