author. - (PL) Mr President, we have been waiting for quite a long time for the oral question on Varosha, in the Famagusta area, to appear on the European Parliament's agenda.
The authors of the petition stressed that 30 years have passed since Famagusta was occupied by the Turkish army and the district of the town known as Varosha was closed off.
The authors of the petition propose in particular that Varosha should be returned to its original inhabitants, under regulations to be adopted by the international community, and in particular by the European Union.
The authors of the petition declare their support for attempts to help Turkish Cypriots who, from a legal and social point of view, form an integral part of Cyprus.
The authors of the petition also proposed that part of the European Union funding earmarked for providing support to Turkish Cypriots should be paid into a special fund managed by a non-governmental organisation, in which both communities would be equal stakeholders, under the auspices of the European Union and the supervision of the European Commission.
On 27 February 2006, the General Affairs Council decided to call on the Commission to undertake further efforts in the field of direct trade for the benefit of the Turkish Cypriot communities, on the basis of negotiations which took place during the Luxembourg presidency, when the matter of the closed area of Varosha and the port was raised, together with matters relating to free trade.
This petition, and the oral question resulting from it, addresses this very problem, which is a fundamental issue for that part of Europe and has consequences for the whole of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would very much like to request a response and I hope that this response will satisfy the authors of the petitions, as well as the Committee on Petitions and the European Parliament.
The Commission supports the United Nations in these efforts and encourages the parties concerned to resume talks on such a settlement.
The return of Varosha to its lawful inhabitants is one of the key elements in the UN-led process.
The Finnish formula would create a genuine win-win situation for both communities and all parties concerned.
Over the past 42 years there has been enough talk of 'red lines' and 'blackmail' in the eastern Mediterranean.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the Famagusta question is primarily a humanitarian one.
For 32 years now, over 30 000 people have dreamt day and night about going back to their homes.
The movement of refugees from Famagusta consists of displaced citizens from what has been a ghost town for 32 years.
This state of affairs continues today, 33 years later.
The Turkish Cypriots, even though they have absolutely nothing to lose by returning the town which has been deserted for 32 years to its lawful inhabitants, are safeguarding the right to engage in export trade via the port.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, Famagusta is being held hostage.
Famagusta only enjoyed independence for 14 years.
It had a population of 60 000 and 15 000 daily commuters.
I can see no good in this situation.
Opening up Varosha in line with the petitioners' request, though, could help people who have been waiting for thirty-two years to return there and would also make it possible for them to coexist in a new way, one that can open up the prospect of an overall solution.
We owe it to them to stand alongside them in every way and secure them that to which they are entitled and for which they have been waiting for so long, namely that Famagusta should once more become the flourishing place of commerce and culture that it has been throughout its history - a history filled with proud traditions which, let it be hoped, may be re-established in the future. (Applause) (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 32 years after the military invasion and continuing occupation, the photographs emerging from the sealed-off area of Varosha, which is controlled solely by the Turkish army, bear irrefutable witness to the Cyprus tragedy, breaches of international and European law and the collapse of European democratic civilisation.
