2006 Annual report of the EIB (debate) The next item is the report by Jean-Pierre Audy on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control on the European Investment Bank's annual report for 2006.
The EIB, which was set up by the Treaty of Rome, celebrates its fiftieth anniversary in 2008.
Concerning support for the European Union in financing investment, where needs have been estimated at EUR 600 billion for the trans-European transport networks alone, I suggest that a reflection be carried out on the role of the European Union in terms of the development of our territory.
Not only have we already made some agreements with the European Investment Bank, which have been approved by the Council and Parliament, to do more with the same budgetary resources in areas such as trans-European networks or research and development policy, but also, in the context of the review of the Community budget that we will propose at the end of 2008 or the beginning of 2009 for debate, we are looking at extending these new funding mechanisms, and the resulting increase in capacity for action through the budgetary resources available, to other priority areas such as energy and climate change.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (BG) The report is an example of good cooperation between the European Parliament and this financial institution which has the task to contribute for a balanced and sound development of the Community by using capital market tools and its own resources.
Recently, for instance, a loan of EUR 100 billion to a large-scale mining project in Congo came under heavy criticism owing to all kinds of major irregularities, such as a lack of transparency in the negotiation process and in the final award of the contract.
Since 2000, the European Investment Bank has already invested more than EUR 700 million in all manner of mining projects in Africa.
Mr Audy, this is certainly an area in which the EIB is eager to continue its action.
Mr President, those are a few answers I can give to those who spoke, and I would like to thank Parliament once again, and particularly the Committee on Budgetary Control for our excellent collaboration. (Applause) Thank you very much, President Maystadt.
Finally, regarding the financing of infrastructure, I would like to say that the European Union is clearly at a cross-roads and that financing is not enough now, but that debt should obviously not be used to fund operation, which is sadly what is happening in some Member States.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (DE) Mr President, President Maystadt, Mr Audy, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the rapporteur most warmly and congratulate him on the good, balanced work he has carried out.
