Approval of motor vehicles and their trailers (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading from the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (Framework Directive) (09911/3/2006 - C6-0040/2007 - (Rapporteur: Malcolm Harbour).
rapporteur. - Madam President, it is a pleasure to be able to present this report on behalf of the committee tonight.
In total it is a report of almost 400 pages, which must be one of the biggest reports to come before this Parliament.
In particular, Commissioner, I would like to thank your own staff - Mr Schulte-Braucks and Mr Delneufcourt, who I think has been largely responsible for many of those 400 pages.
I would just like to highlight some of those points this evening.
It is important that we have an approval process for those categories of parts so that we have very full consumer protection in that area.
Since 1996, the directive on the type approval of motor vehicles has been the European Community's most important legal instrument for creating the internal market in the automotive sector.
CARS 21 has enabled us to define the legislative framework within which we will move when designing future technical regulations.
On the tension between the Community's rules on languages and the direct reference to international standards and regulations, I should like to say that the Commission accepts Amendment 25 because it believes that in this particular industrial sector a direct and up-to-date reference to such standards may significantly enhance its competitiveness.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I too should like firstly to thank the rapporteur, Mr Harbour, for his excellent and very professional work on this dossier.
The first is that we were able to agree in Article 31 to retain a high level of consumer protection in approval procedures for parts or equipment which pose a significant risk to the correct functioning of systems.
