I now hope that you will find the time to restore the dignity of the political body and allow it to do its job.
Mr Turco, I will consult the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on Thursday on this question.
I understand that matter is already being taken care of by the services. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, a delegation from the democratically elected parliament of Taiwan visited us here in Strasbourg yesterday at the invitation of Members of the European Parliament.
Last night our guests had to leave in haste because the visa that they had been granted by the French authorities was only valid for 24 hours.
All attempts by Members of this House to have this visa extended or to have a visa issued for a longer period failed in the face of the obstinacy of the French authorities.
We in this Parliament are rightly very proud of the fact that we may all speak, listen to and read our mother tongue.
Mr President, I would like to emphasise what Mr Sakellariou said regarding the Speaker of the Taiwanese Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Common Security and Defence Policy.
If the Speaker of the democratically elected Taiwanese Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Affairs had visited Brussels and not Strasbourg, the delegation would have been allowed to stay for longer than 24 hours and would not have been forced to break off under the dishonourable circumstances which prevailed yesterday.
The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the programme of the Danish presidency.
I note that the President-in-Office of the Council, Prime Minister Rasmussen will exceptionally participate in our major debate next November on enlargement, even though he will not be reporting on the work of the European Council.
We anticipate before the close of the presidency at the Copenhagen Summit an intensive dialogue with the group leaders from Parliament.
The European Parliament is an important and constructive force in the development of European cooperation and I am sure that this will continue to be true in the months ahead, in which we face a number of decisions of crucial importance for the future of the EU.
The Danish Presidency is therefore preparing for close cooperation with the European Parliament.
The Danish Presidency wishes to strengthen the cooperation between the institutions of the EU.
I know that the European Parliament shares this desire.
We will seek to promote contacts and cooperation between the institutions.
We intend to hold summits between Parliament, the Commission and the Presidency ahead of the European Council meetings in Brussels and Copenhagen.
In this connection a central role will be taken by our European Affairs Minister Bertel Haarder, a former Member of this Parliament.
In addition, I will participate in the great debate concerning enlargement which will take place on 19 November.
The programme contains a detailed account of our aims and plans in the individual areas.
A decision on enlargement of the EU will be made at the summit in Copenhagen in December.
Thirdly: Sustainable development - economic, social and environmental.
We will work towards ensuring that economic growth goes hand -in hand with protection of the environment and improvements in employment.
This applies not least to the decisions concerning greater openness in the work of the Council.
Overall it is our ambition to secure the greatest possible degree of openness surrounding the work of the Danish Presidency. (Applause) The enlargement of the EU is the most important task of the Danish Presidency.
I will deal with this important subject fully later on in my contribution, but first I would like to comment on the other topics in the Presidency's programme.
The Presidency will also follow up the conclusions of the European Council in Seville concerning asylum, immigration and border controls.
A number of forward-looking, concrete and balanced decisions were taken here which form a good basis for the work under the Danish Presidency.
We will prioritise the implementation of the internal market and the development of economic cooperation between EU Member States.
A strong and competitive European economy is essential for growth, prosperity, increased employment and sustainable development.
Under the Danish Presidency we will seek to make concrete progress in this area.
Discussions concerning reform of the common agricultural policy will also be initiated during the Danish Presidency.
We will give this work considerable priority and seek to advance it as far as is humanly possible; but I would like to emphasise that this is a discussion which must take place independently of the negotiations concerning enlargement of the EU.
We will not accept the imposition of new conditions for enlargement. (Applause) Finally, the Presidency will give priority to the work on a new common fisheries policy for the Member States.
The Danish Presidency will be marked by a number of notable international summits.
We will work on the basis of the frameworks laid down at the summit in Seville.
It is the intention of the Danish Presidency to secure as ambitious a result as is humanly possible.
Relations between Europe and Asia will be developed further at the ASEM summit in Copenhagen in September.
There is a need to formulate a new policy in respect of these countries.
Let me return to the most important task that the Presidency faces in these six months, namely the conclusion of negotiations concerning enlargement of the EU by up to 10 new Member States.
Our aim is to conclude the negotiations with all the applicant countries that are ready by the end of the year.
At the same time, we want to advance negotiations with those countries that will not be ready for membership until a later point in time, and we want to strengthen links with the EU's new and old neighbours.
I will apply three principles in the negotiations concerning enlargement of the EU: Firstly, we will stand by the requirement that clear criteria must be met in order for a country to become a member of the EU.
Secondly, no country shall have to wait for others.
If only some of the countries - and not all ten countries - are ready by December, we in Copenhagen must conclude the negotiations with those that are ready, and no country which is ready should have to wait for a country that is not ready. (Applause) Thirdly, we will stick to December 2002 as a decisive and binding deadline.
The next six months have been set aside for enlargement.
In 2003 we must conclude the discussions in the Convention on the future of the European Union.
In 2004 we will have the Intergovernmental Conference and the elections to the European Parliament, and in 2005 and 2006 we are to specify the frameworks for the next budget period.
Firstly, there is the question of funding.
The Danish Presidency will stick to this ambitious timetable.
Cyprus is doing well in the accession negotiations; it is one of the countries that have closed the most negotiation chapters - 28 out of 31 - and as a candidate country Cyprus has a right to become a member when the country is ready.
The European Council in Helsinki concluded that a solution to this problem would be advantageous for, but not a condition of, Cyprus's accession to the EU.
The Danish Presidency will continue the work on this basis and I would like to stress that everyone involved - on both sides - should do their utmost to find a solution as quickly as possible.
Negotiations are taking place on the basis of the provisions of the Nice Treaty.
A clear and positive message has been sent from Europe to the Irish people.
Over forty years of communist rule in Central and Eastern Europe have resulted in an unfortunate and artificial division of Europe.
The Danish Presidency will do its utmost to honour this and the other tasks with which we have been entrusted.
This dream has become a reality for us in Western Europe.
As I said yesterday in this House, most issues still outstanding have been settled and the Commission will say which countries it regards as ready for enlargement at the October European Council.
As things stand and assuming current progress is maintained, all ten countries in the first wave are likely to be considered ready for accession.
In this regard, I want to reiterate my conviction that the Commission's proposal is the only workable basis for reaching an agreement between the current fifteen Member States and the twenty-five of tomorrow.
As for Turkey, the Council encourages and fully supports its efforts - as stated in the Council conclusions - to fulfil the priorities defined in its Accession Partnership.
The regular report on Turkey's progress in adopting and implementing reforms to be published by the Commission in October will be a crucial factor in the decisions that will be taken at Copenhagen.
Thus, in December, the Copenhagen European Council will set a date in 2004 for the formal accession of the new Member States and will arrange for the signing of the Accession Treaty to take place in March 2003.
Indeed, Europe must be more present in three major areas: we need a stronger foreign policy and a more effective role on the world stage, closer cooperation between the Member States in the field of security and justice and in combating organised crime and illegal immigration, and better coordination of economic and financial policy.
All these issues are currently being discussed in the debate on the future of Europe within the European Convention.
As I said yesterday, I have already put forward similar ideas on reorganising the work of the Commissioners and I would like to stress now that the reforms we can carry out without amending the Treaties need to be synchronised across the institutions.
Therefore, when there are 25 Member States, we will have to take appropriate action.
Apart from anything else, I know that a number of you will be attending this Summit, and that is good for the Union has a guiding role to play in trade, humanitarian aid, development aid and diplomatic relations.
The last G8 Meeting in Canada adopted an Africa Action Plan supporting the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD).
If you achieve all of this in the course of these six months then you will demonstrate once again that it is not just the large countries that can move Europe forward, but precisely a country like yours, that takes up its duties with great ambitions in mind.
In your speech I also discerned a certain visionary quality, because you are taking responsibility for the fact that we need to seize this opportunity now to reunite Europe.
I fully agree with you that our aim has to be to admit ten countries: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia and, of course, Cyprus and Malta.
I might also recall - and thereby give you some encouragement, Mr President-in-Office - that this Parliament adopted Mr Böge's report on the financial impact of the enlargement of the European Union on the agricultural policy by a large majority, which means that you have the support of the vast majority of this House for your chosen approach.
We support all attempts to promote good relations between Turkey and the European Union.
I call on the Turkish Government to withdraw its objections to the armed forces of the European Union and NATO carrying out joint missions.
If, for example, the Seville Conclusions state that proposals should be negotiated in public at the beginning and end of the legislative procedure in the Council of Ministers, then you should define the beginning and end of the negotiations as flexibly as possible, so that there is only a short period in the middle when meetings are perhaps not public.
In accordance with the Seville Conclusions, before the end of 2002 we will have an interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking.
The Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats stands at your side.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know what my group thinks because you were kind enough to invite all the chairmen to Copenhagen and I believe you raised the issue at the end of your speech in the correct way, providing a historical view of the challenge we have before us.
In this respect, I must say that I believe this is a good political approach.
You are also going to need a stick to impose order within the Council.
And this relates to food safety, because what we have now is a hyper-capitalist agricultural policy that is constantly seeking to achieve higher productivity.
We want an agricultural policy which is aimed at sustainable development, but we cannot say that that will be discussed later and we are going to wait four years.
We are very concerned because your government is pursuing a policy on asylum which has been criticised by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees.
Mr President, a brief reference to global responsibility.
Finally - and I will end here, Mr President - aware that the Convention we are preparing is a challenge for next year, I would like to know what you think: are you in favour of the Community method or the cabinet-based method?
Thank you very much and good luck. (Applause) President-in-Office, you take on the presidency of the European Council at a time when the Union faces its greatest-ever challenge: the largest expansion of our Community in the history of European integration.
Not only because you have prepared so thoroughly for this task but also because you assume the presidency of the Council at a time when Liberals also occupy the presidencies of the European Commission and the European Parliament.
With governments of left and right bowing to narrow national interests and placing in jeopardy this historic reunification, history appeals to the generosity of the liberal spirit.
We appeal to Blair and Schröder on the left and to Aznar, Berlusconi and Chirac on the right to pause for a moment and ponder: what picture will Europe project to the world if you squabble like Roman soldiers under the cross over a fraction of 1% of GDP?
It is not easy to be a Liberal when greed and prejudice fill the air, but rest assured, President-in-Office, that Liberal Democrats in this House will maintain our unfailing support for enlargement under the criteria laid down in Copenhagen.
The other hurdle that you must surmount is the paucity of public preparedness.
Ireland must approve the Nice Treaty, and beyond Copenhagen, national parliaments and this House must ratify the accession treaties.
In justice and home affairs the ELDR Group welcomes your detailed programme to protect our people from terrorism.
We wish you well and we offer you our support, for it is on our generation this responsibility falls; it is to us this challenge is made and it is with us that hope resides. (Applause) Mr President, I would like to welcome my fellow-countryman and the Danish Presidency.
Whilst we are well aware that we should have got the work on the economic aspects of enlargement finished back in Amsterdam and got the great battle over agricultural policy and structural funds out of the way, it is now too late to make these matters obstacles to enlargement's taking place.
In Denmark, you can be prosecuted for calling the Government's closest cooperation partner and parliamentary lynchpin, Pia Kjærsgård of the Danish People's Party, what she is called in every other European country and what European Voice most recently called her: an undisguised racist.
Denmark is also a country in which people have a very special way of looking at aid to developing countries.
This is why there is ever greater hope in this Parliament that small countries can help Europe progress more effectively than the large ones, and Denmark's decisiveness, which comes across in your speech, is no exception.
As far as your priority for enlargement is concerned, you rightly refer to the major Copenhagen rights which served as criteria for the candidate countries.
I also wanted to ask you how you intend to bring Cyprus on board if you do not give the Turkish minority any security guarantees, how you intend to solve the Kaliningrad issue, and so on.
The Danish Presidency will naturally be led with all the professionalism that Denmark can muster; but that is not the same as saying that the Danish Government's very ambitious programme for rapid enlargement to the east will succeed, since this depends after all not just on how good the presidency is.
The EU's agricultural schemes are expensive for consumers and taxpayers in the EU and do not secure farmers a proper income.
That is why French, Danish, Polish and all other farmers have a common interest in getting agricultural policy reformed, so that it supports farmers' earnings rather than subsidising unsaleable products, surplus stocks, destruction, the ruin of agricultural production in developing countries, environmental ruin and high prices for consumers for our daily food.
If we phase out price subsidies in the EU there will be no reason to allow the new Member States to join the subsidy schemes.
Having said that, I hope that the Danish Presidency will remember that there is a small region in Europe which has been subjected to genocide day after day for several years, namely Chechnya.
It is indeed a matter of urgency that the European Union should make arrangements, under the guidance of the Danish Presidency, for a troika visit to Chechnya with a view to observing the destruction and the criminal policy that Russia has been inflicting on that country in recent years.
Denmark is also synonymous with enlargement, as Mr Rasmussen reminded us several times.
For my own part, I believe the Union should engage in some reflection and propose a new enlargement.
There remains the question of Israel, which is essentially the issue of peace, freedom and democracy in that region of the world.
Enlargement can scarcely succeed without a strong commitment from, and involvement by, these countries.
The purpose of enlargement is to create an area of peace, freedom, democracy and wealth.
The enlargement will increase our opportunities for greater efforts against international terrorism and more effective combating of international crime, including human trafficking.
In global competition the ability to produce safe food will play a huge role.
We can make a great contribution, but without support from the USA, Russia and the Arab countries our efforts will be in vain.
We all have a great political and moral responsibility, and it is of course a prerequisite for success that all parties have the necessary desire to compromise.
The ball is now largely in the EU's own court and I think that the Commission has provided a particularly reasonable scheme for funding enlargement in the initial years, and one which clearly separates enlargement from future agricultural reform.
The strident negative debate on foreigners in certain countries should be replaced by a common European policy based on humanitarianism, in which foreigners are not discriminated against socially, in which conventions are respected and in which it is not only members of a well-educated elite who have access to Europe as refugees or for the purpose of family reunification.
I have two questions which I hope will be answered.
The first question concerns openness in the Council.
My second question concerns accession.
Mr President, I very much welcome the Danish presidency and I very much welcome the fact that in its programme it states that the European Union has a special responsibility for peace and stability in a world which is ever more closely linked.
In that case, therefore, we should be in a much stronger position to shape that world, but in particular to ensure, as we are in the new century and the new millennium, that we will make it the first century in which we will no longer have conflict or war in our world and that the European Union will use its influence to bring that about.
The first half of the last century was the worst in the history of the world with two world wars.
The principles at the heart of European Union should be sent to areas of conflict anywhere in the world.
It may seem strange to work towards giving new countries access to full European cooperation when you yourself come from a country that has remained outside the sphere of influence in certain areas.
But Denmark's own foot-dragging in the EU will in no circumstances hamper enlargement.
It is our duty - but a duty that we are happy to comply with - to give these new EU citizens the same rights as we ourselves have.
An EU citizen can go out and get work anywhere.
Now, a foreigner in Denmark must be 24 to bring in his wife from her home country.
There are tensions between Germany and the Czech Republic, and also between Austria and the Czech Republic, concerning the recent and very bitter past.
The past should not stand in the way of the present.
For this reason I would like to ask you whether you would use your political influence, Prime Minister, to ease these tensions and to use your influence on the Czech government to respond to the European Parliament's report on the Czech Republic, which asks the Czech side to repeal the relevant decrees by the latest at the time of accession.
There is nothing wrong with it, elections are an important part of politics, but it would be better, Mr Poettering, if, when this House was discussing Austria, and when we were discussing Italy, you had not jumped up like Savonarola and said that we were meddling in the internal affairs of Member States, only, when your own country was being discussed, to start working the crowds as if you were addressing a campaign rally in Osnabrück.
As you know, if we sought uniform transposition of the rules of the common agricultural policy, the agricultural budget would probably be considerably increased, which nobody wants.
Secondly, with regard to illegal immigration, the previous presidency made the fight against illegal immigration one of its priorities.
Mr President-in-Office, the Spanish Presidency made the fight against terrorism its top priority.
Your country, Mr President-in-Office, has opted out.
My question concerns the recent American initiative.
That is our model for our relations with the TACIS countries and, Commissioner Nielson, it has recently also become our model for ACP relations, where we have established specific principles which may also trigger sanctions.
we can see Liberals sitting in the Council seats, a Prime Minister who is genuinely Liberal, and at his side he has Mr Haarder.
I would like to hear your comments on the political and strategic realities in this case.
We need perhaps four million each year until 2050 to keep Europe working and to be able to maintain the prosperity of Europe.
I also believe that it is important for us to meet these demands ourselves.
You are completing the work of Mr Uffe Elleman-Jensen.
Mr President, my fellow Members have said some very important things about foreign policy and that the European Union must not become 'Fortress Europe'.
I would like in my own speech to stress that we must also practise good neighbourly cooperation in our neighbouring regions.
The Danish Presidency in fact offers a new opportunity for this in the Nordic area.
The Danish Presidency's programme makes mention of strengthening the so-called Northern Dimension.
Do the Commission and Denmark also now intend, within the framework of the Northern Dimension, to look into the issue of the so-called Arctic Window in the Northern Dimension, and what in concrete terms do they intend to achieve in doing so?
The resolution says that the decision on the accession of Cyprus will be taken without a political solution being a pre-condition.
Here, the Danish Prime Minister has said that "a final decision will be taken on the basis of all relevant factors".
I particularly welcome the two British Commonwealth countries, Malta and Cyprus, joining and this will increase the use of English in this institution, which I fully support.
Mr President, the Seville Summit commits the Danish Presidency to certain obligations which need to be fulfilled within a very short space of time.
What I ask is that you work with me and with the Children's Alliance, a group of us across the floor of this House, belonging to every single group, so that we can secure unanimous support.
We are, however, facing some very important decisions, particularly in the Balkans, for example concerning the American involvement there and the transfer of responsibility to the European Union.
Mr Poettering mentions the matter of Turkey.
I agree entirely that we must urge every country and every political leader in Europe not to let the enlargement of the European Union be held to ransom by their agricultural policy ambitions. (Applause) It would be a historic mistake of major proportions if anyone were to block the enlargement of the European Union because of disputes concerning a monetary amount which is, after all, of marginal importance.
We do not need more money in order to implement enlargement of the European Union; and secondly, the Commission's proposal concerning the gradual phasing in of direct subsidies to farmers in the new Member States will mean a small, modest amount of extra expenditure - extra expenditure that corresponds to less than one thousandth of the value of total production in the current Member States.
I would like to say that the Danish Presidency is currently considering how the EU can best contribute to restarting the peace process in the Middle East.
The aim of our current deliberations is to create a basis for a later peace conference in which the Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations can be resumed.
It is the intention of the Danish Presidency that the European Union can and should play a constructive part in the attempts to get the peace process in the Middle East restarted.
I would like to emphasise that the Danish Presidency will stick to the decisions made in Helsinki, which consist of three elements.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Danish government on assuming the presidency and wish them all success during their six months in office.
I support the sentiments expressed recently by the Danish foreign minister, Per Stig Møller, when he underlined the need for the EU to deliver on its promises to the applicant countries.
However, we also have a moral obligation to honour promises already given to existing Member States.
The proposals currently being considered by agriculture Commissioner Franz Fischler, as part of the CAP mid-term review, are a betrayal of the Berlin Agenda 2000 agreement.
Agriculture is the cornerstone of the rural economy in Europe and rural development will be a meaningless platitude if farmers are penalised and impoverished by the implementation of the proposals currently leaked by the EU Commission.
Preparing for enlargement by penalising farmers is morally and politically wrong and could well result in alienating them from the enlargement process itself.
My message to you, President-in-Office, is exactly the same as my message three weeks ago here to the outgoing Spanish presidency.
History will neither forgive nor forget the governments of the European Union if, by squabbling over a few million euro, they delay this historic project.
The reform of the common agricultural policy is important but it is not linked to enlargement.
Again, that is a message you must take back to the Council.
The first is the need to influence public opinion in our countries because, although it is certainly true that the Irish referendum will be crucial and decisive, it is equally true that we must ensure that the enlargement process is explained and understood in our countries, and this is a task which is the responsibility of every Member of the European Parliament.
The other subject, which has already been mentioned in this House, is the question of the status within the European Union of the regions which have a legislative power recognised by the individual Constitutions.
The first issue concerns the added importance which will be assumed by the debate on cohesion policy and regional policy as of the coming months.
I should like to make three observations.
I agree with what has been said about the timetable.
We should be aware, however - and you are aware - that these proposals are seen as discriminatory in the countries of central Europe and as a danger signal from the European Union.
My second remark, of a more general nature, could be summed up in the phrase 'Be wary when things are too quiet'.
Mr Prodi, your reading of the Eurobarometer has been selective.
In fact, as we all know, there is a great deal of friction between the European authorities and the people of Europe.
Finally, I believe the debate has been very interesting in many respects, but it has been rather superficial on the role of the Union in the world.
My second example is the Earth Summit in Johannesburg and its implications for our entire planet.
A couple of my Danish colleagues and also a couple of Swedish colleagues have directed criticism towards the Danish Government's policy on refugees and immigration and also towards its policy on developing countries.
Mr President, it is not usual to praise one's opponents, but I would like to praise Anders Fogh Rasmussen for a good speech and particularly because, as when our Queen was here, he did not side with the Danish opponents of union.
As far as I am aware, they have all stated that they support enlargement and in technical terms it is quite easy to take declaration No 20 from the summit in Nice and place numbers of votes and seats in the European Parliament in the accession treaties.
Even though it was compelled to hold a second referendum on Maastricht, Denmark refused to go over the heads of the Danish people and adopt the single currency against their will.
This has not handicapped it in any respect; on the contrary, it has been a genuine advantage in the negotiations on the accession of ten prospective new Member States that wish to join us but are anxious not to squander the freedom they have so recently recovered.
Denmark is proof that it is possible to take part in Europe without sacrificing more to the Brussels system than is strictly necessary.
At the same time I have observed something that I do not think we have ever seen before: complete agreement between the majority of this House, the Commission and the Council Presidency on the procedure and timetable.
These are important issues and they will have to be examined in a context such as this; for this reason no country should feel too sure of itself.
For the reasons I have mentioned, I do not believe that we can expect either the Lithuanians or the Poles to welcome the creation of a corridor through their country, and because of this we have to show some willingness to compromise when applying the Schengen criteria, but of course here we also need to guarantee the credibility of our secure external border in a Europe that guarantees freedom of movement.
The European Union and the Member States have the right to shape immigration and asylum policy.
In exercising this right they are obliged to uphold humane principles.
You have responsibility as the Presidency-in-Office to live up to what was said in the European Parliament when Mr Haarder was a Member and Vice-President.
the objective of creating an area of freedom, security and justice in Europe.
According to the Seville declaration the common asylum policy is to be ready in 2003, but we will attempt to get as much as possible completed already under the Danish Presidency.
In just three weeks' time the heads of border controls will meet in Copenhagen to discuss how we can implement the Seville decision in reality.
I hope that Mr Cushnahan does not expect me to respond to a Commission memorandum on agricultural policy that has not yet been produced.
At the end of a lengthy period of negotiations which failed to produce a result satisfactory to both committees, the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 13 June to refer the proposal to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as the committee responsible in the light of its powers and responsibilities with the proviso that the enhanced Hughes Procedure be applied between the Legal Affairs Committee and the Environment Committee.
The Environment Committee has challenged this decision and requested that the matter be put to the House in accordance with Rule 154(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which it is perfectly entitled to do under the existing Rules.
It is a rather exceptional vote because not only is the competence of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy at stake, it is, first and foremost, a question of consistency with the Rules of Procedure - as you indicated a moment ago - and with for the commitments we gave in the debate.
In addition, in accordance with the competence attributed to it, the Committee on Legal Affairs has already discussed the issue and, on 21 May, held a very important hearing.
The Committee on the Environment is responsible for environmental policy; the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is responsible for civil liability law.
In fact, this directive creates an entirely new instrument to combat general environmental damage to biodiversity, water and land, and puts an administrative burden on the public authorities in the Member States to help prevent and restore such damage.
Secondly, three Vice-Presidents - whom we spent one and a half days electing two and a half years ago - decided unanimously that this report should be drawn up by the Committee on the Environment.
The following groups have first choice: the UEN, the PSE, the EDD, even the non-attached, and the PPE are higher up the list than the Liberals.
I should like to ask the Council presidency, through you, to repeat this experiment in future and to set aside more time for it in future debates.
The responsibility we had at that time in terms of food safety was very great, but this Parliament also has the responsibility to find solutions for an economic sector which furthermore carries out an essential and necessary environmental role by recycling highly polluting products.
Mr President, I wanted to say - and I should like this to be included in the Minutes - that I did not take part in any of the votes on this report, because I find it absolutely ludicrous that, just a few weeks after having adopted the Lamassoure report, which calls for a strict demarcation of powers - and I endorse most of that report - we should decide to intervene by giving advice to the governments and parliaments of the Member States on a matter outside our sphere of responsibility.
We have made quite a bit of progress here in that we have voted against the unauthorised GMOs, in other words, the kind of accidental contamination of GMOs.
The report also points out that if lower thresholds are technically possible then they should be achieved.
The public have a right to know if the milk that they are drinking comes from animals that have been fed on GMO feed, or whether the meat that they are eating has been derived from animals which have been fed on GMO feed.
It is quite clear that what the animals were being fed had a very serious and negative consequence on the consumer.
The consumer, therefore, has a right to know and a right to choose and it was disappointing that this point was not voted through in the report today.
Mr President, I voted against this proposal for a regulation.
It occurs to me that we are spending too long deciding how good or how bad what we eat is, what it is made of and whether it includes GMOs or not, while so many people in the world are hungry and have nothing to eat.
Having said that, with all respect to the report, the Pensioners' Party and I are in favour of GMOs.
That is my opinion, and I am convinced that the future will see many genetically modified organisms in food.
The principle of strict traceability must apply equally to products from non-EU countries.
I shall expound that view in my explanation of vote on the Scheele report.
It would obviously be possible to subject them to a coherent system of obligations and in particular to enable the general public to monitor the companies in question.
Not because we wish to side with those who would present genetic modification as a modern-day Medusa, but because we have no faith in choices made by capitalists, choices dictated not by the precautionary principle but by the profit motive alone, we are voting in favour of this report.
Its approval has, therefore, become of strategic importance, not only for the European Union, but also for its contribution to stopping the spread of GMOs in developing and least-developed countries.
Consumers must possess all the information that enables them to assess the advisability of purchasing the products they enjoy.
Instead of taking time to look into this properly, this Parliament decided two years ago to create scope for commercial applications.
This means that some undertakings can make a profit in the short term using something which will at a later stage mainly generate costs.
This is preferable to placing ordinary natural products in an exemption situation by prescribing that they state that they have not been modified by genetic procedures.
What we have as a result is the unnecessary fragmentation of legislation on GMOs.
I therefore support the proposals for amendments tabled by the rapporteur for traceability and consistent labelling to apply to GMOs and products in which genetically modified DNA or genetically modified proteins are detected.
Mr President, I am in favour of the marketing of genetically modified foodstuffs.
I am, however, concerned that this may happen in a disorganised manner and especially in such a way as to curtail the activities of small traders, small farmers and those working in cottage industries.
In all these documents - directives and regulations - on genetically modified foodstuffs and also feedingstuffs, as in this case, I should like to see more attention given to preventing the progress in GM foods from damaging small enterprises in Europe.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, the European Parliamentary Labour Party, I should like to say that the vote today reflects our wish to advance beyond the moratorium and establish genuine traceability.
We voted for the approvable threshold of 0.5%, above which the product must be GM labelled.
That is the only blemish in this report.
On more than one point, the draft text reflects the pressure exerted by the agrifood lobby.
As for the GMOs that are already authorised, the Commission proposes a very high threshold, below which there would be no mandatory labelling to inform consumers of the presence of those GMOs.
Similarly, we support every amendment that strengthens the directive in terms of authorisation procedure and of the public's right to information.
The ten-year period for the maintenance of monitoring data, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, instead of the five years proposed by the Commission, is, in my opinion, unreasonably long.
This was unfortunately not enough to vote in favour of this report and the Trakatellis report.
The report stresses the need to involve the staff of establishments and to enlist their practical and occupational experience and training in the effort to improve safety.
The desire for transparency and public information and for the involvement of local populations in all safety plans is another very strong point of the report.
This kowtowing to industry leaders, even in an instrument that is essentially designed to improve the management of risks associated with major accidents, foreshadows other major accidents that will not be due to the hazardous nature of substances but to companies' efforts to maximise their profits. . (NL) After the major fireworks disaster which destroyed an entire district in the Dutch town of Enschede on 13 May 2000, it transpired that safety existed only on paper.
Two days later, I asked the European Commission for maximum openness and the application of the Seveso II Directive.
A few weeks later, along with three other Dutch MEPs, I had an interview with Commissioner Wallström, during which she committed herself to the proposal to step up the Seveso Directive, on which we are voting today.
Mr President, this report refers to a decision of Parliament on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in scientific research and how to disseminate it.
We have honoured our commitments by adopting the report on the sixth FRP as such in May 2002, the reports on the specific programmes in June and, lastly, the rules of participation in July, to pave the way for the creation of a legal and financial framework for the achievement of the research aims formulated for the period until 2006.
I should like, nevertheless, to emphasise a point that concerns the outermost regions and in relation to which I tabled a proposal for an amendment, because I think it is extremely important: I am talking about the need for programmes for the outermost regions to contain more criteria for added value.
I would like to take the opportunity of explaining my vote for this decision to stress that I am in favour of nuclear energy both personally and as the representative of the Pensioners' Party here in Strasbourg.
Mr President, I voted for the Kauppi report, which recalls what 2001 meant for the euro, the European single currency and in particular the role of the European Central Bank.
I emphasise that part - a little lacking, I must say - of this report that deals with the macroeconomy, that is, the Member States' budgets and their influence on the European Central Bank's initiatives.
According to Mrs Kauppi, the bank has done a sterling job once again, but opinions may differ on this.
The report points out that abortion rates are high in countries with poor sex education and where contraception is not emphasised.
I am sure we all agree that this is a concern.
The report states that in order to safeguard women's reproductive health and rights, abortion should be made safe, legal and accessible to all.
Imagine, Mr President, if there were 200 Pensioners' Party representatives here: it would certainly be discussed much more!
I have seen for myself the alarming and terrifying rise of HIV/Aids not just in the developing countries but also in the applicant countries.
I believe that reproductive health services are a right and should be available for all.
This report will cause us considerable problems in relation to the forthcoming constitutional amendment.
We have a huge and unacceptable level of abortion in Ireland.
While I fully accept that the European Union has no competence in this matter, the provision of reproductive health - as rightly stated by Commissioner Byrne - is an intrinsic part of a good public health service.
Mr President, I voted against this report because I do not believe it falls within our competence.
To all those who will criticise Parliament today I should like to say: do not criticise Parliament, criticise that narrow majority that railroaded this report through, and make sure that the next Parliament has a different majority!
Mr President, I voted against this report because the European Union has no competence to legislate on abortion.
The European Parliament should therefore not be debating reports that convey the impression that it does, and to do so raises unnecessary fears on the part of many European citizens.
The problem is complicated further by the fact that Ireland will soon be holding a second referendum on the Treaty of Nice.
However, the EU does not have, and nor should it have, competence in this area.
We also voted in favour of Amendment No 7 which clearly explains our position.
Wanting the Commission to promote the harmonisation of the various national policies on these matters is tantamount to a desire to rationalise, or indeed standardise, social life in the Member States in utter disregard of their diverse identities.
The report makes substantial demands of their governments, demands that have not been included in the decision-making programme in any shape or form.
There are indeed wide disparities between the various European countries but also between rich and poor within each country.
The report therefore calls on all Member States to establish a system for the distribution of free or very low-priced contraceptives, to legalise abortion, to develop proper information and education policies for young people and to support women who are victims of sexual abuse.
The obstinacy with which this united left has pursued its goal here, regardless of the adverse consequences it might have, for example in connection with the second referendum on the ratification of the Nice Treaty in Ireland or with the referenda in the accession countries, and without considering the fact that the EU has absolutely no competence in this field, thanks to the principle of subsidiarity, points, in my mind, to a regrettable confusion about its sense of mission.
This being the case, and because reason and realism were unfortunately not enough to teach these abortion fanatics otherwise, I did not vote in favour of this report.
Instead of this culture of death, let us opt for life from its inception to its natural end and for acceptance of the children who are our future. . (NL) In a world where men have arrogated to themselves a domineering role, women are condemned to a life of providing for the sexual pleasures of men, of bearing and raising children, and of doing household work.
In a world where all people have equal rights, opportunities and freedom of choice, women decide for themselves how they organise their lives, with whom they want possible sexual contact and if they want children.
As the Alleanza Nazionale, we reject this mechanistic idea of the birth of a human life and we refute the cultural idea which sets a woman's freedom against the unborn child's right to life.
The major issues raised by today's society are not covered either, such as personal relations in the broad sense, or matters of sex education; a woman's dignity and her involvement in one of the most meaningful events in life, maternity, is treated only from the viewpoint of reproduction or the control of a sexual right. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure Today in Parliament we have seen the truest expression of the EP's feeling towards the principle of subsidiarity.
I have, therefore, voted against the report, not only because of its substance, which has been largely resolved in my country through a referendum, but also because of the intrusive method that this vote unfortunately used.
The report and the vote on it reduce to the absurd the declarations we have heard on the principle of subsidiarity or on respect for Member States' own competences.
However, if we really want to discuss who influences whom in the long term, I think it will be the humanist Portuguese legislation, which stands in opposition to the liberalisation of abortion and which protects the right to life that will be adopted in other countries in the course of the century.
The report clearly states its position on the issue of abortion in item 12: 'The European Parliament recommends that, in order to safeguard women's reproductive health and rights, abortion should be made legal, safe and accessible to all.?
Article 42.1 of the Irish Constitution states: "The State acknowledges that the primary and natural educator of the child is the Family and guarantees to respect the inalienable right and duty of parents to provide, according to their means, for the religious and moral, intellectual, physical, and social education of their children" (42.1). (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The right of women to make their own decisions over their bodies is a fundamental right which must not be undermined.
The purpose of the meeting was to strengthen international support for reinforced efforts to combat hunger and poverty with a view to achieving the aim of halving the number of the world's starving by the year 2015.
This aim was confirmed in connection with the UN's Millennium Summit in September 2000 and now forms a basic element of the international development aims to which the global community has committed itself.
Since the World Food Summit in 1996, the number of starving people in the world has fallen, but unfortunately by nowhere near the extent necessary.
The average fall in the number of the starving today is just six million, despite the fact that there is a need for renewed and strengthened efforts if we are to achieve the annual average fall of 22 million in the number of starving people that is required for us to achieve our objective.
Under this heading, the international community commits itself to strengthening and coordinating its efforts to combat hunger.
At the same time, the EU sought to ensure that the results of the most important international conferences and summits of recent times - including, especially, the UN Millennium Summit in 2000 and the International Conference on Financing for Development held in Monterrey in March 2002 - were taken further and that links were made with the forthcoming World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, where the issue of combating hunger and poverty will be dealt with as an integral part of the overall international development policy agenda.
Measures to encourage production are essential, but are not alone the solution to the problems.
The level of global food production today is already sufficient to feed everyone.
Consequently, broadly-based poverty-oriented economic growth and an improved economic distribution policy that benefits the poorest population groups are crucial for a sustainable solution to the world's problems involving hunger.
Finally, the developing countries' access to research and technology is an essential element in the fight against hunger and poverty.
The poor countries' access to the markets in the West is naturally an essential element in efforts to promote those countries' development.
The Summit declaration largely reflects the EU's priorities and attitude, which I have just outlined.
The declaration launches a new initiative on the right to food.
Thus agreement was reached that an intergovernmental working party was to be set up to devise voluntary guidelines on the right to food, with the assistance of the FAO and involving all other relevant UN bodies with competence in the area of human rights.
The developing countries hope that such guidelines will give added weight both to the requirement to secure the poor countries' access to food and, thus, to the combating of hunger.
The EU is backing the initiative and will be actively involved in the work on making the right to food a practical tool.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank the outgoing presidency of the Council for its efforts.
Overall, the EU thus played a not insignificant role with regard to securing progress in the negotiations and a sensible result.
The EU and the Member States provide over 50% of total global development aid, a large part of which is spent on the development of rural areas and on the agricultural sector in the poorest countries.
A number of Member States, including my own country, Denmark, have already far exceeded the international objective of spending 0.7% of GDP on development aid.
Those Member States that have yet to achieve this target have undertaken, as a minimum, to increase their development aid to the current EU average of 0.33% of GDP so that an overall EU average of 0.39% can be achieved by 2006.
The outcome of the summit was the adoption of a declaration containing many good elements that I hope will support and contribute to the promotion of coordinated action in order to achieve the 1996 summit target.
In this spirit, the summit decided to set up an intergovernmental working group with the participation of all stakeholders in order to elaborate, within a period of two years, a set of voluntary guidelines on the right to adequate food.
The objective of the guidelines is to support the efforts of the member states of FAO to achieve the progressive realisation of the right to adequate food in the context of national food security.
The Commission welcomes this positive achievement and is happy to see that the declaration reflects the views of the EU on many issues.
It is essential that the issues I will mention here be addressed simultaneously and in the framework of national poverty reduction strategies.
In particular, the summit failed to clearly denounce and clarify the most crucial overriding causes of hunger, which are bad governance and man-made disasters.
Some estimates say that about 80% of the people suffering from hunger are victims of conflicts - man-made problems.
The FAO's public statements and appeals during the preparation process and the summit itself have been placing too much emphasis on additional ODA resources and on the role of agriculture and rural development.
It would then be the role of the donor community to support the implementation of national policies and strategies in a coordinated manner.
The European Parliament contributed to the international debate through the adoption on 16 May 2002 of the resolution on the summit.
In particular, the Commission welcomes Parliament's reminder that food aid must be reserved for emergencies and must be granted solely in the form of donations, with supplies being purchased whenever possible locally or within the region.
Nevertheless, the Commission does not endorse all the elements contained in that resolution, and in particular not the call made on the Commission itself and on EU Member States to contribute to the FAO Trust Fund established last year.
The EC policy is to directly support national and regional development processes and programmes in the context of its regional partnership agreements.
I would add here that Parliament's resolution of 16 May 2002 was adopted, pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure, following the debate on the statement made by the Commission without any prior consultation with the Commission.
In closing I would like to recall that this World Food Summit is a step in a long process, which started in Doha and Monterrey and which will end in less than two months in Johannesburg.
But she has not yet lived to see the leaders of our world unite, to use that knowledge to bring peace and health and the means to live for the 800 million of our fellow human beings who are hungry.
She was 69 when the first World Food Conference pledged everyone must be free from hunger - not everyone except 400 million - everyone.
In the second half of my mother's life, 400 million people have died of hunger - three times the numbers killed in wars in her lifetime.
Surely we could have expected that the Rome Summit would have agreed an action plan to stop this slaughter.
You were right, but you were excessively polite.
The Italian press made it clear that the delegates were more interested in the dolce vita than in fighting world hunger.
Mr President, it was agreed in 1996 that the number of people suffering from malnutrition would be halved to 400 million by the year 2015.
It is very unfortunate that so few of our European leaders attended the 'World Food Summit: five years later' in Rome three weeks ago.
Without adequate reforms to the common agricultural policy now, the objectives of the World Food Summit will never be reached, and certainly not by 2015.
We should call an end to the dumping of European products in developing countries.
We should in Europe abandon the export subsidies for our own farmers and we must lower the trade barriers for developing countries to a minimum.
As Commissioner Nielsen rightly said, that is where, in addition to national policy in the developing countries themselves, a large proportion of the solution to world hunger lies.
The liberalisation of the world market is not obstructed by Europe alone, but also by America and other large agricultural states.
This is the current state of affairs, despite the fact that the right to healthy and sufficient food is a fundamental right of all human beings.
This is also happening, however, because at the same time there are too many negative factors preventing the current tragic situation from being turned around, such as the utmost priority that is given to trade issues and ultraliberal policies, subsidies given by rich countries to their goods exports in the primary sector, which have clearly influenced the recent decisions taken by the US in this field, or even the preposterous way in which biotechnologies are now being promoted.
Once again we reaffirm the need for the European Union to play a major role in defending the right of the poorest countries to protect their fish stocks and to develop their rural economies in the aim of guaranteeing their food sovereignty in the context of a much-desired sustainable development.
Unfortunately, the World Food Summit organised by the Food and Agriculture Organization has demonstrated that the fears I expressed to this very House a month and a half ago were entirely warranted.
The absence of thirteen European Heads of State from the Summit and the Italian Prime Minister's request that the end of the meeting be brought forward because of a football match graphically illustrate how little interest famine in the world generates in our countries.
Mr Berlusconi even had the effrontery to cast doubt on the duty of the industrialised countries to assist the developing countries in their desperate plight, invoking the precept that 'God helps those who help themselves'.
We are disappointed by the resolution that the European Parliament has proposed, because it fails to condemn the gulf between the words of our governments and their deeds.
The fact that the World Food Summit has been the subject of discussion and resolutions in this House twice in recent months sends out an important signal as to the priority we place on the issue of world hunger.
There are currently an estimated 815 million people suffering from hunger.
Mr President, if you now permit, I would like to use the occasion of my inaugural speech in this House to say a few words in my own native language, the Irish language.
Chun críochníu, ba mhaith liom a rá go cruinn agus go sóiléir, mar teachta ó Éirinn, go mbeidh aidhm pholaitíuil amháin agam idir é seo agus an Fhomhair, sé sin tábhacht Chonraidh Nice a chur in iúil do mhuintir Connacht / Ulaidh chun go nglacfar leis san dara reifreann a bheidh againn in Éirinn roimh deireadh na bliana. (I am proud to have be granted the opportunity to serve the people of Connaught-Ulster, Ireland.
I would like to pay tribute to the record of my predecessor, Pat the Cope Gallagher, who is now serving in the Irish Government.
I undertake to assiduously serve the region I represent, in particular with regard to policies which touch on the daily lives of people in rural communities.
Having been a member of the Committee of the Regions for eight years, I am firmly convinced of the important role of regions and the need to empower them to take the decisions on so many aspects which affect their communities.
As far as agriculture is concerned, the CAP is a policy which must be defended against the onslaught from countries or groups who conveniently forget the benefits they have got from the single market, and the need for socio-economic cohesion.
However, in reality the liberalisation applies only to the developing countries, where the requirement of liberalisation completely destroys their ability to build up independent sustainable production.
As a minimum, to start with we could abolish the EU's protectionist agricultural subsidy schemes, suspend our fisheries agreements with third countries - which are designed to deprive the very poorest in the world of their living, establish a development policy that is genuinely aimed at combating poverty and not governed by the fight against immigration and terrorism as well as concerns about our own jobs and, last but not least, support the poor countries' right to their own production and access to water, soil and biological diversity.
Mr President, at the recent World Food Summit held in Rome, 182 nations renewed their commitment to putting an end to the tragedy of hunger in the world, in which there are still 800 million people who are malnourished.
Sadly, five years on from the first summit in 1996, we have to acknowledge that we have clearly failed in our aim of halving this figure by 2015.
The need to combat this tragedy is also reinforced by the thought that hunger is both a cause and an effect of poverty.
Good governance in these developing countries is, however, an essential prerequisite if the cooperation which is vital for the achievement of the objectives we have set is to be strengthened.
The first was Monterrey, on development funding, with mediocre results, and the second was Rome, on food, which yielded no real results.
I hope that we will achieve some improvements during this Danish Presidency, given the sensitivity it has.
We cannot hold summit after summit without results.
We must therefore make very practical and realistic proposals which we want to communicate to the Commission and the Council: a code of conduct to guarantee food, based on the belief that food is a fundamental human right, and an emergency plan to deal with the famines and food shortages currently affecting 14 million people in Africa.
I agree with the rest of the measures highlighted in the resolution, in particular the considerations of the Community budget and the EDF, greater coordination between bilateral and multilateral donors, the importance of microcredits and of the creation of an alliance against hunger and poverty.
The fact that the Union and its Member States are the main donors of aid allows the European Union's representatives to take the lead in making this summit a success, a success which is not merely something which this Parliament wants to see, but which is a commitment of the European Heads of State and Government in accordance with the conclusions of the Seville European Council.
Direct competition between agricultural products from countries with very unequal productive systems, as well as the practices of exporting countries in the developed world, coupled with the risk of dependence facing the countries of the South if they specialise in the export of one or two primary products - these are the long-term threats to the future food security of the people who inhabit three quarters of our planet.
The Director-General of the FAO has estimated that an additional amount of 24 billion dollars would be needed to achieve the aforementioned aims.
The FAO called on the rich countries before the World Food Summit to set aside an additional USD 24 billion in order to halve the number of malnourished people by 2015.
The new G8 plan merits critical consideration, given the failures of previous plans to help Africa.
Mr President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again, a World Food Summit has just ended and a World Summit on Sustainable Development is about to begin.
Summits should do more than simply pay lip service to the global fight against poverty and hunger.
The national strategies must focus on rural development and food security.
All this casts a dangerous and evil shadow over the meeting of 26 August, the Johannesburg Summit.
I believe we should remind ourselves that we do not yet have much new evidence on our side to be able to face up to and resolve this emergency.
It is true that there are always new famines appearing round the world, and not only where there is the excuse of war to trigger them off.
This scenario was debated thoroughly at the FAO meeting, particularly on the last morning, Thursday 13 June, when it was decided to give special attention to the problem of the world's mountainous regions, where hunger and poverty are always more acute and show themselves in the most dreadful ways.
Now, in the UN International Year of Mountains, this message is being passed from the FAO Assembly directly to this Parliament.
With regard to the Johannesburg summit, the Danish Presidency will place great importance on achieving a global deal with rights and obligations, with access to our markets, but also with certain obligations on those who are given this access.
I would like to emphasise that for all that, we have done something: we provide over 50% of total development aid in the world.
On behalf of the Council and the Presidency I am happy to give an undertaking that we will make substantial efforts in Johannesburg.
Another important aspect which I have been focusing on more and more is the direct relationship between conflicts and hunger.
Several speakers have commented on the absence of leaders of our Member States, but President Prodi and I were there for the Commission and we did our part.
We are now agreeing a new approach with the Government of Ethiopia and even with the United States.
Rome was an occasion to re-establish the importance of the food issue in general.
I agree with Mr Haarder on the difficulties in the run-up to Johannesburg.
The price tag is high.
It should also be recalled that another recently adopted joint FAO/NEPAD comprehensive agricultural programme for Africa calls for the investment of an additional USD 240 billion between now and 2015.
What we need is a combined effort made up of population policy, broad-based sustainable development, fighting poverty, and stopping the wars and conflicts that are still the main cause of the starvation of millions of people.
Sixty-nine countries have ratified the statute of the court, and we can see that it now already has significant support in the international community.
The International Criminal Court can help make the world safer, more just and more peaceful.
By its mere existence, it could deter people from committing the serious crimes - war crimes, genocide and other crimes against humanity - which we have unfortunately also witnessed in our own lifetimes and until quite recently.
On the basis of this common position, the European Union has employed political dialogue and initiatives in an attempt to obtain the broadest possible endorsement of the court from countries all around the world.
Recently, or more specifically on 17 June, the General Affairs Council adopted conclusions expressing our concern regarding the present American bill which goes under the title of the American Service Members Protection Act, or ASPA as it is called.
As we said in our conclusions from the meeting of the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg, we believe that the ASPA could seriously undermine the work of the International Criminal Court.
If the ASPA is adopted, it will be a very unfortunate development for the international community.
Our top representatives in Washington have concerned themselves with the problem over a long period.
It is a grave matter, a substantial hiccup and a serious problem in relations between Europe and the United States.
I should like, however, to say that, even though it is a major problem and a difficult situation, we shall not, in my view, achieve anything by describing the American bill as a threat to transatlantic relations.
Turkey, as an associated country, has still not signed the statute or otherwise endorsed our common position or any of the EU's declarations in support of the court.
Nonetheless, the fact that all these countries are still not participants in the court has neither damaged, nor caused a cooling-off in, bilateral relations.
Through persistent lobbying in support of the statute, we have already managed to convince a number of countries, and we hope that, by this means, we can convince still more.
The American administration has assured us that an American intervention in the territory of an EU country would be - and I quote - 'inconceivable'.
Many American soldiers gave their lives for freedom and democracy in Europe.
I cannot imagine their grandchildren taking it into their heads to invade one of our Member States.
The ASPA proposal is now on the table, however, and section 3008 concerning the use of force will constitute a dangerous precedent in international law.
The International Criminal Court will soon be able to prove its worth as an independent and effective international court.
The creation of an International Criminal Court is central to this fight.
By investigating and bringing to justice such individuals, the Court provides an essential means of promoting respect for international humanitarian law and human rights.
Now that the Rome Statute has entered into force, the ICC is finally a reality.
In this context, the withdrawal by the United States of its signature from the Rome Statute came as a blow to the international community as it strives to prevent a repeat of the atrocities which have plagued recent conflicts.
The fact that the world's greatest military power is not with us is a blow - there is no denying this.
This is not the first time in recent history that Europe has taken the lead and set the international agenda.
As an independent nation, the United States has a sovereign right not to participate in the ICC if that is its wish.
In telling the world on 6 May that it did not intend to ratify the Rome Statute, the United States also gave assurances that it would not actively seek to undermine the work of the International Criminal Court, nor dissuade others from ratifying the Rome Statute.
Therefore the decision by the US Senate on 6 June to adopt its own version of the American Servicemembers' Protection Act (ASPA), previously adopted by the US House of Representatives, came as a great surprise and disappointment to many of America's allies and partners.
The ASPA's provisions, as currently drafted, are a grave cause for concern to supporters of the ICC for several reasons.
By seeking to remove US personnel operating under UN mandate from the jurisdiction of the ICC, the ASPA might restrict US participation in peace-keeping operations.
We are already seeing the dramatic effect that this could have on the work of the UN to maintain peace and stability in hot spots across the globe.
The US move to oppose the renewal of the UN's mission to Bosnia-Herzegovina threatens to undo years of work by the international community to rebuild that fractured community.
The Commission's first analysis identifies several potentially negative effects on the political environment and Rule of Law in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
But on one thing we stand firm.
By prohibiting cooperation between its own judicial and law enforcement authorities and the ICC, the ASPA could set back the cause of the international fight against terror.
The EU reaction was discussed at the General Affairs Council of 17 June, where we adopted conclusions expressing our concerns at the ASPA's provisions.
On 19 June the Spanish ambassador to the United States, together with the Commission's head of delegation in Washington, presented an agreed statement on behalf of the EU Member States to the US Department of State.
I trust that the Council and the Commission can rely on the full support of the European Parliament in carrying through this strategy.
When, on 11 September, the United States became the victim of terrorist attacks, the EU countries immediately declared their solidarity with the Americans.
We assumed that only rogue states that are not prepared to try their own citizens for crimes against humanity, genocide and other large-scale offences, would be frightened of this Court.
Such an attitude also threatens the alliance - and I fully endorse what Mr Haarder said on this subject - because the moral content of the alliance is in this way denied.
The US President intends to cancel cooperation in joint action in Bosnia, East Timor, Kosovo, and suchlike.
There is even talk of a veto of the UN mandate for actions of this kind.
Moreover, I am happy to follow the line taken by Mr Haarder and Commissioner Byrne in respect of future policy.
The good news is that 76 States have ratified the Statute, but the bad news is this intolerable and intolerant attitude of the United States to the international system of justice which is aimed at putting an end to impunity.
President Bush has waged a campaign of harassment against the Court and against the countries which have signed or ratified its statute, which is completely unacceptable.
Only arrogance, ignorance and pride - the three things together - can explain a reaction like the one which has led the two Houses to approve the law we are talking about.
We must demand that the members of the United Nations Security Council defend the integrity of the new Court and we must prevent the United States from using its capacity for manoeuvre in the Security Council to undermine a text which they never liked, incorporating blanket protection for United States troops and civilian staff.
I am sure that when it comes into operation some people will be reassured.
The prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials, Benjamin B.
Ferencz, said that there can be no peace without justice, no justice without law, and no meaningful law without courts to decide what is fair and legitimate in any particular circumstance.
Millions of citizens the world over believe that this International Criminal Court responds to that aspiration.
Mr President, tomorrow is 4 July, Independence Day.
In two world wars the Americans came to liberate us from darkness and violence, and when the Balkans erupted the Americans stepped in when Europe failed.
The Americans are there when you need them, ready to fight and die for a world of freedom and democracy.
That is why we in Europe find it utterly incomprehensible that Americans are now cheering on their legislators as they are killing off an essential tool that was missing in our quest to make the world a safer and more just place - the International Criminal Court.
The Court has a mandate to prosecute only the most horrible crimes - genocide, mass murder and mass rape.
If that were not a large enough blow to international justice, Congress then accepted the American Servicemembers' Protection Act, which not only threatens to withhold military and financial support to any country that cooperates with the Court, but also allows the US to invade a long-time friend and ally - my country to be precise.
Europe has a chance to show the world that it is indeed a union of values; that we believe in a world in which we are all equal before the law, a world in which perpetrators of crimes will be brought to justice, no matter who they are and where they are hiding: a world ruled by law, not by the sword of the mightiest.
If a majority of the House sends that signal to the world tomorrow by supporting our compromise resolution then we are also celebrating Independence Day, the day that Europe stood up for its values.
Mr President, in my view, it is quite apparent that there is a large majority in this House in favour of a very critical position towards US policy on this issue.
Mr President-in-Office, I think you have trivialised the problems in some respects, especially by painting an overly positive picture of transatlantic relations and Europe's ability to assert its position vis-à-vis the USA.
Mrs van der Laan has just said that American troops fought for freedom in Europe in the First and Second World Wars.
Mr President, a few weeks ago, people still joked that the United States planned to release American citizens or soldiers - by force, if necessary - from the cells of the International Criminal Court in The Hague.
If the Americans can do as they please, how can we in heaven's name prevent the Russians and the Chinese, that do not happen to support the International Criminal Court either, from doing as they please and riding roughshod over agreements reached at international level?
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Haarder, allow me to submit to you the most pressing questions.
In other words, am I to conclude, if the answer is positive, that the Council too endorses the compromise proposals which are now, for example, being tabled by Britain and which, in my view, undermine the position of the Criminal Court?
The US Government remains intransigent; in these circumstances, to disarm our Member States means disarming Europe.
They want to extend NATO as far eastward as possible without changing its command structures.
Only the imperialist mind thinks in this way.
In actual fact, Europeans would have to be very weak or even - dare I say it - cowardly to overlook this evidence.
By extolling a ludicrous system that seeks to subject all human activities across the globe to the law of profitability alone, in other words the law of the jungle, where might is right, this master of the world has been responsible for much of the poverty on our planet.
To pursue such a policy is the courageous, the honourable course, which we owe not only to the nations of Europe but to Europe itself and, ultimately, to that venerable ideal of a free world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a staunch pro-European, a staunch pro-American and above all a staunch and stubborn advocate for over ten years of the need to set up the International Criminal Court, I never thought that this tool could come into operation without encountering problems, precisely because it is so important.
I hope we shall not forget the hostility and deliberately obstructive behaviour of other great powers beset with internal problems and even crime - I am deliberately referring to our Chinese friends and others - who are also putting obstacles in the way of the International Criminal Court without, however, having the courage to face an open debate in a dignified manner.
It is therefore important to debate and discuss the matter with our allies in an atmosphere of mutual respect, without trying to claim any sort of legal high ground, but resolutely putting across our point of view.
By 11 April, 66 countries had ratified it and, in little more than two months, the number has now risen to 76.
Secondly, we must realise that everything depends on us.
Indeed, I am afraid that the real aim of our US friends is not so much to scupper the International Criminal Court as to get out of the peace-keeping operations and thus in some way attack the United Nations system.
I know our ambassadors in New York are negotiating tirelessly and resolutely but not inflexibly.
Mr President, I have no doubt that most speakers today will criticise the United States, although not of course India, China, Russia and Sri Lanka.
The expanded definition of war crimes included in the statute and the much looser definition of command responsibility, looser than at Nuremberg, mean that it is very possible that Donald Rumsfeld or his successor, on a visit to Paris, might find himself under arrest for crimes committed by his subordinates, which he did not participate in, did not give the order for, or even have foreknowledge of, and for which there would be no question of his being tried in an American court.
Some might find that contrary to natural justice but there is no doubt that liberal governments and exponents of international civil society and universal jurisdiction such as Amnesty have fully supported the coming into being of the ICC, whilst ensuring a minimum of public debate over its flaws and its ability to cause political mischief for the Americans.
There are other problems.
It is at least arguable that terrorists will be excluded from some of its provisions and there is a danger that justice will take precedence over amnesties that deliver long sought-after peace and reconciliation in countries such as Angola, South Africa, Sri Lanka or Colombia, to name but a few.
Such a herring invasion seems to me to be so much more beneficial for the goodwill of the international coalition against terrorism than the threat to invade Europe, if necessary, to release American military accused of crimes against humanity and brought to the International Criminal Court in The Hague, which opened its doors this Monday, and is backed by 133 countries.
In this, Europe must speak with one voice, and emphasise a broad concept of security and key emphases, such as prevention and civilian elements.
This is why we need an international coalition, and this is where the International Criminal Court in The Hague comes in.
Nearly four years after 120 countries rubberstamped the Rome Statute and the establishment of the Court, it opened its doors in The Hague yesterday, on 1 July 2002.
The European Union is fortunately a staunch supporter of the Criminal Court, but the United States is its most radical opponent.
The Americans are now running a campaign against the Court in order to prevent its own citizens or military from ever being able to be taken before the Court, and they do not stop short of threats, for example by showing their willingness, if necessary, to sacrifice the entire UN police force in Bosnia for this.
At one time, back in 1945, the Americans were our liberators, and now they are threatening to invade Scheveningen.
This week, it transpired that the UN mission in Bosnia is at stake.
My group deeply regrets this dramatic step which jeopardises the UN peacekeeping operations in general.
I call on both the Council of Ministers under the Danish Presidency and the Commission to make every effort in order to keep relations with the US as smooth as possible in the interest of us both and the rest of the world.
As early as the beginning of June, the American Senate decided in favour of the possibility of a military invasion in the Netherlands in order to release American prisoners in The Hague.
The Commissioner has called for a dialogue with our US colleagues.
I should like to address the President of this Parliament.
The plan has not yet been finalised because, as you know, the United States will be holding mid-term elections on 4 November, which naturally makes everything a little problematic.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the United States' decision to distance itself from the International Criminal Court and its announcement last Sunday in the Security Council that it will henceforth only participate in UN missions if its military personnel are granted immunity reinforces the impression that, in some areas, the United States has adopted a more critical stance towards the institutionalisation of international politics than has the European Union.
There is a reason for it, and I have a document in front of me, dated August 2000, entitled "The American Servicemembers' Protection Act of 2000: Implications for US cooperation with the ICC".
I would urge you, Mr President-in-Office and Commissioner Byrne, to take this point very seriously.
Mr President, a dream came true when the International Criminal Court commenced its work at the beginning of this week.
According to the Coalition for the International Criminal Court, this new proposal threatens vital elements of the Rome Statute.
Mr President, for four years we in the organisation Parliamentarians for Global Action (PGA), with 1 400 members from parliaments around the world, have been working for the ratification of the Rome Statute of the ICC.
Our task now is to maintain the firm support that exists for the International Criminal Court and to ensure that it is able to function and that the UN peacekeeping operations can continue to be carried out effectively, that is to say with American participation.
I know that there are debates under way and considerations being examined at this time in relation to this issue.
The task now before us is to fully support the work of the ICC, which opened its doors for work only two days ago, in the hope that it will do its work in the manner that those who are behind it and have ratified this court believe it can do.
The directive on the use of immovable property on a timeshare basis was approved in 1994 by means of the co-decision procedure and I was Parliament's rapporteur on this directive.
The directive took three years, in principle, to enter into force, but in many countries it was postponed for one year.
The current Directive is a minimal directive.
In the discussions on this issue in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market over the last two years, it has become clear that for many Community citizens the current system is doing harm and that we should therefore increase the arsenal of instruments at our disposal.
From the point of view of Community law, perhaps we will be faced with difficulties.
And the difficulty lies in the current concern in all the Community institutions with regard to simplifying the regulatory procedure.
We have the Council's Mandelkern report, we have the proposals of the Commission on European governance and on the improvement of Community regulation and finally we have the agreements of the Seville European Council, which insist on the need to make progress in this area with the participation of the European Parliament.
Furthermore, the present Directive is peculiar in that it involves the field of private law, contract law, property law, which are traditionally considered to fall within the competence of the Member States.
On the one hand, I believe it is a clearly Community field, in that it involves property sold in one country to Community citizens and with responsibilities which may arise at a later date, and, on the other hand, it is - as I said earlier - a question of private law which would not normally be considered a Community matter.
Furthermore, the question is raised of the possible use or limitations of the legislative procedure.
It has been suggested for example that other types of measure may be useful in this field, such as measures for cooperation between Member States to combat the forms of money laundering that appear in certain types of timeshare companies or simply certain types of fraud.
There is an exhaustive study by the Commission, but it dates from 1999.
Specifically, on reviewing the report approved in committee, we detected an error in paragraph 20, which referred to certain infringement procedures which have already been concluded and therefore that paragraph 20 no longer makes sense and should be removed.
And there are also some unnecessary repetitions in paragraphs 6 and 7.
I would propose that the House vote against those three paragraphs, 6, 7 and 20.
I will end my speech here, Mr President, and I hope the House can adopt the draft report tomorrow.
I am very happy to say that many of the problems raised at the hearing, both in the oral presentations and the written dossier of evidence I submitted at the time, have been addressed.
A particular concern has been the increase in holiday club, or points club operations, which, by the very nature of their membership rules, take advantage of current legislation, which does not cover contracts of under three years.
Furthermore, I am pleased to see that we have proposed that the handing over of credit card details be subject to the same cooling-off period as a deposit by any other means.
These measures represent essential steps towards genuine consumer protection for European holidaymakers purchasing this type of holiday.
However, the current report is not a complete solution to all problems.
I hope that Members will be able to support my amendment to extend the cooling-off period to 28 calendar days from its current 10.
The new legislative proposal to come out of the report should: first, provide an integrated response to the problems which consumers have faced in the past, secondly, abolish the practice of circumventing the guarantees set out in Community legislation and, thirdly, protect all the parties involved.
I commend paragraph 15 of the report as a good starting point for bringing these contracts within the definition of consumer contracts.
The directive adheres to the principle of minimal harmonisation, establishing a low level of consumer protection measures that the Members States could then extend if they so wish.
As a consequence, consumers now face a hotchpotch of laws, which afford greater protection in some States than in others.
Since the directive was amended, the number of complaints received from European consumers has increased rather than decreased, as acknowledged by the Commission in its implementation report.
There are, as a matter of fact, increasingly sophisticated methods of offering timeshare products, such as contracts of less than three years, normally of 35 months, thereby falling short of the minimum duration covered by the directive and evading Community discipline.
Similarly, the directive covers only property that is used at least seven days per year, which has led to an increase in timeshare contracts for periods of less than seven days.
Consumers require an effective measure of protection for their transactions, in particular those that take place in more than one Member State.
The industry needs guarantees that fair practices will be encouraged and supported, through a reworded directive that eliminates the scandalous practices that we have been seeing.
It is, therefore, essential that we aim to provide a high level of protection for consumers in this field.
The present EU directive has made a significant contribution to consumers' rights, establishing minimum harmonisation.
Consumers can be vulnerable to several problems when they buy rights to use immovable properties on a timeshare basis.
Its conclusions, together with the Council's conclusions and the reactions to the 1999 Commission report on the implementation of the directive provide a solid basis for further action.
I believe that the more general problems could be tackled within the context of a framework directive on fair trading.
Further harmonisation of laws is necessary to achieve a uniform, high level of consumer protection throughout the EU.
This is outlined in the follow-up communication to the Green Paper on consumer protection, which has just been adopted by the Commission.
I have recently been informed that a European trade association has taken legal action against certain holiday clubs in Spain for violation of Spanish timeshare law.
The association in question has provided information to the public authorities on dishonest practices, which have subsequently been investigated.
Several holiday club companies have been closed within the past few weeks and their principals have been arrested as part of the investigation.
Thus a more systematic cooperation between the industry and the relevant contact points in the Member States could and should be encouraged.
Such cooperation should aim to identify companies with which problems have arisen and against which enforcement action can be taken.
With this in view, it is the intention of the Commission to bring forward a specific proposal in relation to that particular issue by the end of this year or the beginning of next year.
Furthermore issues such as reciprocal injunctive powers between Member States would also, in my view, be of significance and could be effective.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0253/2002).
The following questions are addressed to the Council.
Question No 1 by Mihail Papayannakis (H-0356/02): Subject: Draft law on the media in Turkey The Turkish Government plans to adopt a controversial draft law on the media which is contrary to the country's constitution and Turkey's commitments to the EU.
EU officials, Member States' diplomats and the Commission's representative in Ankara have already voiced their concerns about the content of the draft law.
The Council would remind the House that the European Commission reacted immediately to this law partly on the grounds that it was not consistent with the politically based Copenhagen criteria and partly on the grounds that it conflicted with the accession partnership, a necessary prerequisite of which is that all legal stipulations prohibiting Turkish citizens from using their mother tongues in TV and radio broadcasts are to be cancelled without delay.
The EU has emphasised this precondition quite unambiguously in its discussion meetings with Turkey and did so most recently at the political directors' meeting on 17 May in Madrid immediately after the Turkish parliament had adopted the law.
The Council will monitor the situation carefully, since we are concerned here with absolutely crucial principles.
This last and unique decision by the European Union met with a vehement reaction from Ankara, which threatened to use its veto in NATO if it did not participate on an equal footing with the Member States in taking the relevant decisions.
They also observed, however, that the decisions made at the NATO Summit in Washington in 1999 and subsequently by the Council of Ministers and the Nice European Council mean that there are a number of points requiring further discussion.
What is termed the Ankara text constitutes a non-binding attempt to define guidelines which, at the same time as taking account of these misgivings, can prepare the way for being able as quickly as possible to fulfil the promise of developing close and transparent links between the EU and NATO.
In Barcelona, the European Council emphasised how important it is for a permanent arrangement to be reached as soon as possible between the EU and NATO.
The Presidency and the High Representative are doing their utmost to find an acceptable solution for all EU and NATO members, a solution which is, in all respects, in accordance with the decisions made by the Nice European Council and which can facilitate rapid progress towards the goal confirmed in Reykjavik by all the ministers from the EU and NATO countries.
The same condition exists in all the partnership and cooperation agreements entered into by the EU.
It has therefore always been clear that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Georgia was a long-term commitment for both parties.
When the purpose of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is considered, it is clear that it has created a solid basis for closer links between the EU and Georgia.
Since 1991, one million people have left Georgia, the gross national product per inhabitant has fallen by 70% and now 60% of the population are living under the poverty threshold.
The EU has provided EUR 350 million by way of aid since independence in 1991 but, in the Council's view, it would not at this stage be responsible to consider further steps that are subject to agreement.
This is also apparent from a recent letter from President Shevardnadze to Mr Solana, in which he talks about the need for further progress in the implementation of this agreement.
The lack of stability leads to problems involving terrorism, poverty, corruption, weak political institutions, illicit trade, emigration and the risk of ethnic conflicts.
Conflict resolution must therefore be our first priority.
It demands effort and good will on the part of all the countries in the Southern Caucasus, as well as on the part of the international community.
There are still, however, measures which Georgia itself can take in order to help itself.
The commitment Georgia entered into in October 2000 to adopt a national programme for the implementation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement has still not been fulfilled.
We look forward to progress in this area.
Mr President-in-Office, I am absolutely in agreement with your assessment of the tragic nature of the situation in Georgia.
I also concur entirely with what you said and with what Mr Rasmussen told us this morning about the importance of the enlargement process as a means of consigning the division of Europe to history once and for all.
We are also aware of the major role that the prospect of accession has played for all the countries of Central Europe in resolving the enormous problems that have faced them and continue to face them.
What we are proposing is no different to what we have offered and given to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, namely the prospect of accession.
A prospect of accession does not mean accession tomorrow, but it is the guarantee of a framework within which Georgia will be able to resolve its problems.
My question also relates to Georgia.
You rightly pointed out that Georgia's security depends on the security situation in the Caucasus, and I would like to ask you what measures are being adopted by the Council to improve the security situation in the Caucasus through the resolution of the Chechnya problem and thus achieve stability in Georgia as well.
So I agree with Mr Posselt in a way.
The Council must be much more up-front and say: fulfil the existing agreements and solve the immediate problems.
At this conference, a declaration was adopted, together with an action programme, confirming the intention of improving the least developed countries' preferential access to markets, while making progress towards the goal of giving all products from the least developed countries duty-free and quota-free access to the developed countries' markets.
The matter is therefore evolving, and we in the European Union can be proud of the fact that we have taken the strongest global initiative in this field.
The decision to allow the poorest countries access to EU markets is a practical expression of our desire to assist with their economic development in the long term.
Question No 7 by Dirk Sterckx (H-0384/02): Subject: Inadequacy of the 'strawberry regulation' in the event of serious obstruction of the free movement of goods Since November 2001, the movement of goods by rail between France and the United Kingdom through the Channel Tunnel has been seriously obstructed.
The Commission's report contained, inter alia, a number of proposals for possible changes to the regulation with a view to enlarging its scope and expediting the procedures.
Even though there was still limited experience of applying the regulation, the Council welcomed some of the Commission's initiatives designed to facilitate its practical application, for example a handbook on the procedures to be followed if obstacles are placed in the way of the free movement of goods.
The Council is still fully committed to protecting the free movement of goods between the Member States.
The Council resolution of 7 December 1998, which was adopted at the same time as the regulation, and the conclusions of 27 September 2001 are expressions of this.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is, of course, a real pleasure for me to be able to address you in this capacity.
I should therefore like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to ensure that, in the Council meetings, the presidency exerts pressure on the Member States so that they make every effort in order to maintain the free movement of goods.
Moreover, I do not wish in any way to trivialise the problem raised by Mr Sterckx.
Question No 8 by Marit Paulsen (H-0389/02): Subject: Fishing for industrial purposes and the ban on processed animal protein The impact on the environment and biological diversity of fishing for industrial purposes is widely known.
The Council has debated the effect of fishing for industrial purposes upon the environment on several occasions since then, but it has not at any time adopted a common position on this subject.
The Council has not yet debated this communication from the Commission.
Council Decision 2000/766/EC applies only to fishmeal feed for ruminants, and then only if the feed fulfils the conditions in the Commission decision.
That is what I can offer by way of a reply, and I recognise that it is not particularly satisfactory, but the Council has not yet debated the Commission communication.
Question No 9 by Cecilia Malmström (H-0396/02): Subject: Measures against the Cuban Government and support for the democracy movement Gisela Delgado Sablón, the leader of the independent libraries movement in Cuba, has been awarded the Lars Leijonborg democracy prize.
The prize is awarded by my party to individuals in state dictatorships who have made valuable contributions to democracy and human rights.
Mrs Delgado Sablón has been invited to Stockholm to receive the prize and I myself have invited her to take part in a seminar on the situation in Cuba to be held at the European Parliament.
Since 1996, the EU's links with Cuba have been defined by the EU's common position on Cuba.
As stated in the common position, the objective of the links with Cuba is to promote the transition to a pluralist democracy and respect for human and civic rights, as well as sustainable economic recovery and an improvement in the Cuban population's standard of living.
The dialogue with Cuba, which was broken off by the Cuban authorities in April 2000, was officially resumed on 1 and 2 December of last year when the EU Troika, consisting of high-ranking officials, travelled to Havana.
At its meeting on 17 June of this year in Luxembourg, the General Affairs Council approved the eleventh review of the EU's common position on Cuba.
The Council again confirmed that the objectives are still valid.
The Council thought it was important to continue the dialogue with Cuba so that practical results might be achieved, and it also let it be known that it is awaiting clear signals from the Cuban Government that the latter is fulfilling the objectives laid down in the common position.
On 20 May of this year, when the Varela Project was presented to Cuba's National Assembly, the Presidency submitted a declaration on behalf of the European Union in which it welcomed the Varela initiative.
We believe that the Varela Project is an important initiative which, with the strong support of Cuban civil society, can pave the way for the changes which the country needs and which Cuban society is calling for.
In the declaration, the EU expresses the hope that the National Assembly will adopt the initiative being considered and that the Varela Project will be the jumping-off point for a debate that will be able to promote a peaceful transition to a pluralist democracy and a Cuban society at peace with itself.
The Council took note of this eleventh review of the EU's common position on Cuba at the meeting on 17 June in Luxembourg.
The Council observed certain positive signs, such as greater religious freedom, fewer political prisoners, no use of the death penalty for the last two and a half years and the ratification of several UN instruments concerning human rights.
I thank you very much for your reply and I would like to point out that new events have taken place since I submitted my question.
The EU has a vital role to play in this matter, and the Cuban opposition desperately needs us.
The question concerned what I think of the initiative of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and what I have to say about the fact that no visas can be obtained for travelling from Cuba in order to participate in the seminar mentioned.
What it has shown, unfortunately, is that there is still a long way to go before quite basic human rights are respected in Cuba.
I should like to say to Mr Korakas that I hope that socialist advances do not need to be bound up with an absence of democracy and human rights and a lack of opportunities to travel to other countries and participate in discussions.
Mr President, I should like first of all to refer Mr Sacrédeus to the answer given by the Council to a similar question in October of last year concerning the UN Special Session on Children which was planned to have taken place in September 2001.
I am pleased to be able to inform Parliament that the action plan adopted at the session does in fact contain a section on the family, proposed by the European Union.
I do not believe that the problem is as dramatic as some people make out, but it is not my task, here on behalf of the Council, to adopt a position on the ongoing discussion I think we should have concerning this issue.
Even though the prosecution demanded the death penalty, the opposition leaders were, in the very end, sentenced to imprisonment of between six and twenty years for allegedly having plotted to overthrow President Obiang.
The EU expressed serious doubts about the authorities' willingness to defend the principle of the Rule of Law and to fulfil its human rights obligations, recently entered into in connection with the 58th meeting of the UN's Commission on Human Rights.
The EU also referred to Equatorial Guinea's obligations under the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment - the convention recently signed by Equatorial Guinea.
I do not know if you are aware, for example, that for a week they have not been provided with any kind of food and that 48 hours ago two of them have had to be taken to the Malabo hospital urgently with serious pains.
We are talking about the life or death of people who are very close to us.
I am a personal friend of Plácido Micó, General Secretary of the CPDS (social democratic party and member of the Socialist International), who has been found guilty at this trial, which was a disgraceful farce which demonstrated not just a complete lack of compliance with any guarantee, but also the existence of very serious physical torture.
What can be done in many of these cases is what I have stated in this House on behalf of the Council.
Appeals can be made and investigations carried out, and the countries in question can be held to the obligations they have signed up to.
I should like to assure Mr Newton Dunn that the Council is strongly in favour of the Kyoto Protocol's being put into practice, and I would also assure him that the Council regards energy consumption in buildings as a very important concern.
I would call attention to a resolution on energy efficiency in the European Community, adopted in 1998, as well as to the conclusions adopted by the Council on, respectively, 30 May 2000 and 5 December 2000 in response to the Commission's action plan for energy efficiency, calling for special arrangements in the construction sector.
The Council has also recognised the importance of energy efficiency in the conclusions adopted on 10 October 2000 on common and coordinated policies and arrangements in the EU for limiting greenhouse gas emissions, designed to help achieve the objectives of the European Climate Change Programme.
As far as the specific arrangements proposed in the action plan are concerned, the Commission has since presented the Council with a proposal for a directive on the energy efficiency of buildings.
On the basis of Parliament's statement, the Council submitted its common position to Parliament in advance of last month's part-session.
This protocol may only be amended in accordance with the procedure described in Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union.
I also would like to express my pleasure at seeing the President-in-Office of the Council here.
As a friend and colleague it is very nice to see him back and, if ever things go wrong in Copenhagen, I am sure we would be very delighted to see him back in one of these seats.
So I would suggest that if I table a question to the President-in-Office for the December part-session, perhaps he will give me an undertaking that he will tell me specifically what the Council has done with its own buildings as regards saving energy and setting an example to the world: energy-efficient light switches, for example, or any other measures that the Council is going to adopt within the next six months to set an example to the world.
Question No 14 by Bernd Posselt (H-0408/02): Subject: Loya Jirga and Afghanistan's future What is the Council Presidency's assessment of preparations for the Loya Jirga in Afghanistan, and what measures is it planning with a view to stabilising the country further?
In general, the Loya Jirga process has successfully fulfilled the objectives set in the Bonn Agreement, that is to say of choosing a Head of State and approving the structure of the transitional administration, together with its key personalities.
The most important political forces in the country have supported this Loya Jirga, and there has been unusually strong popular support throughout the process.
This Loya Jirga was apparently the most representative the country has ever had.
The Council remains convinced that the extraordinary meeting has paved the way for further reconciliation between the various ethnic groups and for its now being possible to create a stable political structure, something which is essential for the further reconstruction of Afghanistan.
In this connection, the Council would once again emphasise that the reconstruction aid from the EU, pledged in Tokyo, is still conditional upon all the Afghan parties' making a positive contribution to the process and the objectives established in the Bonn Agreement.
The Community and the Member States have pledged to donate EUR 600 million in this year alone, and EUR 2.3 billion in the subsequent years up until 2006.
As one of the four leaders of the steering group for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, the EU will continue to play an active role in the country's reconstruction.
In recent months, a good many projects designed rapidly to take effect have been implemented on the spot, and ever more medium and long-term reconstruction and development projects are in the process of getting under way.
The EU will continue to be heavily involved in the necessary reform of the security sector, where a number of Member States will continue to play a leading role in the training of the army, border guards, police forces, anti-drugs squads and so on.
Question No 16 by Giuseppe Di Lello Finuoli (H-0414/02): Subject: The European Union, the PKK and Turkey Having included the PKK in the list of terrorist organisations provided for in Regulation (EC) 2580/2001 Mr President, I should like to thank the many MEPs who have asked these well-founded questions.
The Council would like to emphasise that reviews are regularly carried out of the list of groups and entities included in the annex to the Council's common position on the application of specific arrangements for combating terrorism.
The Council does not share the view that inclusion of the PKK on the list will lead to increased oppression of the Kurdish population of Turkey.
The Council is fully aware that there are still significant and regrettable restrictions upon basic freedoms, human rights and, especially, cultural rights, particularly in those areas in which the state of emergency is still in force.
These circumstances are naturally covered by the political Copenhagen criteria, and it goes without saying that accession negotiations cannot be initiated until these criteria have been fulfilled to the letter.
The EU uses all the political discussion meetings with Turkey to press for further progress in terms of democratic reforms.
It is made clear on these occasions that human rights and principles of the Rule of Law must be fully observed in the fight against terrorism and that the latter may in no way be used as an excuse for introducing or maintaining restrictions upon these rights.
President-in-Office Haarder, I do not think the Council wanted to consider the fact that the PKK has dissolved itself, that it has not committed any more armed actions and that many of its leading members have handed themselves over to the Turks.
I must emphasise the fact that the PKK was included on this list at the moment when it had unilaterally started to respect the human rights of the Turkish people far more than Turkey itself.
Precisely because they are objective criteria, however, it might of course subsequently be possible to remove the PKK from the list on the basis of the same objective criteria.
I hope and believe, therefore, that my former fellow MEP is wrong about this matter.
Mr Haarder has not said a word about this.
The question is this: what terrorist act did Leyla Zana, a Member of the Turkish Parliament, commit to warrant her being classed as a terrorist?
For that reason it is extremely important for the European Union and its Council of Ministers to act consistently and remain realistic and cool-headed in the way they approach these problems.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have two questions for further clarification.
My first question is: which criteria exactly have led to the conclusion that the PKK is a terrorist organisation?
My second question is: in what way is this concept being interpreted as regards those who cooperate with such an organisation?
In the light, however, of what has happened and of the threat clearly facing our countries, the international community has reached a broad agreement about the need to take action against possible terrorist organisations.
Hence, these criteria and this list.
Question No 25 by Konstantinos Alyssandrakis (H-0420/02): Subject: Attempt to criminalise political beliefs in Slovakia A proposal has been tabled in Slovakia's parliament to amend the Criminal Code (Law 140/1961), to make provision for prison sentences for anyone expressing sympathy with communist ideas.
In its 2001 report on the future of Slovakia, the Commission concluded that the country continued to fulfil the political Copenhagen criteria.
The Commission also observed that, since 1999, Slovakia had done a lot in order further to consolidate and firmly establish the stability of its institutions and so strengthen democracy, the Rule of Law and human rights.
The second reading, which should have taken place in the middle of June, may possibly be deferred because there are a lot of other bills to be debated.
The Council is not at the present time able to assess the content of this bill.
It would be inappropriate for the EU to interfere in the democratic process in a third country.
The Council is therefore carefully monitoring developments in relation to the bill in question and is awaiting more detailed information about the debate in Slovakia's legislative assembly.
Thank you very much, Mr Haarder, for cooperating for so long today.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has examined this issue at a total of nine meetings and hearings over the last year and a half.
I myself am a lawyer, and these technical matters are sometimes very difficult for a lawyer to deal with, but they are issues which we must address nonetheless.
In my country, the Government has opportunities to develop legal provisions further.
In many cases, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has merely tried to improve the structure of the provisions, since we feel that they are far from perfect from a legal draftsman's point of view.
If we wanted to highlight three of its characteristics, I believe it would be right to mention the need to greatly increase awareness, to promote a culture of prevention, as well as the need to promote concrete programmes and actions in small and medium-sized businesses and to consider the demographic reality within which this strategy is to be applied.
The directive on machinery applies practically to all machines, fixed or mobile, of commercial industrial or private use, in the European Union.
The Employment Committee's amendments intended, with the contribution of social dialogue, to prevent endangering or weakening the provisions relating to health and safety protection, to respond to the need to simplify certain clauses and provisions for the sake of the clarity of the protection regulations and to relate them to other Community provisions, in particular framework Directive 89/391/EEC.
In this way, an approximation of national health and safety provisions will facilitate the free movement of machinery without reducing the existing obligatory levels of protection, and the specific measures will increase the quality of jobs, provided that the machinery is used in the prescribed manner.
Safe machinery and installations plus prevention - in other words, more awareness and a culture of prevention - will mean less possibility of risks becoming accidents and therefore better jobs in accordance with the strategy of the Lisbon European Council.
After all, we are looking for a regulation that will make the internal market work and, as colleagues said, will also ensure a consistently high level of safety standards for users of machinery and people who work with them.
Having said that this is a technical directive, it is important that I say to the Commission tonight that there are some important political signals contained in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
It is not the business of this directive to take satisfactory equipment off the market without any basis for doing so.
Some work still needs to be done; there are still some aspects to be considered.
I would like to add an oral amendment tomorrow to Amendment No 14(2), because while we put in "seagoing vessels", I was remiss not to mention "inland waterway vessels".
Those are the two main areas which I have identified as being pertinent and relevant.
Even though I am an engineer, it was not easy even for me to understand all the mechanisms.
Compared with the Commission's original proposal, the amendments adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market have the effect of facilitating the free movement of goods in Europe and improving both production aimed at consumers and consumers' health.
Indeed, in the end, the text will be clearer and forgery of the CE marking will be more difficult.
The debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs focused on a number of points.
The impact really would have been very, very negative.
It employs over 2.2 million highly skilled people in the 15 Member States.
The sector's production volume exceeds Japan's and rivals that of the United States of America.
Based on the experience of the past 12 years, the proposal reflects the Commission's determination to cut red tape whilst facilitating compliance with European Union legislation, taking due account of the subsidiarity and proportionality principles.
It is also fully in line with the recommendations of expert groups acting within the framework of better regulation of the internal market.
The proposal and its implications have been extensively discussed with a very wide audience of stakeholders.
Some could be included in a revised proposal as they stand, whilst others could be retained in part, or in principle.
Concerning Amendment No 5 on fairground equipment, the Commission is aware of the question and we are prepared to launch a study into the matter.
The new approach to technical harmonisation and standardisation provides for the free movement of goods and a high level of health, consumer and environmental protection.
We do not want to interfere in the general debate on commitology.
We therefore prefer to hold back the discussion of subjects that are common to the around 20 new-approach directives until the future communication that I have already mentioned, in order to have a coherent approach.
Practical application of the current machinery directive has shown a need for a regulatory committee procedure in order to resolve technical matters that do not infringe the democratic control by the European Parliament.
We also share the principle that there is a need to improve the complete texts of amended directives, as suggested in Amendment No 13.
Consequently, the Commission position on amendments is as follows.
Finally the Commission cannot accept all other amendments: Amendments Nos 1, 4 to 13, 19 to 21, 24 to 26, 28, 29, 31 to 40, 44, 48, 50, 55, 58, 60, 65, 67, 70, 71, 73, 77 to 79, 82 and 83.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
So I have the pleasure of presenting his report on his behalf.
We in Parliament - certainly on my committee -are very grateful to him for the amount of work that he does.
This report attempts to clarify the definition of what is racism and what is xenophobia and to make the actions that should be punished much clearer.
The rapporteur also recognises the importance of protecting the right to free speech and, equally, the need to protect minorities and other groups.
We must ensure that any new legislation does not stand in the way of these important European fundamental rights.
The rapporteur has looked very closely at the possibilities.
The rapporteur looks to Europol and Eurojust to enforce the existing structures across Europe, in cooperation with the judicial forces in each country.
This is a timely proposal, Commissioner, given the political context with which we are familiar in a number of Member States.
These figures should cause us concern, just as the recent election results in France have done.
Moreover, it is to be feared that the international situation will lead to a resurgence of such acts.
The European People's Party therefore welcomes the proposal for a framework decision on the fight against racism and xenophobia while suggesting amendments which, we believe, will clarify the decision and make it easier to apply.
I should like to emphasise the need to give the Member States a broad margin of discretion in the application and implementation of the decision, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle, and in particular the need to specify that the decision does not prevent any Member State from adopting or maintaining provisions of national criminal law that prescribe a higher degree of protection against racism and xenophobia.
In addition, we support the amendments tabled on the initiative of my fellow Member, Klaus-Heiner Lehne, which define the scope of the decision, indicating clearly that it applies both to offences committed in a Member State and to those committed elsewhere if the offender is a national of a Member State.
Let me add that my group will support Amendment No 12 but not Amendments Nos 24 and 25.
Thank you for your attention, and thank you, Commissioner, for having brought this very important legal and indeed political issue before Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the impact and the development of the use of digital networks and the Internet - which we can only welcome, I hasten to add - have also provided new scope for the communication of racist and xenophobic messages.
Racism and xenophobia must be tackled on a broad front, as happens in this report.
It is high time that we in this Parliament and the EU's institutions sent out a clear and unambiguous message that we will never accept racist outrages occurring in our Europe.
Our Europe must be a safe place for everyone, regardless of ethnic identity, race, religion or sexual orientation.
In certain Member States, including my own, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are enshrined in the constitution.
My doubt and my concerns in this case are, however, not great enough to stop me wholeheartedly supporting Mr Ceyhun's proposal.
From this point of view, the comments that were read on the Internet are very interesting.
We know that this marvellous communication medium, the Internet, can be used today to order revisionist magazines, buy tapes and CDs glorifying the Third Reich, preach anti-Semitism and, since 11 September, in the name of freedom of opinion, devote entire chat forums to outpourings of anti-Arab and Islamophobic invective.
Today we have a European monitoring centre as well as Article 13 of the Treaty, which enshrines the power of the Union to take action to combat discrimination.
In practice, however, racial discrimination has never before been such an acute problem.
Let me cite in evidence the report produced by the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia, which testifies to the upsurge in racism and xenophobia, including 'Islamophobia', a phenomenon reflected in the alarming rise of the extreme right.
Besides, why exclude the Member States from the implementation of this Decision when we know for a fact that institutional racism exists and that it must be combated with the utmost vigour?
Mr President, I am speaking in support of certain amendments but also to remedy some serious lapses of memory on the matter of the rights of peoples and ethnic groups.
We should, under the subsidiarity principle, approve the set of amendments by which the decision to take criminal action should remain with each Member State.
There is a point of reference, indeed, that Parliament should never lose sight of, especially on such a sensitive matter, which is that the provisions under which action may be taken to combat racism must not overstep the limit marked by the right to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of opinion, as laid down in Article 9 of the European Convention.
Leaving aside any consideration of the book's merits - in Italy, a non-racist country, it has been an enormous publishing success - the basic question remains open, which is the risk that so-called anti-racist rules can be used instrumentally for the purpose of political and ideological censorship and to curtail the freedom to express one's opinions, as guaranteed by the founding principles of the European Union.
According to the rapporteur, the Member States should punish crimes by their own citizens even if they were not committed within their own borders.
In some cases state racism, as now shown towards supporters of Breton independence, even denies fundamental rights of defence, such as the right enshrined in French law of free access without payment to court documents, as reported by me in a question to the Council.
The difference between these activities and discriminatory acts may in some cases be very subtle, but it exists, and our liberal culture means we must guarantee total freedom for historical research and expression of one's opinions.
Mr President, we are talking about an eagerly awaited and sensitive report which, if approved with certain basic amendments tabled by the PPE, may genuinely contribute to resolving a very serious problem.
The first part of the report aims to define as precisely as possible what a racist or xenophobic offence consists of.
Lastly, what is really needed to achieve these objectives is a commitment to enhance cooperation among Member States in the field of justice.
This is a new initiative following on from other actions taken in the past and based on a parent action in 1996.
Let us hope that this parent will in future bear other children like this report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the report kept the promise contained in its title, there would be nothing I would like more than to vote for it.
The rapporteur has done everything he can to criminalise the Internet as a whole.
According to the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, the year 2000 saw an increase in hostilities and attacks compared to the previous year, which were particularly serious in some countries of the Union.
As a result of the tragic events of 11 September 2001, the situation has grown worse, and we have seen an increase in tensions and violence, particularly of an anti-Islamic nature.
We must emphasise once again that racism and xenophobia constitute a clear violation of the principles of freedom, democracy, fundamental freedoms and respect for human rights as well as the Rule of Law - principles on which the European Union is founded and which are common to all Member States.
The Member States must be able to introduce or uphold provisions that are more favourable to protecting the principle of equal treatment.
It can never be emphasised too much, however, that there must be an equitable balance between combating the scourge of racism and xenophobia and safeguarding fundamental rights and freedoms, specifically the freedom of expression, the freedom of the press and freedom of association.
This is a highly topical example of the measures to be adopted in the field of asylum and immigration policies.
Immigrants who, at the end of the day, mostly come from countries which are the wretched victims of exploitation, including by countries in the European Union.
As the rapporteur points out, freedom of expression under the democratic Rule of Law has limits and, therefore, cannot be used as a justification for breaching the rights of third parties or for committing criminal acts.
Unfortunately, in various areas of Europe, we are still seeing expressions of racism and xenophobia, which are unacceptable in our democratic societies.
Measures in the field of criminal law such as those laid down in the Commission proposal constitute one element of this approach.
On the other hand, however, the Commission has always stressed that this must be a fight of a cultural nature and has for this reason already adopted various awareness-raising measures to combat racism and xenophobia in fields such as employment, immigration, asylum policy and the education system.
The Commission is flexible with regard to other aggravating circumstances.
It might be more appropriate, however, in this House, to talk about material targeted at a large number of people, given that racist material distributed by one individual, for example, the manual distribution of racist propaganda, could also be intended for a large number of people.
The Commission takes a slightly different view to that of the rapporteur on making the public condoning of crimes of genocide and of other extremely serious crimes illegal.
The conditions imposed by Amendment No 12 on this section are more rigorous than those recommended in the joint action of 1996 because they require the words or behaviour in question to be threatening, abusive or insulting and motivated by racism or xenophobia.
The joint action approved six years ago only required the public condoning to be undertaken with a racist or xenophobic objective.
Finally, I should like to emphasise that our proposal is clear on the matter of the definition and classification of the crime, because we always deal in practical actions and not in opinions.
The proposal for a framework decision cannot be interpreted in a way that threatens fundamental rights, specifically the freedom of expression and the principles recognised in Articles 10 and 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
In European law, however, as in the law of every Member State of the European Union, the appropriate balance must be guaranteed.
As laid down in Article 10(2) of the European Convention, the exercise of these freedoms, specifically the freedom of expression, can and must be weighed up against protecting order, against crime prevention and against protecting the honour or the rights of third parties.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, at 12 noon.
Mr President, about two years ago a conference was held in Brussels to mark the tenth anniversary of Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 on the control of concentrations between undertakings.
The positive assessment of the Regulation does not prevent suggestions being made with regard to partially reforming it or adapting it to the requirements brought to light by experience, but, in any case, these reforms will be limited.
The text of Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 itself stipulates that certain aspects should be reviewed ten years after its entry into force.
Perhaps the most important points of this Green Paper concern the definition of the thresholds at which concentrations are considered to have a Community dimension and, secondly, the hypotheses whereby a concentration notified to the Commission could be referred to the national authority or authorities for analysis and a decision and, vice versa, whereby a concentration notified to the national authorities could also be referred to the Commission.
In the first of these sections, the Commission suggests that the concentration should have a Community dimension if it needs to be notified in three or more countries, thus eliminating the complicated procedural rules contained in section 1 of Article 3 of the Regulation.
Certain national competition authorities have protested against the amendment of this section, or its replacement by criteria other than those of the Commission.
The second of these sections, regarding the referral of cases, is more complex, and the European Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have therefore made some suggestions.
The first concerns the suitability of parties consenting to the referral of the case by the European Commission to one or more national authorities.
Account should be taken of the fact that in several Member States, the decision is taken by a political authority, such as in my country, for example, where the Government takes this decision.
The criteria according to which concentrations are approved or rejected may therefore differ from the criteria used to analyse the effect on competition and its potential efficiency.
In an interview published in the Spanish press recently, Commissioner Monti emphasised the pressure that Governments apply in competition cases.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled two amendments: the first concerns the need for the efficiencies that could counter the ill effects of a concentration on competition to include the maintenance or creation of employment.
I also believe the report would be improved by the content of the second amendment, which asks that, in concentration cases, not only competitors, but also consumers, and, where appropriate, representatives of the workers concerned, be considered as interested parties.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has included in its report some of the conclusions of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I thank the rapporteur for his favourable position on these amendments and the competent committee for its approval.
This is because we consider it inadvisable to take risks with regard to legal certainty in our eagerness to introduce new, more or less innovative procedures when they are not necessary.
The Green Paper on the control of mergers outlines the way in which merger control will take place in Europe in the next couple of years.
Let us hope that this cooperation between the Member States leads to less bureaucracy and equal procedures and criteria.
The Green Paper by the European Commission sets the right tone.
I endorse the rapporteur's report - as, indeed, does my group - but I also share the concern, for example, that some of the proposals set out in the Green Paper cannot actually be achieved in practice.
The number of transnational corporate mergers has risen steadily in recent years.
Their growing number and complexity are undoubtedly one reason for reviewing the division of competence and adopting new arrangements on coordination between national and EU competition authorities.
Companies should undoubtedly have the greatest possible freedom to make management decisions, but it is often the largest employer in a region which carries out these restructuring plans.
The resulting job losses do not only affect the individual workers; they also have an impact on economic and social cohesion in the region as a whole.
I would like to remind you in this context that the Nice European Council expressly described economic performance as being inseparable from social progress.
This must be taken into account in competition law and competition policy, also within the framework of merger controls.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mr Berenguer Fuster for his excellent work.
Competition policy is particularly important for small countries, where the risks of monopolies and concentrations of undertakings are obvious.
Firstly, acquisition control should be more focused on promoting the development and rationalisation of companies in the internal market as a whole.
Secondly, acquisition control must become more predictable.
As the rapporteur, Mr Berenguer Fuster, points out, the control of mergers is one of the mainstays of Community competition policy.
Other objectives defined in the Lisbon strategy, such as the dynamics of full employment and competitive industries, must also be included in the assessment.
The question of renewing the assessment criteria is therefore crucial.
At the same time, procedures must be improved.
The procedure used to test the market must be made completely transparent; to this end, it will be necessary to listen to the arguments of the interested parties and to respond to their observations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as all the previous speakers have said, we face a number of challenges here.
On the one hand, there is the greater integration of the markets, and on the other, there is economic globalisation, which is associated, not least, with an increase in corporate mergers, and finally, there is the challenge of enlargement.
Competition is a key instrument to achieve our economic policy goals while upholding our principles within the framework of the ecological and social market economy to which Europe is committed.
The issue is competition within Europe, which we urgently need to achieve the Lisbon goals and to strengthen the internal market.
We want competition on the basis of common rules.
We underline the need for the division of competence and coordination between the Commission and the national competition authorities to be shaped in a coherent way.
The fact that we must embark on our own process of renewal is apparent from the example of Austria, where, since 1 July, we have had a new competition ? (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my thanks for this excellent report.
There will perhaps soon be only a few companies or operators left in the telecommunications sector, and although they might not attain a dominant market position in one, two or even three countries, it might come about globally.
This self-satisfaction is ridiculous, because the heads of the large companies that engage in these activities pay infinitely more heed to the interests of their major shareholders than to the opinion of the European Parliament.
The Vivendi affair, the latest in a long line of similar cases in the United States, shows how your system transforms production into financial capital, into a mere object of speculation.
Thanks also to developments in information technology, there has been a clear, decisive process of globalisation and concentration, which has brought considerable benefits in the development of investments and productive activities but has also generated crises that have destabilised banking and financial systems in developing countries.
The negative effects have spilled over into production and employment, and sometimes into the living standards of broad sections of society in these countries.
While it is true that concentrations have developed the economic systems of certain countries, which, through their tried and tested stability, have been able to benefit from the opportunities they bring, it is also true that concentrations should be able to favour initiatives to strengthen international support, which must aim at introducing reforms to encourage integration in world trade.
If economic concentrations are based only on the share golden value, or the optimisation of the value of the company, they will come into serious conflict with other market operators and consumers.
Only by using up-to-date methods and instruments is it possible to face challenges such as the forthcoming enlargement, the strengthening of relations with the other competition authorities and greater international awareness of the importance of concentration control issues.
The public consultation process has provided and is still providing a number of interesting and well documented opinions on jurisdictional, procedural and substantive questions raised in the Green Paper.
I consider this regulation to be part - an important part, yes, but just a part - of a package of reforms which will also include interpretative guidelines on the application of the substantial competition test - we have heard various opinions on the current dominance test and the possible alternative of the substantial lessening of competition test - which clarify in particular the procedures for analysing market influence in cases of concentration and the importance that should be attributed to efficiency considerations, which have been mentioned several times.
The draft regulation will naturally be made available for public consultation.
We must therefore think about the structural or management changes that will be needed to accompany this reform package, particularly how to take further the matter of rights of defence and the matter of strengthening our economic capacity and the role of economic analysis in our decision-making procedure.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to touch briefly on a matter that a number of Members of the House have raised this evening, which is the matter of a possible link between social policies and competition policies.
I want to be very clear on this point.
I do think, however, that to mix up objectives and include an objective on maintaining employment in the Merger Regulation would make it less effective.
As I was saying, we examine the competition and, in this context, the viewpoint of dependent workers and their representatives may take on greater importance if it concerns the effects of the operation on competition.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
It was to fill this need that the new Convention on the Conservation and Management of Fishery resources in the South-East Atlantic Ocean was agreed in April 2001, which will create the South-East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (SEAFO).
So far only Namibia has ratified the convention.
Hopefully Parliament's vote tomorrow will speed up ratification by the European Communities.
The purpose of SEAFO is to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources in the South-East Atlantic, beyond the national jurisdiction of Angola, Namibia and South Africa.
In other areas of the world, as fish stocks in coastal waters are progressively over-exploited and depleted, the fishing industry is turning more and more to deep water species.
Details of this are contained in my report.
I hope that there is a change of mind in the European Union on this.
Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the creation of a new regional fisheries organisation to govern the South-East Atlantic, namely the South-East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (SEAFO), and also the Community participation in this organisation.
As part of SEAFO, the Community will be able to contribute to research and to the adoption of measures to conserve stocks, applying high levels of responsible management to fishing, as laid down in the International Law of the Sea.
I would encourage the Commission and the Council to ensure that the Community participates in all the existing regional fisheries organisations and in those to be formed in future, in the interests of the Community fisheries sector, as the European Parliament requested of them in its resolution on the Green Paper.
I think this self-imposed restriction is particularly damaging to the principles of responsible fishing recommended by the Community, which the latter should advocate in all fora, in accordance with Article 174 of the Treaty, which states that the Community policy in this field will contribute to 'promoting measures at international level to deal with regional or worldwide environmental problems?.
I believe that the Community's presence and leadership in the RFOs are necessary both in order to safeguard the sustainability of resources in European and non-European waters equally - as stated by the Commission itself - and in order to ensure that due account is taken of the interests of nations that practise distant-water fishing, in the same way that account is taken of the interests of coastal States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, protecting, preserving and conserving fishery resources means respecting nature, considering our waters as a precious and irreplaceable livelihood and protecting life and biodiversity.
We consequently welcome the Convention creating a regional fisheries organisation for this area of the Atlantic high seas, which was concluded, as a matter of fact, in April 2001 by the main coastal States and by other States with an interest.
The proposal for a decision on the conclusion by the European Community of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Fishery Resources in the South-East Atlantic Ocean therefore deserves our full support.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you, Mrs McKenna, for your excellent report and Parliament for its sustained support for our efforts in the negotiations on the SEAFO Convention.
Since we joined the negotiations on the Convention in 1997, the Community has taken an active role in them and will now be one of the first parties to ratify the Convention.
The progress towards this Convention was an outstanding example of positive and pro-active multilateral cooperation in the field of international fishing.
This Convention implements the latest developments in maritime law, and it is living proof of every participant's commitment to responsible fishing in a maritime region where stocks are extremely vulnerable.
In this context, I should like to emphasise three points.
Firstly, the Convention establishes a good system of monitoring and control of fishing in this region.
The Council decision of 1998 provided for speedy ratification by the Community and the Member States simultaneously.
However, three Member States have yet to complete their internal procedures to ratify the Agreement.
I myself have actively intervened personally in the Council and with the Member States to speed up this process.
In our Commission communication on the reform of the common fisheries policy, we made it clear that we are very keen to promote cooperation between all coastal states in the interests of sustainable and responsible fishing outside territorial waters.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Certain Member States have neglected to comply with their obligations to inform the Commission of their vessels' catches or have only provided such information on an occasional basis during the period covered by the Commission's report.
That is because many Member States are quite simply too slipshod about fulfilling their obligations under the common fisheries policy.
That also applies to the submission of data, the implementation of common decisions and the use of adequate resources to ensure full compliance with the common fisheries policy.
In order to ensure the implementation of a common fisheries policy, it is, quite simply, necessary to demand that the monitoring and enforcement system and the system of reporting be employed correctly in every respect in all the Member States.
It is also necessary for other reasons, particularly in order to obtain fishermen's support and respect for the policies decided upon.
Responsibility for monitoring the application of Community legislation in accordance with Community principles naturally lies with the Member States.
There is a lot to indicate that the Member States need rather more help in fulfilling this responsibility, and it is, in the last analysis, the Community which has overall responsibility for satisfactory implementation of the legislation.
It is, therefore, quite simply unacceptable that the Commission has seen fit to observe that there is a blatant lack of training and experience in how to conduct basic checks on compliance with applicable common rules.
There must be efficient follow-up of infringements, and adequate resources must be set aside to ensure that the monitoring and inspection functions are in order.
The equivalent communication for 2001 is already more than one month overdue.
Some reports were incomplete or illegible.
The Committee on Fisheries welcomes the fact that the Commission has addressed the issue of harmonised penalties in chapter 5 of its proposals on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
Secondly, the report calls for a uniform system of minimum penalties whereas the proposal makes no mention of a minimum.
Even in the case of a serious infringement, some types of activity may be more serious than others.
With this caveat, I believe we can move a long way towards establishing a principle of equal treatment that, along with measures such as the establishment of regional advisory councils, will do much to create confidence in the common fisheries policy on the part of our fishing communities.
We support the proposal to create a common inspection and control structure, as requested by the European Parliament.
We therefore asked, in the resolution on the Green Paper, a report for which I was the rapporteur, for a harmonised European inspection and control system applicable to all professionals, without discrimination, with a uniform system of penalty proceedings and provisions with a high level of compliance in each part of the industry.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner to tell us, if possible, what action the Commission has taken in response to the non-compliances he describes in his communication with regard to Member States that have failed to comply with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 2740/1999.
The credibility of the common fisheries policy is at stake in this area.
In other words, the Commission must be given far wider powers in this domain, as we have been saying in this Parliament for many years.
As our rapporteur says, fishermen's support and respect for fisheries regulations will improve if fishermen's organisations are involved in the decision-making process.
If the professionals at the sharp end are not closely involved in the formulation of decisions, in the definition of measures to protect stocks and of technical provisions, if they sense that the common fisheries policy is unfair and is stacked against them, if they have the feeling that they are being condemned out of hand, the rules of the common fisheries policy will never be properly applied, and no repressive mechanism will ever alter that.
With regard to the measures to protect and regenerate stocks, instead of moving towards the procedures based on consensus and responsibility that fishermen want, the Commission seeks to drag us towards greater authoritarianism and centralisation, in spite of some spurious concessions, such as the regional advisory committees.
As you well know, rather than arousing enthusiasm, your proposals have only stirred up revolt in our ports and along our coasts.
In order to ensure the effective implementation of this important aspect of the CFP, we have for a long time had a set of Community control, inspection and surveillance mechanisms, compliance with which depends, basically, on the Member States.
What the Commission has now presented is an evaluation report on the way in which these mechanisms are implemented in the various Member States.
What the Commission is now suggesting in this report is the need substantially to strengthen the mechanisms for the control and surveillance of fisheries, including the possibility of the Commission's corps of inspectors' being able to act independently of national authorities.
We agree with this proposal, and this debate must now be incorporated into the debate on the CFP following 2002.
This shortfall in instruments is also seen in the lack of staff and financial resources, in the participation of regional fisheries organisations and in the issue of agreements with third countries as well as in the scientific study of fish stocks, a field in which the Commission does not have a credible system.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think it would be better to start the reform of the CFP by giving the Commission the necessary financial management instruments, establishing equal access to Community waters and to catches, whilst respecting the principle of sustainable development.
Controls must be strengthened, sanctions must be established with the same level overall in the EU.
I am therefore convinced that with this reform of the CFP, Europe has to regain credibility.
A major reform will only be successful if the men on board understand what Brussels imposes and believe in the success of the measures to be taken.
The Commission has recommended that 6- and 12-mile limits should be retained in order to protect sensitive inshore fisheries.
It is interesting to note that in the original draft to the CFP reform proposals, which were widely leaked in March, the Commission stated that 6- and 12-mile limits should become a permanent feature of the CFP without any time limitation.
It is essential that we see real management responsibility with the 12-mile limits given back to the Member States involved.
Much of this problem can be traced to the way in which we operate TACs and quotas.
There are many types of behaviour which infringe or could infringe the rules of the common fisheries policy, and it is a fact that actions constituting infringements may be somewhat hazy both due to the lack of information by the Member States and the lack of points of reference and possibilities of comparing markers, and also to difficulties in interpreting and reading information, given the lack of data on infringements proposed, fleet size, most effective control mechanisms and resources, etc.
While accepting the need for a certain amount of flexibility in interpreting rules and assessing behaviour, I believe now is the time to back reinforced cooperation between the various national inspection authorities, in order to provide information on penalties for infringements committed and also to back truly dissuasive, efficient, effective penalties, equal treatment and also to back a brave decision to prevent the entry of the products of illegal fishing into the European Union.
In conclusion, we must achieve an effective control, application and notification system, as stated in recital A, but this system will inevitably require of the Member States a spirit of mutual trust and accountability and an equal commitment to notifying infringements securely and effectively.
We all agree that controls and the enforcement of the legislation are key themes in the common fisheries policy.
The Commission welcomes this.
Today, I can put on record that all Member States have now come into line with the stipulations of Commission Regulation 2740/99.
Secondly, in some Member States, infringements are prosecuted under criminal law, whereas in others, they are dealt with solely by administrative means.
The call for Parliament to be informed in future by 15 April if Member States fail to comply with their reporting duty is something that I gladly support.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
In terms of content, the Van Lancker report has dealt with the sensitive subject of abortion too superficially.
Each country must be able to decide on the basis of its own values and its own approach.
The value of human life must be preserved and not destroyed.
The right to life takes precedence over any other right, including women's rights, and its defence must be the main objective of the policies implemented by public authorities. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure)
