Draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010 as modified by the Council (all sections) - Draft amending budget No 10/2009 of the European Union for the financial year 2009, Section III - Commission - Mobilisation of the Flexibility Instrument - Amendment to the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013: financing energy projects under the European Economic Recovery Plan (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mr Surján and Mr Maňka, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010 as modified by the Council (all sections) (11902/2009 - C7-0127/2009 -, and Letters of amendment Nos 1/2010 (SEC(2009)1133 - 14272/2009 - C7 - 0215/2009), 2/2010 (SEC(2009)1462 - 16328/2009 - C7-0292/2009) and 3/2010 (SEC(2009)1635 - 16731/2009 - C7-0304/2009) to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010, the report by Mrs Haug, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft amending budget No 10/2009 of the European Union for the financial year 2009, Section III - Commission (16327/2009 - C7-0288/2009 -, the report by Mr Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on mobilisation of the Flexibility instrument: in accordance with point 27 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, the report by Mr Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the financial framework 2007-2013: the European Economic Recovery Plan, second revision (amendment of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management) - C7-0305/2009 -.
However, I must also extend this expression of thanks to the various groups in the House, because had these groups not been able to cooperate and jointly represent the values which are important to Parliament and Europe's citizens, it would not have been possible at all to prepare the budget.
We felt and still do now that this budget must play an instrumental role in the management of the crisis.
More than EUR 11 billion are being allocated for these purposes.
We wanted to boost the economy, mainly via the cohesion policy.
However, Parliament felt it necessary to stand up for the farmers, which resulted in the creation of a EUR 300 million dairy fund which, although not a permanent fund, still represents a EUR 300 million increase.
With total funds of some EUR 750 million available, more assistance can be given to the dairy sector.
However, Parliament would also now like to stress that this must be accompanied by a complete review of the dairy sector's problems and its restructuring.
There is a huge need for this, but there is also a huge need for Member States to use the funds which they have available in a much more targeted and prudent way in order to encourage growth.
Only then will we be able to look Europe's citizens and taxpayers straight in the eye, as it is their money we are spending in an attempt to make the EU operate more efficiently and successfully.
For the first time in the history of the European Parliament, there will be a functional audit next year in two of its important units, the INLO Directorate-General and the security service.
The outcome has been beneficial.
The Court of Auditors has managed to reduce its administrative costs and has achieved higher productivity levels.
I would like to applaud the great professionalism of the Swedish Presidency.
If Europe is to overcome these problems, it must have effective and complex instruments at its disposal.
The Lisbon Treaty will bring us these instruments.
Even if today's discussion on the EU budget for 2010 really proves to be the last one this year, the work of both rapporteurs on the 2010 budget will not end but will continue for at least another three months for reasons connected with the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, when we debated this year's budget in December of last year, we were already aware and, as general rapporteur for the 2009 budget, I mentioned in the discussion that the impact of the financial market crisis and its repercussions on the real economy would be felt in all the Member States.
In April 2009, Parliament and the Council agreed on the funding for the first part of the economic stimulus proposed by the Commission.
The remaining EUR 2.4 billion, which was missing from the total of EUR 5 billion, was to be found this autumn.
The 2009 budget is also making a significant contribution to this solution.
All of this applies to the 2009 budget, which consists of EUR 133.8 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 116.1 billion in payment appropriations, and is therefore not exactly on a lavish scale.
I would like to remind Parliament that in 2008, when we adopted the 2009 budget, our priorities were also the competitiveness of the European Union, growth and employment.
The draft budget submitted to us by the Commission has not been accurately calculated or carefully estimated.
In 2009, we had more than 50 transfers and 10 supplementary and amending budgets.
I hope that we will all work towards this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the agreement on the 2010 budget, we are talking in terms of EUR 141.4 billion in commitments and EUR 122.9 billion in payments.
First of all, I would like to thank both rapporteurs very warmly for their dedication and I would also like to say at this point that everything that Mrs Haug has just said about the 2009 budget is absolutely right.
If we take a look at these figures, we can see that EUR 11.2 billion remains below the payment ceiling for the multiannual financial framework.
This means that, if required, and if there is the political will, the multiannual financial framework leaves us some leeway within the agreed limits.
This also applies to heading 2, where, after 2010 and given the possible margins, the air will be much thinner and actually should not be available at all.
Now we have integrated the second tranche of funds of EUR 2.4 billion for the so-called economic recovery package into these agreements.
The use of the flexibility instrument has enabled us to find an additional EUR 120 million for energy projects and EUR 75 million for the nuclear power plant in Kozloduy.
I would like to point out to the Commission that the way this was handled was very strange and I must also say clearly at this point that this is not the end of the matter.
We are expecting a total of EUR 300 million.
In addition, we have carried out a revision for unused funds from 2009 so that a total of EUR 1.9 billion for energy and an additional EUR 420 million for broadband Internet in category II could be put in place.
At this point, I would like to say that this decision on the total amount was the right one, but, of course, we must also make it clear today that our next task is the budgetary implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We surely cannot wait until 2014, as then we will be faced with further political priorities, which the European Union has to resolve as part of the globalisation process, and with other new tasks.
The resolution to be submitted on Thursday states clearly that we are calling on the new Commission to publish a report on the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement as soon as possible, as provided for in the agreements.
At the same time, and I would like to put particular emphasis on this, the Commission must commit to adapting, reviewing and modifying the current multiannual financial plan for 2007-2013 and to extending it until 2015-2016.
In addition, it must set in motion the process for the next multiannual financial framework in order to be able to hold a proper open and public debate about the subsequent financial framework.
This is the job of the new Commission and we will, of course, use both the hearings and the debates during the next quarter to call forcefully on the Commission and the Council to take on board these political priorities.
The budgetary procedure for 2010 has been demanding and I am pleased with the agreement that was reached between our institutions during the conciliation meeting in mid-November.
On the one hand, it creates the framework for establishing the 2010 budget with the goal of enabling the European Union to function as smoothly as possible and to implement policy in the way that we want it to be implemented, while guaranteeing a controlled increase in payments, particularly in the times that our Member States are currently facing.
I believe that the 2010 budget as a whole represents a balanced compromise between, on the one hand, the requisite budgetary discipline and sound financial management and, on the other, our duty to meet the expectations of our citizens.
The budget also represents a compromise between the different political groups, the different Member States and the different interests of the Council and Parliament.
It would not have been possible without our joint efforts, as everyone involved played their part.
In particular, I would like to thank Commissioner Šemeta, who fulfilled his role as an honest broker to the full.
Last, but not least, I would like to thank all of the staff in the three institutions who, in a very professional manner, helped to make this possible.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very happy to have the opportunity to speak to Parliament before it finalises its second reading with Thursday's vote on the 2010 budget and on amending budget No 10/2009, which has, in part, contributed to the successful outcome of the annual budgetary procedure.
The negotiations on the 2010 budget have required compromises and - may I dare to say - even sacrifices on all sides to achieve our common goal.
This would not have been possible without the constructive and responsible role played by the European Parliament and the Council throughout the negotiations.
That could only be achieved through a compensation mechanism and by using all budgetary means existing in the multiannual financial framework.
Despite such a difficult constraint, we succeeded in financing completely the Recovery Plan in 2010 and, as the general rapporteur points out, in agreeing on an EU budget that can be a tool to help overcome the economic crisis.
Last but not least, the two arms of the Budgetary Authority have acknowledged the need for further assistance in 2010 to Bulgaria's efforts relating to the decommissioning of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant, through the use of the flexibility instrument.
That has led to an important reduction in the reserves entered in the 2010 draft budget at the time of Parliament's first reading.
Finally, there is amending budget No 10/2009, revision of the financial framework and mobilisation of the flexibility instrument.
This shows that, to achieve our goal, we have been able to make the best use of the tools provided by the current interinstitutional agreement.
I would like also to express my thanks to the rapporteur for the 2009 budget, Mrs Haug, for her work throughout the year on the implementation of the 2009 budget and her support for amending budget No 10/2009, which is part of the 'package' linked with the revision of the Multiannual Financial framework and the financing of the Recovery Plan.
This year's amending budget foresees a reduction of EUR 3.2 billion in payment appropriations, which is significantly lower than the EUR 4.9 billion reduction of last year, and points to an improvement in the execution of a budget which, after the proposed reduction, is set at EUR 113 billion for 2009.
However, there is still room for further improvement, and I can assure you that the Commission will continue to do its utmost to make best use of the authorised budget appropriations in 2010.
As to the issue of the simplification of procedures in order to accelerate the implementation of expenses, while this avenue can be explored, I believe a careful balance needs to be struck between real simplification and the need to abide by the rules in order to safeguard the EU's financial interests.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this budget represents a response to the economic crisis, with its focus firmly on Europe's citizens.
We are therefore prioritising the European Economic Recovery Plan, with financing of EUR 2.4 billion for the coming year.
We welcome the granting of EUR 300 million of additional support to the dairy sector but I would stress that a budget heading should be created to establish a permanent fund for this sector.
We also consider it very important that the current multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013 be revised and extended to the 2015-2016 financial years, as we proposed.
I must point out that tackling climate change, together with energy security, are EU priorities that do not feature prominently enough in this budget.
There are few problems remaining to be solved ahead of the second reading and all of the parties concerned have helped in a constructive way to achieve this.
We were pleased that the Council finally accepted our view that the solution required new money and the use of the 'flexibility instrument', just as in the case of Kozloduy.
From Parliament's point of view, the idea is that the EU should increase investment in innovation in order to tackle social exclusion and unemployment.
This would seem to be particularly important given that 2010 is the European year of social integration.
This year's budget negotiations have resulted in nearly all new priorities having to be financed by changes in the ceilings of the long-term framework and by utilising the flexibility instrument.
In my opinion, the principle should be that new funds should be appropriated for new tasks.
This principle usually applies at national level and should also apply to the EU.
As others have done, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we, in Parliament, have been able to retain our important priorities in the second reading, too, even if we have had to make some cuts in connection with the agreement that we had with the Council.
As others have done, I would like to highlight two things.
Firstly, the lack of flexibility, with regard to which I would like Mr Šemeta, who is, of course, continuing in another post within the Commission, to take note of the fact that we do indeed need this mid-term review of the budget and I would like the Commission - the new Commission - to take this seriously.
The next few years, when we will need to be flexible, will be very, very difficult if we cannot get the finance ministers to provide more money, and I think this will be more difficult than usual in the current economic climate.
I think there are good grounds for examining the conditions of EU employees and, first and foremost, examining whether the rules that we have in place for staff in the EU system also provide the leadership opportunities we need in order to attain the effective implementation of the EU's policies.
The fact that we had 50 transfers and 10 supplementary and amending budgets in 2009 must make it obvious to everyone that the objectives of this budget, with its tight constraints and rigid structure, are clearly no longer up to date.
We must all work together to change this if we want to do things better in future.
In this context, crisis refers to both the financial crisis and the economic crisis.
To achieve this, we must all act together with regard to our budgets, our management of resources and the way in which we live and manage our finances.
This is the only way to create new jobs.
This is our only hope of convincing the citizens of Europe that the European project has a future.
This also means that we - the Member States and the European Union - must jointly invest more in education.
We must provide support for it in quite a different way so that our young people have opportunities in Europe and also throughout the world.
There is one thing that I would like to add.
We must also change our agricultural policy and our agricultural export subsidies dramatically and focus on the Structural Funds.
The 2010 budget represents a step in the right direction, but it is by no means enough.
It is important that they do not copy our mistakes, but instead that we all cooperate - the industrial nations, the emerging economies and the developing countries - on moving towards a new way of living together and a new type of economy.
Nevertheless, not only the decommissioning of Kozloduy, but even support for the construction of a new power plant, would be more important than spending in the milk fund with this untimely and inefficient increase.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are in danger of not seeing the wood for the trees with this budget.
The question I put to you, quite frankly, is this: if there were no crisis, would this budget be very different from what it is?
That, in fact, is why the report on which we are going to vote on Thursday recognises that the Council is not prepared to increase the funds available to tackle the crisis, is reducing the appropriations for the Structural and Cohesion Funds precisely when the crisis is happening and is severe, and, I repeat, does not give climate change the prominence it deserves.
You can therefore count on the left for a robust, radical and redistributive revision of the financial perspective until 2016, but do not count on the left to tart up a mediocre budget that neither addresses the social crisis nor shows the ambition needed to fight climate change.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the proposal for the second reading of the 2010 budget still represents a 6% increase in respect of 2009.
The Council must know all too well how such funds are used.
The Council must know all too well that this disparity is due to the lack of intelligence and of consultation that characterises the budgeting process.
Parliament welcomes the increase in administrative expenditure - an increase which also includes Members' salaries.
As I advised back in October, British citizens will see their contribution to the European Union raised from GBP 45 million a day to GBP 50 million a day, while the British Government will be reducing public services so as to allow a cut of GBP 12 billion in the national budget.
Colleagues, listen to your conscience and vote against this budget. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of whether we live in urban areas or in the countryside, we all form part of an information and knowledge society.
Energy security, both now and in future, is an important issue at a European level.
Bulgaria has decided to close the Kozloduy nuclear power plant immediately.
The joint declaration on building policy emphasises the importance of a medium- to long-term approach to building.
For me, three things are important in this area.
This budget is therefore awkward in two respects.
It needs to respond to the crisis, but reflect awareness that during a crisis, the resources available are scanty.
It needs to make a positive contribution to economic recovery, but also cut, reduce and contain spending where possible.
This budget will make EUR 141 billion available for next year.
That is not much more than was available in 2009, but huge efforts have been made, a great deal of work has been done on the priorities and on channelling the available resources to the current priorities.
This budget line will be allocated about EUR 65 billion for next year.
The environment too, which encompasses agricultural policy, will be allocated approximately EUR 60 billion.
This 2010 budget, however, relates, above all, to the economic recovery plan.
This plan attracted strong support last year, but it was not fully financed in 2009.
Substantial efforts have also been made, however, to shape this budget in accordance with the Lisbon strategy, to provide even more resources than those provided by the Commission in the draft budget for the Erasmus programme, for lifelong learning, because there is a question which we must ask ourselves honestly, namely, whether this is a useful budget, but, first and foremost we have a fundamental yardstick: the usefulness of the budget must be tailored to Europe's citizens.
It must be a useful budget for every constituent citizen of Europe, and it is on the basis of this usefulness, tailored to the people, that I believe we must initiate and continue a sensitive debate on the review of the margins of availability and the resources that we wish to give to Europe for its policies. (LV) Mr President, I would like to speak about Europe's Structural Funds.
These account for approximately 35.5% of Europe's total budget.
The most recent information is as at 1 October 2009: we are at the end of the second year, linear implementation might be 28.5%, the payments rate is 24.35%, and here are the first problems. 55% of Member States are under this average.
Specifically, we have unpaid money of EUR 16 billion for the old fund for the 2000-2006 period.
That means that 20% of the Member States have not taken up this money and will not now receive it.
In the European Social Fund, this figure is EUR 1.9 billion, since 16% of the Member States have not fully implemented the amounts.
I hope that this will be money well spent and not wasted.
These resources must be properly allocated and used in an effective and efficient way by Member States.
I think this was very much needed and it is a good example of this Parliament's achievement in the formation of the budget, with funds being used, let us put it this way, that were not being used in other areas.
I want to speak a little bit on what I would like to see in the budget for the future.
I want to see that the people it has helped are the victims of violence, the victims of terrorism, because I think we can do more in this area.
Can I take this opportunity to briefly express my concerns about the administration of EUR 60 million of funds in Northern Ireland.
They are about 18 months behind in distribution of these funds.
Therefore, Europeans' money would be put to good use; it would promote development, and not just increase the return on capital invested. (NL) Mr President, the 2010 budget is being adopted against the background of the economic crisis, and additional care must be taken when budgeting EU funds.
If the European Union wants its work to be credible, it should be confining itself to its core tasks rather than inflating its own role in combating the crisis.
A stronger set of priorities, on the other hand, would make us a constructive partner for the Council, particularly at a time of economic crisis, when Member States are experiencing shortfalls and are having to make drastic cutbacks.
This year we have had discussions in the area of agriculture, which have been virtual discussions, but which have had a real result.
Next year, the discussions will be real from the start in that we have the ordinary legislative procedure, and therefore it will be an exercise in responsibility for all MEPs.
We can be especially pleased because we have found EUR 2.4 billion of fresh money to fund the second part of the European Economic Recovery Plan.
I challenge you, President-in-Office of the Council, to explain this agreement to a citizen who is still interested in what we do in the European Parliament.
To make myself clearer - and I will finish now - we are not going to accept cuts in the cohesion policies or in the agricultural policy. (NL) Mr President, we are discussing the last budget under the Treaty of Nice.
Next year, things will be very different: for the first time, Parliament will be able to get its teeth into agricultural policy and fisheries expenditure, for example.
The answer is 'no'.
In response to a request by our group, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Commission will be presenting a proposal on this.
The current system gives the Union too little elbow room and has the perverse effect of making Member States more interested in how much they can get back than in whether the European contribution is really effective.
I also take the view that we need to do much more to halt the decline in world biodiversity. (EL) Mr President, we do not agree with the political approach of this budget, because it increases military spending and because it slowly but surely merges its policy with NATO policy.
The five-year financial framework cuts agricultural spending and fails to support the household economy, cohesion and the fight to maintain the climate.
We have all been turned into prima facie suspects.
I want to make one thing clear: we are against the budget, but our arguments are completely contrary to those we heard earlier from the non-attached members from the United Kingdom.
That just leads to hostility and ultimately to conflict. (HU) The European Commission is planning to divert considerable resources to two areas in the modification of the 2009 budget.
If we blame the candidates in this sector, this makes reducing red tape an even more emphatic requirement.
We already have outstanding appropriations from a period of two and half years which have not been discharged and we are piling up at least a further EUR 30 billion on top of these appropriations.
We have voted in favour of the report of the Court of Auditors in which we called for a traffic light system, but the Committee on Budgets later refused to lend its authority to this system with corresponding reserves.
All of these things are contradictions and, in my opinion, the House is not yet prepared to be realistic or to lend its authority to its own resolutions.
The special report from the Commission on the use of EU funds in Bulgaria until this summer did not mention Kozloduy, although it has received money from PHARE.
Up to the end of 2009, at least EUR 602 million was spent on Kozloduy.
Therefore, we should at least stop pressing for the subsidiary budgets, because the result is that we ourselves no longer have any idea what is happening. (HU) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during the current financial and economic crisis, particular attention must be focused on growth, competitiveness, jobs and a more efficient and simpler implementation of the Cohesion and Structural Funds.
I would also like to mention the intelligent energy projects and support for lifelong learning.
We must emphasise that it is a real result that we have managed to raise the EUR 2.4 billion for economic recovery.
I am also delighted that we have managed to guarantee confirmation of the Galileo budget.
Almost EUR 2 billion has been allocated to energy projects, which is perhaps the most significant result that the European Parliament can credit itself with.
We have also managed to provide support for the safe closure of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant in Bulgaria, and I would particularly like to emphasise the safe aspect in this matter.
We must also stress that Parliament has made responsible decisions and acknowledge that we have allocated the budget margins sensibly.
However, our margins are dwindling.
Parliament can be proud of the 2010 budget.
In order to achieve this, I wish us great strength and perseverance in the coming years.
Beyond these remarks, which have been made very effectively, I should like to stress two points.
I believe that this is evidence of what is happening in Europe. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has come out well in these negotiations.
These budget negotiations have made that very clear.
As rapporteur for the agriculture budget in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I can say that although our budget - the agricultural part - has been squeezed very tightly, we are still within our margins.
It is a success for Parliament to secure EUR 300 million for the milk fund in the face of all the arguments against this made by the Commission over the years and by the Council, especially given the difficult situation which dairy farmers find themselves in.
We have allocated more money to the 2010 budget than we did in 2009.
Indeed, the 2010 budget provides funding for the second part of the recovery plan totalling EUR 5 billion, a derisory amount.
Admittedly, it will allocate EUR 300 million to the milk fund, but this is insufficient when we know that in France, for example, the net income of farmers fell by 34% in 2009.
The 2010 budget earmarks EUR 25 million for microfinance and, against the advice of the Council, allows the draft budget relating to Cohesion Fund interventions to be kept.
It is therefore somewhat through the lack of an alternative and by default that we shall vote for this budget, because Europe - the citizens - cannot do without its interventions, however inadequate.
From now on they will be unable to make do with such a feeble budget as the one we are being offered. (GA) Mr President, I completely support the European Parliament's decision to prioritise funding for the European Economic Recovery Plan.
Unfortunately, young people who are looking for jobs for the first time in their lives are the worst affected.
The Union has again taken on this positive role in Ireland and the recovery plan is vitally important in relation to this.
Firstly let me emphasise the need to use our 2010 budget and, in particular, the European cohesion policy financial instruments, with the utmost expediency in order to stimulate economic activity in all of the Union's regions and cities and create the leverage necessary to revitalise Member States' economies.
Lastly, in this context, I regret the cuts in support for candidate countries, the IPA regional development and human resources instrument, which addresses areas such as unemployment, social exclusion and education investment - a cut of EUR 7 million, which is 0.5% of the available operational credits that go to administration - without regard to the need of ensuring good local administration and without regard to the basic principles of good financial management which is so dear to this House. (RO) I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs for the results they achieved in negotiating the 2010 budget.
Member States' budgets are currently experiencing major difficulties in tackling the economic crisis, especially when many of the problems they are contending with extend beyond a national scope.
The future Commission will have a huge responsibility in helping Member States and the European Union's citizens overcome these hardships.
However, I wish to draw Member States' attention to their responsibility in accessing European funds.
I join my fellow Members in calling for the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework to be reviewed as urgently as possible, failing which we will not manage to return here with a budget for 2011.
The 2010 budget will still introduce an innovative feature, which may seem of minor importance to many, but this is not the case.
The first concerns research, in particular, the sixth and seventh framework programmes.
However, difficult decisions remain for Parliament, such as that on funding for the Microfinance Facility - I hope Members will still regard that as a priority - on ensuring that we find the funding for Kozloduy in the next three years, and on finding funding for new priorities: priorities coming out of Copenhagen, priorities coming out of the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty and priorities coming out of the new 2020 strategy we will be discussing next year.
If we can do all these things, then we will meet our priorities and, more importantly, we can show the citizens of Europe that this Parliament is relevant.
Our budget should follow our priorities, but it should also follow the priorities of our citizens.
That is the key message for us as a parliament, but also a key message for the Commission and for the Council. (HU) It is perhaps no coincidence that the preparation of the 2010 budget is attracting this much attention.
We supported every proposal, including the 8.4% increase intended to boost competitiveness, that we hope will retain jobs or create new ones and contribute to the economic recovery plan, the renewed Lisbon strategy, as well as the lifelong learning programme.
I feel that it is particularly important that we managed to earmark EUR 25 million in funding for the future microfinance facility in 2010.
We are very privileged to have very professional and committed people working for Parliament, the Council and the Commission, but the reality of it is that within this Parliament, we do not have a grasp of exactly what a lot of these staff do.
When there are 27 Member States represented in this Parliament, 27 Commissioners coming together from those Member States into the Commission, and Council Ministers going back to their Parliaments and coming here, it is very easy for the staff elected to serve us to actually take over the agenda.
One of the most pressing problems is the matter of increasing budgetary means for 2010 for the translation of questions referred for preliminary rulings, which are a basic instrument used by national courts to allow them to adapt national jurisdiction to European jurisdiction.
The reduction of means by the Council affects what are already highly curtailed strategic IT projects proposed by the Court for 2010 to improve its quality of service with a simultaneous reduction in the number of staff employed.
Extremely important contributions have been made about particular issues, but we have to look at the broad European context in order to understand the significance of what we are talking about.
It seems to me that, in a democracy, every institution has to have a budget, and the institution must account for what it is spending to those who are actually making the contributions and who are providing the resources.
Therefore, there is a strong incentive to bring this long-lasting saga to a successful resolution as we will then be in a position to fight the nasty impact of globalisation with a truly powerful tool. (PL) Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2010 is a difficult compromise.
The increase in spending on research and innovation is justified.
If we want to stimulate economic conditions and reduce unemployment and social exclusion, we should increase funding for the Microfinance Facility.
I would just like to add something: although I will join the rest of my group in voting in favour, on Thursday, of the budget we are debating, I nevertheless wish to stress that we are experiencing not only an economic, financial and environmental crisis - as was pointed out earlier - but also a very profound social crisis linked to the rise in unemployment.
I regret that, because it would have sent out a strong signal that we are moving in the direction of a more social Europe. (LT) Thank you, Mr President, Council, Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the 2010 budget really is an example of a good compromise.
I definitely do not agree with those colleagues who have said that the 2010 budget is a crisis budget.
We, the representatives of some states, know very well what a crisis budget is, when budget revenues have decreased by 30% and more in two years.
I would also like to mention that there are some problematic areas.
We have a problem: in the Committee on Regional Development, we are still working on the proposals for changes whereby, for 2009-2010, the European Commission (EC) will not ask the Member States for cofinancing.
We have adopted the 2010 budget, but there is no money in this budget to provide for those needs; the 2009 budget is finished.
Otherwise, the Committee on Regional Development will be working in one direction, and we in the Committee on Budgets will have no idea what we can do because we have no more money for these proposals in the upcoming 2010 budget. (PT) Mr President, in the midst of the economic and social crisis, which is having terrible effects on employment and people's living conditions, I am sorry to say that this draft Community budget for 2010 does not go nearly far enough.
The draft which is now here for approval perpetuates a budget that prioritises and finances the European Union's neoliberal and militaristic tendencies.
In total payments, the cuts in cohesion spending amount to roughly EUR 2.5 billion compared with what was approved at first reading.
For all these reasons, we cannot agree with this draft budget, which is over EUR 11 billion smaller than was planned in the multiannual financial framework for 2010.
In addition, Europe is making substantial general increases in the budget, including the provision of EUR 5 billion through the recovery plan.
However, they are key people.
This will increase the legislative activities of the EU generally with a significant overall impact on the powers of the European Parliament and its activities and therefore also on the need to boost the administration.
In the coming months, we will examine and quantify the financial resources necessary for implementing the new policies of the EU connected with the Lisbon Treaty.
Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members.
Ladies and gentlemen, we can confidently assume that the 2010 budget will be the last of its kind, the last with this structure, which leads us to believe that we can finance the necessary policies of the European Union and its new challenges and tasks in this way.
We expect the new Commission to carry out the mid-term review quickly, as, under the terms of the agreements made in 2006, this should have been submitted by 2009 at the latest, in other words, by the end of this year.
We cannot wait until 2014 for reform.
Mr President, now that we have all agreed on the 2010 budget, in line with political realities, today we must, of course, focus our attention on what lies before us in the next few months.
For this reason, I would like at this point to say once again that without adjustments, reviews and revisions, nothing can be done.
We cannot put off indefinitely the necessary process of phasing in the budgetary challenges of the Treaty of Lisbon.
If we want to increase Europeans' sense of security in 2010, we need to implement this budget in an effective and practical manner.
This is exactly why we have increased energy security, are supporting the creation of jobs and introducing a microfinance facility.
We have all achieved this by spending every last penny of the resources received through the multiannual financial framework.
The Commission and Member States share particular responsibility for future success.
If there are resources available for creating new jobs, the number of jobs will actually increase.
If there are other resources available allowing underdeveloped regions to catch up, the volume of the GDP produced locally in these regions will actually grow.
Only when we are in control of these conditions can we say that we have received value for our money and that it was worthwhile Europe's citizens making the sacrifice, because the current contribution to the EU budget of EUR 123 billion is certainly a sacrifice.
The vote on Jutta Haug's report will take place tomorrow.
Just as with a budget debate in any national parliament, we also need to make it quite clear in this House what a draft budget specifically contains and the message which this conveys to society.
During an economic crisis, when the citizens of Europe are being subjected to waves of redundancies and cuts in social services, the European Union must also make savings.
Next year, the EU plans to spend about EUR 123 billion, which is seven billion more than this year.
For years, the European Court of Auditors has been identifying in its annual reports blatant faults in the agricultural and structural funds.
In March 2009, with the economic recovery plan that has been approved by the European Council, it is intended that in 2009 and 2010, EUR 5 billion of unused EU budgetary funds will be allocated for investment in projects concerning the connection of energy networks and the development of broadband networks.
I am very pleased to note that, in relation to the second year (2010) of funding of the recovery plan for the European economy, a result was achieved in the Conciliation Committee, through the investigation of the 2007-2013 financial framework and a transfer of funds, which guarantees funding amounting to EUR 2.4 billion for next year, and also makes it possible to implement the objectives specified in the economic recovery plan.
If the changes made to the financial framework in connection with the recovery plan for the European economy leave very little funding in 2010 to cover the expected financial needs, then I agree with the rapporteur's position that the multiannual financial framework currently in effect does not meet the European Union's financial needs, and also that the European Commission should immediately put forward a proposal concerning an interim summary of the multiannual financial framework currently in effect.
Preparing an EU budget in conditions of economic crisis and the transitional period from Nice to Lisbon was a very difficult task.
The budget for 2010 is the last one in this structure.
The Commission must complete this task without delay.
The 2010 budget is very carefully balanced as it makes full use of all the opportunities for allocating expenditure.
As a result of this and as a result of economic fluctuations caused by the turbulent period of economic crisis, the budget may become very fragile.
This budget must be supported in the knowledge that it is perhaps too finely crafted for the current period of insecurity and working with it in 2010 will require a certain measure of flexibility.
in writing. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, should like to express my satisfaction at the agreement reached on the budget for 2010.
That leaves little room for response in the event that the EU has to respond to unforeseen requirements or wants to react to new political challenges, such as the EU strategy for 2020, or to new measures to combat climate change.
Finally, I think that we all agree that we cannot talk of a better Europe, of a Europe which is closer to the citizens, without commensurate financing.
The 2010 EU budget is the last budget to be approved in accordance with the Treaty of Nice.
The new treaty grants the European Parliament greater power and the last word when it comes to the adoption of the budget.
The 2010 budget allocates significant proportions of its funds for the conservation and management of natural resources, social and economic cohesion, growth and employment, competitiveness and innovation, regional development, agriculture and rural development.
The European Economic Recovery Plan features in the 2010 EU budget with EUR 2.4 billion available for funding strategic projects relating to energy, transport, the development of broadband networks in rural areas and for supporting rural communities.
I welcome that the European Parliament has managed to allocate a sum of EUR 300 million in support of dairy producers.
I hope that the mid-term review in 2010 for the 2007-2013 financial framework will enable Member States to absorb the Structural Funds better, particularly in the area of transport and energy efficiency in residential buildings. (The sitting was suspended at 11.25 and resumed at 12.00)
