Nevertheless, the number of people infected with HIV or dying of AIDS continues to grow.
It is estimated that in 2006 4.3 million people, both adults and children, have been newly infected with HIV, which is 400 000 more than two years ago.
More than 63% of all adults infected with HIV now live in Sub-Saharan African countries, and 33% in South Africa.
The biggest increase in the past two years has been observed in Eastern Asia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, where the number of people infected with HIV has risen by 21%.
The strategy set up by the Commission in 2005 was centred around the priority of strengthening prevention, treatment and care in certain regions.
The situation in Sub-Saharan African countries is worse still.
Women account for 60% of adults of 15 years and above infected with HIV.
Thanks to the increased provision of antiretroviral treatment, some 2 million lives have been saved in almost four years and even in countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, some 8 000 people have received treatment.
HIV/AIDS is closely linked with malaria and tuberculosis, which are also poverty-related infectious diseases.
The European Programme for Action must be implemented and coordinated by the Commission, both at State and at worldwide level.
Over the course of the years, the Commission has continually increased its resources in the fight against HIV/AIDS in all developing countries, especially in Africa, where it is providing assistance to partner countries via budgetary support in their efforts to address the structural factors underlying the HIV epidemic, such as healthcare reforms and the crisis in the area of human resources in the heath sector.
Among other initiatives, the Commission has also invested a considerable amount of money, EUR 522 million over five years, in the fight against HIV/AIDS in developing countries from the global fund for the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
The Commission has also increased investment in the research and development of vaccines and other means of prevention, such as microbicides, with a view to broadening the existing range of HIV prevention mechanisms.
In this connection, the Commission will continue to work, on a broader scale, with the help of the financial instruments at both national and global levels, including the global fund for the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
In the fight against HIV/AIDS, we have the opportunity to achieve better results, but this requires political will.
We are now commemorating 25 years of AIDS.
We remember the 25 million fellow citizens who have died from AIDS and we think of the 40 million living with AIDS.
We need to invest in research and trials for the development of AIDS vaccines.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (LV) Mr President, Mr Špidla, I am pleased that the Commission has devoted the first section of this communication to the need to involve civil society in all aspects of combating this epidemic.
As the latest data from UNAIDS demonstrate, the number of HIV infections is continuing to grow and, in some countries, we are even seeing a fresh outbreak of the virus.
Commissioner, you said that a few thousand Africans were receiving treatment, but, in Africa, 30 million people are HIV-positive, 6.5 million of whom require treatment.
For this reason, we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left believe that it is crucial for the resolution on which the House will vote to commit the Commission and the Council to: 1) acknowledge the failure of the decision of 30 August 2003; 2) propose within the WTO to amend the TRIPS agreements and the new procedures for granting compulsory licences, which must be able to respond swiftly to health emergencies caused by the HIV epidemic; 3) allocate EUR 1 billion to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, as was already requested by Parliament on 2 December 2004 and ignored by the Commission and the Council; 4) dedicate more resources to research into medicines designed to treat diseases specifically affecting the south of the world and oblige the private sector, which has always benefited from public research, to set aside a reasonable amount of its own research for these neglected diseases.
The fact is, we must take a decisive stand in fighting the spread of drug use, which means zero tolerance, help and rehabilitation for those who are, to all intents and purposes, sick and should be treated as such.
We also need to launch a serious fight against prostitution, which we are very far from doing in our Europe, and we certainly also need to do more in terms of monitoring, testing and, of course, treating and preventing infectious diseases, as described in the document.
Fourthly, only a minute percentage of the 40 million individuals infected with the HIV virus currently has access to medication and medical aid.
Europe has a responsibility in respect of the rest of the world, and this Fund fleshes out this responsibility.
Mr Barroso, the President of the Commission, should free up this 100 million, not at the expense of education, child labour or care for women, but from the European Development Fund.
Last year there were nearly 40 million people on record living with AIDS, and the illness has truly reached every corner of the world.
I would remind you that in 2007, that is to say at present, 50% of the world's population live in cities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for a debate which has shed light on this serious, worldwide problem from a number of perspectives.
I should like to emphasise the fundamental idea that the only way to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic is with the kind of coordinated, holistic approach that is currently deployed in the fight against poverty, in other words, preventative mechanisms that incorporate cultural norms, education, common sense, screening and care for the sick, including appropriate treatment.
The EU is also providing significant resources to finance a range of projects in all countries and there have been some successes.
A further problem that was mentioned is the financing of the Fund against AIDS.
The Commission has responded to the fact that the Member States are not contributing anything in 2007 by restructuring the resources.
In spite of this I believe that if Member States have undertaken to make certain contributions, which would not be significant amounts in relation to their GDP, they should fulfil that commitment.
The overall amount of money is very significant, but in relation to GDP it is an amount that can be released in the context of national budgets.
