Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the days since we reached our understanding with the Council - which was made possible in part by the Commission's support - I have been wondering what might be an appropriate comparison for this long journey, which, for me, has lasted three and a half years, and which has brought us to this point.
To answer that question, I have had to resort to my passion for mountain climbing: perhaps the most fitting comparison is to say that we have climbed a high mountain - probably, and without any exaggeration, an 8 000-metre peak in the Himalayas.
We have done so with the package of chapters that we agreed upon in the final stage of the negotiations: duty of care; animal welfare and, above all, the compulsory promotion of alternatives to animal testing; the agency; communication of information; and adjustment to the new interinstitutional agreement on comitology, thus safeguarding Parliament's role.
The reason why I can say that we have reached the top is that, with this agreement, we have above all arrived at a successful solution to that most controversial topic, the purpose of REACH, which is to regulate the substances of highest concern by means of the authorisation procedure.
The Commission's original proposal in fact stated that all substances subject to authorisation could be authorised on the basis of the principle of adequate control.
If an alternative should appear during the term of the authorisation, the obligation to submit a substitution plan will come into effect.
What I mean by this metaphor is that we should adopt the compromise that we have reached, because in that way we can have the regulation published by the end of the year and thus meet the deadline for starting the process to implement REACH by 1 June 2007.
Even the voting list will be short - there is not a lot to do, just two pages, which is a record for REACH, considering that some 5 000 amendments were examined at first reading.
My work therefore finishes here, and it just remains for me to thank all those who, in their many different ways, have taken part in this Himalayan expedition.
Above all, however, I thank the staff who have worked with me: two Italian ladies - one of whom is my assistant, Sabina Magnano - who have played a very important role in this project.
If I could change the name of the report, I would name it after them and all those who have worked with me. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, Commissioners Verheugen and Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sacconi, the Regulation concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is one of the most significant legislative projects in the EU's history.
It will be a giant leap forward from the current control system for chemicals, which is roughly 40 years old.
The negotiating process has seen difficult phases.
I would like to thank all the presidencies that have prepared a basis in the Council for the decision that is now before us.
I would, in this connection, like to thank the European Parliament for their splendid levels of cooperation during the autumn negotiations.
The regulation will do much to improve the protection of human health and the environment.
The REACH system will improve our knowledge of the properties of substances, make the control of risks from chemicals more effective, and make it necessary to have an authorisation to use the most hazardous substances of all.
The new safety requirements will be the most stringent in the world.
There will be a significant increase in the transparency of the control of chemicals with the creation of up-to-date information systems and registers for the European Chemicals Agency, from which the public too will be able to obtain information on substances and their properties more easily.
The REACH Regulation will put this on a new level by making it possible to use alternative research methods and programmes on a broad basis.
Consumers too will be able to obtain more information on the hazardous substances contained in goods and articles.
The substitution plan should be submitted regardless of whether the authorisation is to be granted on the basis of appropriate risk management or socio-economic benefits.
I believe that this solution takes balanced and realistic account of the concerns voiced by the European Parliament about the most hazardous substances being substituted.
Regarding other amendments, I hope that the outcome of the talks will remain unchanged.
We have improved the information with which consumers are provided, while your House was, at the same time, aware of the need for consideration to be given to the concerns and interests of those on the other side, namely the hundreds and thousands of small and medium-sized businesses that will be obliged to apply REACH.
The belief that REACH would be a problem for large-scale industry in Europe was always a misconception, albeit one propagated by some environmental organisations.
It is for that reason that the changes made are extremely significant, not only as regards the verification requirements for substances produced in small quantities, but also the enhanced incentives for the shared use of data for the purposes of registration and the improved protection of intellectual property rights.
If we continue to work together on this in future, I am convinced that we will surely succeed in creating a model for the realisation of our European concept, combining a strong, high-performing and job-maintaining industrial base with high standards - the highest possible standards for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens.
With this agreement we will achieve better health and environmental protection as well as promotion of industrial innovation and competitiveness.
The Commission supports this set of compromise proposals that were agreed between the Council and Parliament on 30 November 2006.
I would like to thank the Presidency and Minister Mr Pekkarinen, and of course the European Parliament, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and its president Mr Florenz, and especially its rapporteur Mr Guido Sacconi, for their significant efforts and determination, because of which this proposal had a happy end.
It will affect all industry sectors, but also simple citizens in direct or indirect ways considering that chemical products are so widespread in everyday life.
Even though there will be some increase in cost, this expenditure and investment will be distributed over a long-term period, that is, 11 years in the event of registration or longer in the event of a loan.
With the new system, we expect to regain consumer confidence in chemical products and the chemical industry, and moreover REACH will boost competition and innovation, a fact that will both offset and cover the larger part of the initial expenses and investments.
The agreement between Parliament and the Council on this point is satisfactory.
If alternative products exist, replacement must be our first choice.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, REACH has been one of the most important, most extensive and also most complex pieces of legislation to have been discussed in this House in recent years.
Thanks to REACH legislation, the 30 000 chemical substances that are available within the European market are once again being mapped out; the relevant information will be verified and applications will, where necessary, be regulated.
Moreover, REACH replaces a set of very impenetrable legislation that has eventually made the European market unworkable.
The compromise is very precarious, because on the one hand it protects man, the environment and the consumer, and limits animal testing, while on the other, it also offers an opportunity for creating the best possible climate for European industry.
We can tell the Finnish minister that, whilst we are pioneers, we must ensure that our position also bears fruit.
We are talking about our desire to protect nature, and, above all, the health of those people who use chemicals, whether as consumers or as workers with them.
We in this House must do likewise.
Remember the fears about all the impact assessments and the wild figures about how much REACH was going to cost and the risk that this would lead to the European chemical industry disappearing from the shores of this continent and relocating in China.
I hope it will enable us to identify, control and replace chemicals that are detrimental to our health and environment.
I hope it will be implemented without excessive difficulty, particularly for SMEs, at a cost that will not threaten the competitiveness of our industry.
I hope it will not lead to a transfer of jobs but instead will increase consumers' confidence, here in Europe and across the world, in the chemicals our industry produces.
On the contrary, it is very much a step in the right direction and, if our hopes are realised, it may prove to be one of the most significant measures this Union has ever taken, of real long-term advantage both to our economy and our environment.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) Mr President, the original purpose of REACH was to protect people and the environment.
Again and again, we have emphasised the importance of transparency and openness and laughed at how absurd it is that the board that is to take important decisions about the future of chemicals should be secret and have secret financial interests.
We have thought it self-evident that companies should be responsible for their products and have also taken decisions that would give small companies fair conditions.
It was the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that played the chemical industry's game, but why did the others join in?
In politics, nothing is won unless risks are taken.
You should dare to take this last opportunity now, obtain a clear majority in Parliament and negotiate openly with the Council.
If our constituents saw us in this light they would be very impressed.
Under the current patchwork of legislation, without sufficient information on the majority of existing chemicals, we are unsure of the quantity of chemicals used and the effect on our health and our environment.
This agreement is groundbreaking in terms of regulation which will clearly benefit consumers and our environment through tighter safety controls.
We must be mindful, however, that the aim of this legislation is also to improve the competitiveness of the chemical industry, one that is very important in my own country and creates quite a number of jobs directly and indirectly.
Our big challenge now is to implement the REACH regulation in our respective countries to ensure that it gets proper representation for those who send us here.
It is good that the solution was found here in Parliament.
This REACH regime signifies revolutionary progress with regard to knowledge about approximately 30 000 substances used in trade and industry.
I think that honesty requires us to admit that we want this environmental progress but are imposing considerable costs on the business and industrial community in the process.
The fact is that, first of all, costs are being mentioned that could have been lower.
The Finnish Council Presidency rejected a relaxation of testing requirements for low tonnages.
Firstly, these tests are expensive, secondly, they are not very useful, and thirdly, they require enormous amounts of animal testing.
In recent weeks we have discussed in particular the authorisation procedure and the related substitution procedure.
According to the compromise now being discussed, all hazardous substances will be covered by the substitution procedure and the most hazardous chemicals must always be replaced if a substitute chemical is available and its use is financially and technically feasible.
I myself at least would sooner pick and eat an apple while it was ripe, and I would not wait for it to go rotten.
For my part, I am proud to have had a part in this work in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, when I took three themes as my starting point.
My point of departure was, then, that enhancement, clarification and simplification were good for European industry, European consumers and European citizens.
Firstly, I think that we could have taken the opportunity to have given consumers clearer information and, in that way, met increasing environmental and consumer demands.
It is important to clarify these matters.
My third question concerns duty of care.
I think it would have been helpful to have had duty of care not merely explained as a principle in the recitals, but incorporated into the legislative text.
Thanks to that lobbying and to compliant politicians, both from the Council and among members of the PPE-DE Group in particular, dangerous substances will remain on the market for many years to come, even when safer alternatives already exist.
It is a scandal that they will have waited 20 years in total for rules that will continue to allow hazardous chemicals to be used in everyday products, even when substitutes are readily available.
It is also completely unnecessary: the second reading in the Environment Committee gave the rapporteur a clear mandate to push for mandatory substitution for all chemical substances of high concern when safer alternatives exist.
There is nothing in this package that we could not have achieved through conciliation, and much that we could have won.
My group has put forward two alternative compromise packages.
It is based precisely on the bottom lines that a majority in Parliament have supported all through this process until the very last moment, but then chose to give up as a concession to the rest of the PPE.
The promotion of non-animal tests is now one of the objectives of the REACH regulation, and that is hugely important.
Animal tests are not only cruel, they are inefficient, they are outdated and they are frequently misleading.
Replacing them as fast as possible is not just an issue of animal rights: it is an issue of human health and of human rights as well. (SV) Mr President, my father worked for more than 20 years in the heavy chemicals industry in Sundsvall in northern Sweden.
According to a Finnish study, 32 million EU citizens are exposed every day to carcinogenic chemicals in their workplaces.
It is for all these workers that we need a strong REACH.
As has already been mentioned in quite a few very good speeches made earlier in this House, we also need a strong REACH for the environment and for all those of us who are consumers.
That, however, is precisely why I am so disappointed that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and also the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe have caved in to the chemicals industry and to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
This compromise contains no chemical safety report for low volume substances.
Above all, what should have been a gain in terms of public health and the environment now rings hollow, namely the substitution principle.
This principle, which states that dangerous chemicals must be replaced when there are less dangerous alternatives, is now so restricted that it is only a very small number of chemicals that will be phased out.
As a result, we shall still be surrounded by thousands of dangerous chemicals that are carcinogenic or toxic for reproduction or that have endocrine disruptive effects.
We are sceptical, too, about compromises that only postpone the elimination of smaller enterprises, thus depriving many people of jobs and the opportunity to better themselves. (DE) Mr President, rapporteur, Commissioners Verheugen and Dimas.
I believe that we have reached a decent compromise on this.
After all, things are not as simple as many of my fellow Members in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - whom I otherwise hold in high regard - may believe.
There are various camps in this world, and that is why the debates we have held on the White Paper over the last three years have always been controversial.
We have even seen some completely ridiculous proxy wars, and the atmosphere has not always been free of tension.
I should like to remind the two Commissioners that they have announced their intention to withdraw 40 old directives and regulations that have now been superseded.
An important factor all along has been our focus on producer responsibility.
The compromise package agreed by Parliament and the Council is a very good one.
In particular, REACH is also a blank cheque for endocrine disruptors - plasticisers, insecticides, flame retardants, all of which are among the most lethal chemical agents for human health - a blank cheque signed by our Parliament, whereas the Finnish Presidency was agreeable to making substitution mandatory here.
So our meeting with People's Europe this Wednesday 13 December will feel like a let-down, to put it mildly, and all those who, like me, are taking the risk of combining health and sustainable employment instead of continuing to treat them as incompatible in so sterile and obsolete a manner, now have only one or two minutes to express their disappointment. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the image of a mountain has been used many times today.
REACH will offer no incentives for replacing chemicals of particular concern with safer alternatives.
These substances will continue to circulate on the market, therefore, even where there are feasible alternatives; that is what is really shameful.
This compromise also makes a mockery of transparency.
The fact that members of the European Chemicals Agency can keep their names and financial interests secret is not only absurd but also signifies the disempowerment of consumers, who will continue to grope around in the dark.
There is only a very small number of chemicals about which consumers can find out information - and only after going through a lengthy individual process.
The agreement between the PPE-DE Group, the Socialists, the Liberals and the Finnish Presidency takes one more step in the direction of bypassing any opposition and competition, in favour of the prosperity of big business.
Therefore, it accommodates sector build-up in favour of the capitalists whose position as European Union type monopolies in the international market will be strengthened. (PL) Mr President, this decisive vote on the REACH regulation is taking place in December, when many parts of Europe are longing for snow and concern is being expressed about the current high temperatures.
It is worth noting that this debate is being held and this important regulation adopted in an enlarged Union including ten new countries. (SV) Mr President, the European Parliament could have chosen to follow a more environmentally friendly line and to have stood up to the Council in the negotiations on the Chemicals Directive.
It has caved in to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and to the short-term special interests of the chemicals industry.
The compromise favours the out-of-date part of the European chemicals industry, while Europeans and Europe's modern industry are among the losers.
However, he has led us gamely through 140 articles, 17 annexes and nine appendices of the REACH proposals, and he can feel justifiably exhilarated to be bringing us towards a new, coherent system to identify and manage the risk of chemicals.
We have come a long way and we have had high ambitions, although not all of them have been met.
But we have to strike a balance - a balance between strong environmental and health protection, phased but comprehensive gathering of data on all chemicals, legal certainty, protection of intellectual property for businesses and minimising the need for animal testing through data sharing and the promotion and validation of non-animal test methods.
At the heart of that compromise is substitution, and the authorisation procedures with their mandatory substitution plans will phase out chemicals of very high concern where safer, viable alternative substances and technologies exist.
The future is what the market will do with this.
I believe that the market will respond and lead the way as manufacturers, retailers and consumers push for safer alternatives.
Yes, I am dismayed, and what dismays me in particular is that the principle of substitution, where alternatives exist, has been weakened by the proposal for a substitution plan and a socio-economic report, both of which will delay the replacement of dangerous substances.
It is very disappointing that the chemical safety report will be mandatory only where production exceeds 10 tonnes, as this will not make for transparency on thousands of substances and will not allow risk management plans to be adopted.
I am also dismayed that part of European industry has not immediately wanted to rise to the challenge of innovation and improve its public image.
I say part of European industry because I know that some have already anticipated REACH.
Those that discover such alternative substances will therefore occupy a more favourable position on the market and the search for alternative substances will therefore become a challenge for them.
I believe Article 137 of the compromise, on review, is important.
Another thing that concerns me is how this legislation will be put into practice by SMEs.
For that reason, I would like the Member States, trade associations, and NGOs, too, to create a climate that will allow SMEs to meet the requirements of this legislation, thereby helping to achieve its objectives.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has tabled two different proposals on REACH.
One is that which the Greens are actually promoting; the other is the amendment that we had kept up our sleeve, which contains the improvements now adopted by the Council, but not the things that actually made it worse that were done on the last night of the negotiations at the request of the Conservatives and against the wishes of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
The content of the proposal tabled in my name has already been approved by the Council.
Today's compromise essentially means the Socialists have adopted the views of the European Right and of the chemical industry.
It is far behind the initial Commission proposal, but also far behind the things we voted for, both at first reading and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
Energy is being produced and consumed more efficiently, enabling us to protect the environment.
It follows that we should not support unduly severe or expensive regulations in our search for solutions that are good for people and for the environment.
Less innovation will result in us and our children being exposed to more dangerous substances in our daily lives.
More widely available authorisation, assessment of the social and economic factors as part of the authorisation procedure, and a more flexible procedure are the great advantages of the compromise reached on 30 November.
Hence the sudden, oh-so touching agreement on this pathetic regulation. (NL) Mr President, Commissioners, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, if we manage to approve the REACH compromise this week, this House will have proved for the second time during this term that it listens to the laments of the people and that it is capable of taking its responsibility in very extensive and complex technical matters and of helping bring those matters to a good end.
We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have always been reluctant to unilaterally back one or the other lobby.
Having weighed everything up, we will endorse the package, because we know that in 11 years' time, we will have drastically renewed chemical substances policy and will have made it transparent.
We must in any event set down to work by, inter alia, launching sound information campaigns directed at the consumers. (NL) Mr President, after nearly four years and thousands of amendments, REACH is finally a reality.
The result is something we can be proud of.
Replacement has become one of the REACH objectives.
The vast majority of people working in the chemical industry are doing everything they can to exercise utmost care when dealing with dangerous substances, but it does not, unfortunately, go without saying that everyone will do so.
Until such time, this is what we will have to work with, and I think an excellent compromise has been brokered. (FR) Mr President, with REACH, together we, including Mr Sacconi, our rapporteur, have raised tremendous hopes that our environment can be rid of the persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic chemical substances that are poisoning our health and the natural environment.
As a result, the massive amount of dialogue with civil society - trade unions, NGOs, undertakings and manufacturers - will have brought some agreement on the necessity of improving public health and the quality of the environment and of providing the public and workers with information on the chemical products that surround us.
A great responsibility rests on us today and we must vote accordingly.
Finally, I will say that this compromise may be a great step for the chemical industry, but it will remain a climb-down for our Parliament. (The speaker spoke Irish) The original intention of the REACH Directive was to give proper protection for workers, consumers and the environment, while maintaining the competitiveness of European industry.
It is deeply unfortunate that the chemical industry has succeeded in convincing so many MEPs that the highest standards of safety are not necessary.
That situation will change next year. (EL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the two Commissioners and Parliament for breaking an amazing record: with this report, I mean the draft law, they have managed to attract more lobbyists than any other time.
And it does not. (DE) Anyone who remembers the time when, on 13 February 2001, Commissioners Wallström and Liikanen presented the White Paper, will have an idea of how far we have now come.
I should like to express my particular thanks to the two Commissioners for increasing the focus on our jobs and the competitiveness of our economy under their responsibility and in their time.
Mr Sacconi has done a marvellous job but, to listen to the speeches in this House, one could be forgiven for thinking that the Communist Group and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance were in the majority.
To Commissioners Verheugen and Dimas, I would say that it is important that the implementation of this Regulation does not turn into a huge bureaucratic monster, but instead really sets an example of better lawmaking.
It is regrettable that this did not happen.
Coming from a new Member State, I am satisfied to see that my amendments have been built into the text.
The Hungarian-British initiative should also be mentioned here as a relative success for my compatriots.
It will be a good opportunity to involve the substances in the 1-10 tonne range in the chemical safety report in order to ensure the safe use of such substances, as I and other Socialist colleagues proposed earlier. (CS) Former Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin once said: 'We meant to do it better but it came out as always'.
Whatever he says, we are talking of the regulation of over 30 000 substances, policed by another army of self-important inspectors who already suck at the teat of the overtaxed and over-regulated taxpayer.
I certainly beg my British federalist colleagues, all of whom support this misguided legislation, for once to get up off their bellies and strike a blow for our own national civil law and against the sovietism of this place.
Rapid industrial development in the 20th century has meant, however, that our daily use of these substances has become not only a necessity but also a pleasure.
Many of these substances do not genuinely improve our quality of life, though, as they are hazardous and harmful to our health.
It is difficult to imagine life without chemical substances.
The REACH system should be based on the principle of prevention and precaution.
The need for the consumer to be assured that a particular product is not harmful must be central to the new legislation, and the responsibility for providing that assurance must rest with industry.
Any producer wishing to place a new product on the market or retain an existing concession must be able to prove that the products for which he or she is responsible are safe for human beings and the environment.
The compromise reached goes a long way towards responding to these expectations and therefore deserves our support.
The attempts to extend the patent period, initially to 15 years and eventually to 12, are detrimental to innovation as they strengthen the economic dominance of rich companies.
The longer the periods, the less the pressure on companies to seek new solutions and undertake new research.
I think I have caused him a few problems throughout the whole process by constantly asking for more: more substitution, more information, the registration of a larger number of chemicals and more sheets guaranteeing the safety of chemical products.
It is the best we can obtain, and it entails much better rules than the rules governing chemicals that exist in Sweden and the EU at present.
The fact that Germany will be donning the presidential mantle after the New Year and that the German Government, eagerly cheered on by the German chemicals industry, have been the great opponents of a strong REACH is one more reason for avoiding delay.
We Swedish Social Democrats will therefore be accepting our share of responsibility tomorrow and voting in favour of the compromise.
In seven years' time, when REACH is up and running, we shall, however, be able to come back and demand that it be further tightened up. (DA) Mr President, the chemicals reform has now been designed in terms of total harmonisation, which prohibits the Member States from introducing better protection of people's health and of the environment.
We now have a list of 150 unwanted substances in Denmark.
The compromise can only be defended if its rules are minimum ones.
After three and a half years, 700 pages of draft proposals and thousands of amendments, it was never going to be easy, with such a complex piece of legislation, to find the right balance between health and environmental objectives while maintaining the competitiveness of European industry.
Current chemicals regulation is very confusing and inefficient, covering 40 different directives that are more or less independent of each other.
Witness the saga of the zinc risk assessment that has taken 15 years, to date, and is still not complete.
REACH will rationalise this system and will register, evaluate and authorise chemicals that were never previously tested for their impact on human health.
This will be particularly challenging for companies that do not already have the expertise to deal with chemicals legislation, especially downstream users of chemicals and the thousands of SMEs that will need to live and survive, Commissioner Verheugen - but I would also add 'thrive' to that list - under REACH.
Like Mr Sacconi and many other Members of this House, I have always advocated strong worker protection and also strong environmental and consumer protection.
I would prefer a stricter compromise - incidentally, I made the same comment after the first reading and during the discussion at first reading.
It provides for substitution, which must take place, and in cases where there are no substitutes it provides for research plans, which is also very important.
In essence, this regulation calls for the same thing over time; innovation so that new, better and less dangerous or completely harmless substances can be created to serve man.
Over time we will see an essential improvement of public health and the environment. (PL) Mr President, one of the main provisions of the draft REACH regulation is the principle of substitution, which remains within the competence of industry.
This principle could unlock the significant potential for innovation of both the vital chemical industry and the end users of its products.
There is therefore a danger that some small and medium-sized enterprises that do currently have their own research establishments may close them down, and will therefore not be required to submit the aforementioned plans.
The carefully formulated principle of substitution is the most logical response to the use of hazardous substances.
The procedures contained in the regulation aimed at stimulating innovation in the search for new and safe substances are certainly needed. (DE) Mr President, the French philosopher Voltaire once said that all fanaticism is dangerous.
I believe that this debate is a good example of the truth of this statement.
The words of my fellow Members from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, of those from the Union for Europe of the Nations Group or even of the extreme left give me the impression that only losers could endorse a package such as this.
It must be made clear in this regard that REACH represents a step in the right direction for us all: greater environmental and consumer protection, but also greater competitiveness.
After all, in the final analysis, human beings, animals and even the environment are the big winners from this legislation.
The appeal goes out to us, too: let us create a strong Agency for all this, so that we have uniform rules rather than another patchwork of 25 or 27 different regimes.
We have considerable work to do, therefore, and hopes for a REACH-free year in 2007 are unlikely to be fulfilled. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us see how far we have come with the project before us today.
At first reading, I voted in favour of all the amendments to that end, but I noticed that we do not have the qualified majority.
What is in question is not the principle but its gradual, progressive implementation, - inadequate in my opinion - but the principle exists for all dangerous substances.
We wanted the OSOR principle to prevail and to support SMEs, and this too, we have achieved.
Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, the conclusion cannot be other than to support the compromise. (DA) Mr President, there are approximately 100 000 chemicals on the market.
All of us have been influenced in this business by many different interest groups.
In the past we had an open stable door, with the result that a variety of chemicals could, without further ado, be placed on the market and used as one saw fit.
This proposal bears the clear imprint of Parliament.
There has been a marked change in the world of chemicals and the faith in their safety since Seveso and Bhopal.
The fact that all the previous speakers welcome the compromise only with reservations is proof that it is relatively balanced.
The Agency must work quickly, accurately and without making mistakes so as to improve the reputation of REACH as a model for other states and associations of states.
In my opinion, the issue of intellectual property has been sufficiently regulated.
We shall consider in due course whether the present function of REACH is adequate, and whether the rules are too strict or too lax.
The path that led to this result has been far from easy, but in the end everything we desired has successfully been achieved, by which I mean not only instruments for authorisation and substitution, but also, to a certain extent, compulsory registration.
What is, perhaps, most important is that the substitution process will come to include all dangerous substances that are prohibited or have a limited validity permit, with the obligation to plan substitution or, if that is not possible, to develop alternatives.
I hope that the compromise package will be accepted at Wednesday's vote in the same form which was agreed upon during the preliminary work.
Certainly it contains more positive than negative points but I deplore the fact that no chemical safety report will be required for the 17 000 substances produced in amounts of one to ten tonnes.
In relation to CMRs, however, substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction, the process of proper control, which has been retained, is acceptable, apart from the fact that the agreement, which stipulates that the presentation of a research and development plan will be obligatory without at the same time extending the obligation to implementing any such plan, weakens the text.
We do not all have everything we would like; but as long as there are divergent views on how we can achieve a clean, healthy environment in Europe, on how we can control these things, we will have the democratic process to help us to find a solution.
I heartily recommend the Sacconi package and congratulate him and all associated with it. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, finally after a lengthy and extremely difficult procedure, we are facing a solution regarding the regulation on registering, evaluating and licensing of chemical substances.
The said regulation is a unique opportunity for all of us to achieve a high level of public health and environmental protection, both for us but also for future generations.
What we must note though, is that the primary goal is to activate as soon as possible the control system for dangerous substances, even if there are still issues that need redefinition in the future.
By adopting REACH, the existing legal framework on control of dangerous chemical substances will be strengthened in order to protect the health of European citizens, while at the same time it will boost competitiveness of European industry through innovation and research for the development of safer chemical substances.
REACH is a new, realistic proposal, which we all ought to support by continuing to work on improving it.
I am certain that such information, which costs a great deal of money, will provide fresh impetus for European research into developing useful substitutes and, where the regulation does not provide for substitutes, will safeguard the gradual, natural elimination of various harmful substances from products.
One serious shortcoming that I should once again like to highlight is the fact that the new system is solely European, and not global.
I therefore call on the Commission and the 27 Member States to ensure that European regulations match our ambitions on the world stage, because this is our political responsibility.
It has taken a very long time, eight years to be precise, and the fact that nobody is entirely happy with the outcome actually means that the REACH regulation can be adopted.
Environmentalists allege that the regulation was written to suit industry.
Firstly, if we cast a critical eye over the REACH regulation, we are bound to recognise that this is a single document replacing the 40 different regulations currently in place, and that it will enable us to effectively protect human life and health.
If we resolve to continue improving and amending it in the future, I believe we should adopt it. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the EU is often referred to as an incompetent, useless institution that, following enlargement, has become incapable of taking the important, effective joint decisions that are vital for Europe.
I firmly believe that today's debate and the vote on Wednesday on the REACH Directive will be evidence that the exact opposite is true.
With this legislation, Europe will be creating clear, transparent and fair rules for registering, assessing, authorising and, where necessary, restricting the use of chemicals.
This is because, through the REACH legislation, it is Europe that will in future determine the rules, standards and trends for the chemicals industry throughout the world.
As with all legislation, REACH represents a compromise, in this case between representatives of the chemicals industry, consumers, environmentalists and animal welfare groups.
It also represents a compromise between the representatives of large chemical firms and SMEs.
I shall therefore be voting in favour of the REACH Directive in Wednesday's vote. (HU) Fellow Members, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have helped and perfected his work with their questions and their support over the past years.
This in itself makes possible savings of 10 billion Ft for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises.
I believe this will be very important to all participants, since this will allow us to assess the results of REACH.
I can only give you an estimate, because only REACH will tell us the actual numbers, but the most reliable estimates say that roughly 2 500 substances will be subject to the authorisation procedure.
With the compromise, there should be less than 200 substances that can be authorised on the basis of adequate control - which is not a licence to kill, but involves a risk assessment.
In any case, because of the way in which we have restructured the compromise, even for these substances a substitution plan must necessarily be submitted where an alternative exists, or a research and development plan where there is no alternative.
Nobody, therefore, can deny the fact that all substances that are authorised will be included in a process that sooner or later will lead to their substitution.
Lastly, I should like to thank my friend Carl Schlyter for having returned the apple from a year ago.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for a very interesting and very open debate.
On the other hand, the debate showed that very many Members of Parliament are prepared to seek the best outcome possible in this situation through compromise.
It would seem that there is now a sufficient number who desire a compromise.
I am certain and convinced that the result of these compromises is that we in the European Union will have the most progressive legislation on chemicals in the world.
The practical work will start on the control of the 30 000 chemicals now on the European markets.
With these words, then, once and for all I want to thank the Members of Parliament, and the rapporteur especially, as well as the Chairman of the Committee and our partners more generally in Parliament and the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make just two brief comments.
REACH cannot reduce the level of protection in the chemicals industry.
At all events, therefore, REACH brings about a clear improvement in the safety of employees in the workplace.
I have already spoken to the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and offered to visit the committee in February and present a detailed report on the measures the Commission has either already taken or plans to take with regard to the implementation of REACH.
Last but not least, as Mrs Ek, Mrs Ferreira, and others have suggested, the obligation to provide a chemical safety report for the most dangerous substances in the lower production volumes would have been useful to further enhance worker protection.
Nevertheless, as Mrs Roth-Behrendt underlined, a compromise is a compromise and this compromise package is a marked improvement for the protection of health and the environment if we compare it to the current situation.
The Commission can fully support the compromise package and I sincerely hope that Parliament will support this package during the vote on Wednesday.
Throughout this process the Commission has done its best to facilitate agreement between the Council and Parliament and to find balanced compromises.
Once again, I am grateful to Mr Sacconi and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts to achieve this compromise.
The debate is closed.
