International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) (debate) The next item is a debate on the oral question by Miroslav Ouzký, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, to the Council: Key objectives for the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) to be held in The Hague on 3-15 June 2007 (B6-0020/2007) and the oral question by Miroslav Ouzký, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, to the Council: Key objectives for the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) to be held in The Hague on 3-15 June 2007 (B6-0121/2007).
Our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, whose chairman I excuse for not being able to be here with us, questions the Member States' negotiating method and asks the European Council what key objectives the Union will uphold during the fourteenth meeting of the Conference of the parties to the CITES Convention, which will be held, as you said, Madam President, in the Hague on 14 and 15 June 2007.
It was adopted in 1973, in Washington, by States that were already anxious to go beyond the national regulatory frameworks.
With the coming on board of the various institutional partners, nearly 170 States, including our 27 Member States, of scientists and NGOs, the CITES Convention will have made it possible to prevent the removal of particularly endangered species and to save species such as the Siberian tiger, the blue whale and African elephants.
It must review also the decisions that have had a negative impact on certain species: for example, during the twelfth Conference of the parties, the permits for the sale of ivory originating from Botswana, Namibia and South Africa resulted in almost 20 000 elephants being decimated, according to estimates.
Finally, a key issue for CITES COP 14 will of course be elephant ivory.
They should not have been smuggled from Libya to Rome along with 275 other rare tortoises, because they are in the highest protection category under the CITES Convention.
In my country, some 570 illegal wildlife items are seized every day by Her Majesty's Customs.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, there is a strong case for supporting the proposal for a 20-year moratorium on the ivory trade.
Furthermore, we also think it crucial that red coral, which is also overfished in the Mediterranean, be included in Annex II to the CITES.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the CITES Conference that is to be held in The Hague next month is of huge importance if we want to take measures against the international trade in endangered animal and plant species.
Three quarters of the 400 000 elephants in Africa live in this region, thus resulting in inevitable risks for the people and the environment, and being detrimental to biodiversity.
After all, we cannot afford to reject solutions without replacing them with alternatives. (DE) Madam President, Mrs Isler Béguin has, in fact, already presented the substance of this oral question, which has particularly to do with what the Council is aiming to achieve through the negotiations, but also with the methods of negotiation and the way in which this House's delegation is involved in the work on the ground.
Like many other Members, I would like to return to the subject of the trade in ivory, which the Convention has prohibited since 1989, while allowing since 1997 the sale of individual items of stock.
We hope that the Commission and the Member States will, in the course of the negotiations, give this demand their backing. (IT) Madam President, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Mr Gloser, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to summarise very quickly the sense of my amendment, which is backed by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
I have called for the deletion of the seventh indent of Article 10 in the proposal for a resolution on the CITES Convention.
