First and foremost, may I suggest that together, we welcome by acclamation all the former Presidents who are with us here today: Emilio Colombo, Lord Henry Plumb, Enrique Barón Crespo, Egon Klepsch, Klaus Hänsch, José Maria Gil Robles, Nicole Fontaine and Josep Borrell Fontelles.
Welcome to all of you, esteemed former Presidents of the European Parliament. (Sustained applause) May I also extend a very warm welcome to Janez Janša, the President-in-Office of the European Council, and José Manuel Durão Barroso, the President of the European Commission.
Of course, Mr Barroso, you are a familiar face here in the Chamber, but you are especially welcome today. (Applause) It is a particular pleasure to welcome Lluís Maria de Puig, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, here to the Chamber of the European Parliament.
Welcome to the European Parliament. (Applause) It is a pleasure to welcome the local and regional representatives: the Mayor of Strasbourg, Fabienne Keller, the President of the Regional Council of Alsace, Adrien Zeller, the President of the Conseil Général du Bas-Rhin, Philippe Richert, and the Prefect of the Region of Alsace and Bas-Rhin, Jean-Marc Rebière.
Welcome to the European Parliament. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, seat 146 is occupied by our colleague Astrid Lulling, who is the only one of us to have been a Member of the European Parliament in the days before it was directly elected. (Sustained applause) Almost exactly 50 years ago, on 19 March 1958, the Common Assembly of the three European institutions - the European Economic Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Coal and Steel Community - convened for the first time here in Strasbourg in what was then the 'Maison de l'Europe'.
Today, we are celebrating this anniversary because we are the direct successors to that Parliamentary Assembly, and its original 142 Members, in a line of continuity.
The first President of this Common Assembly was the great Robert Schuman.
This process began in 1958 and there have been milestones along the way, on our shared path towards European integration.
In 1979 the first direct elections to the European Parliament were held.
We represent more than 150 national political parties, most of which have joined together to form the seven parliamentary groups.
Three weeks ago we adopted the Treaty of Lisbon, which will further strengthen our powers.
I would also like to take a moment to remember Paul-Henri Spaak, the first President of the Common Assembly of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) - the institution that preceded the European Parliament - who, with his report after the Messina Conference in June 1955, made a major contribution to the preparation of the Treaty of Rome.
The Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights will make a decisive contribution towards making democracy and parliamentarianism in the European Union a reality at all levels.
When Robert Schuman took office as the first President of the European Parliamentary Assembly on 19 March 1958, this positive development of Europe's parliamentary dimension would have been almost impossible to predict.
However, Robert Schuman had a vision.
He spoke of the European idea which, he said, had to be revived, describing this as 'la relance de l'idee européenne'.
The European Union is a community of values.
Europe means respect for each other, respect for our diversity, respect for the dignity of all our Member States, large and small.
Respect for European law, which enables us to resolve our conflicts amicably and achieve a balance of interests in a peaceful way, must be continually renewed through the unwritten rules that govern our relations in Europe: consideration and respect for one another. (Applause) I would like to encourage and urge everyone - no matter where we stand on the political spectrum - to continue to show this respect for each other.
Our European legacy is preserved in the peace and unity of our nations, which have joined together to form the European Union.
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let us rejoice together in the freedom, peace and unity of our European continent, which we are privileged to serve. (Loud and sustained applause) President-in-Office. - (SL) 'My address cannot be devoid of emotion.' This is how the first President of the European Parliamentary Assembly, Robert Schuman, addressed this respected House for the first time on 19 March 1958.
Here I am addressing not only 142 national, but also 785 directly elected Members of the European Parliament.
Looking back at the road we have left behind and at the blossoming of European democracy over the last 50 years should make us proud and very grateful to the fathers of the European concept.
In 2008 we are faced with a completely different picture: the multipolar world is concerned not only with economic and political competition, but also increasingly with cooperation in search of solutions to the present challenges.
The life and work of the European Parliament since 1958 clearly reflects the progress achieved through integration over the last 50 years.
In the same way that the Treaty of Rome brought new responsibilities to Parliament in 1958, the Treaty of Lisbon, 50 years later, represents a big step forward for the European Parliament.
Where the first 50 years of the European Union were devoted to the European agenda, our political and economic development and reforms, the next 50 years will certainly be focused on the global agenda as well.
Only institutions that preserve the collective experience can mature.' With this thought Jean Monnet takes us one step closer to explaining why the vision of the European Union is still often different from reality and why many Europeans, despite the very evident successes of the last 50 years, still doubt the benefits of European integration.
Had we not joined forces 50 years ago, we would probably not be living in peace and prosperity today.
The same can be said about the next 50 years.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your contribution to the development of the European Union over the last 50 years.
I would now like to ask the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, to take the floor.
Fifty years ago Robert Schuman presided over a new single Assembly.
Since then, this fundamental political choice has been relentlessly reaffirmed at each stage of European integration.
I must tell you it is still extremely moving to see you all here in this house of European democracy, representatives directly elected by nations who until very recently had been divided by dictatorships that prevented Europe from drawing breath in freedom. (Applause) The institutional triangle the founding fathers bequeathed us is a model unique to the world that has certainly proved its vitality and solidness after 50 years.
They remain at the service of an ideal and objectives.
They are at the service of our citizens.
The stronger the institutions, the better they can serve this ideal and our citizens.
We will succeed if we maintain a constructive partnership between our institutions.
It will bolster the dual democratic legitimacy of the Commission through stronger links to the European Parliament and European Council.
Today the European Parliament, this house of European democracy, can proudly claim it has a fine history in its past, I am sure, but also in its future.
