&#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the Council statement on the lifting of the embargo on the sale of arms to China and Mr Romeva i Rueda’s report on the Council’s Fifth Annual Report according to Operative Provision 8 of the European Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
It was considered to be an essential element of undiminished national sovereignty in which interference by others was, to put it mildly, not welcome.
One of the priorities of our presidency is the conclusion of the first review of the EU Code of Conduct.
In its endeavours to enhance transparency, the Dutch presidency has also stressed the importance of increased dialogue with the European Parliament.
On 1 September the Committee on Foreign Affairs held a debate with the Dutch chairman of the COARM working group on the EU Code of Conduct and the current review.
The committee's rapporteur, Mr Romeva i Rueda, participated in a conference on the review of the Code on 30&#160;September in The Hague.
We have also invited Mr&#160;Romeva i Rueda to an informal meeting with the COARM working group on 3 December to discuss Parliament's report.
At this point I would like to make some more specific remarks on the draft report and on the motion for a resolution.
The European Parliament report refers to the Council's 2003 report.
Since then a lot has happened, most importantly the review of the Code of Conduct.
The European Parliament report welcomes the common position on arms brokering.
In the present review there is already consensus to extend the application of the Code to brokering activities.
The same is true for licensed production overseas, and transport and trans-shipment.
In September, Member States agreed on a more coherent approach concerning outreach.
The Romeva i Rueda report stresses the importance of increased transparency.
I agree and am therefore pleased that the Council's 2004 Annual Report will be more transparent than previous ones.
The transparency of the national reports is also of importance.
The Dutch presidency, together with SIPRI, recently organised a meeting with Member States on how to improve national reporting.
A recent US Government study shows that, in the case of the US, between 15 and 20% of authorised exports to so-called 'vulnerable' destinations do not end in the hands of the indicated end-user.
One such concern is the human rights situation in China.
We are also discussing measures supplementary to the Code of Conduct that should prevent an increase in the flow of arms and military technology from Europe to China should the embargo be lifted.
The aim of these measures is to increase transparency and intensify consultation among Member States.
As Parliament knows, the embargo was imposed by the European Council in 1989, following the events in Tiananmen Square, the early stages of which I was able to witness at first hand as the then vice-chairman of the Asia Development Bank.
This year, China has intensified its campaign to have the ban lifted.
Whilst we have acknowledged that positive change has occurred and that the political situation in China has moved on since Tiananmen, China's observance of some basic human rights, notably in the area of political and civil rights, continues to fall well short of international norms.
Human rights were an issue that figured prominently in the resolution passed by this House last year against lifting the ban.
Those Member States arguing for lifting the ban use the rationale that the controls introduced in the 1998 EU Code of Conduct on arms sales render it nugatory.
Responsibility for the arms trade currently rests with Member States, but the Commission is fully associated with its consideration under the common foreign and security policy.
It challenges Member States to attain more stringent standards on the control of arms exports.
Recognising the European Union’s potential to promote best practice around the world, it advocates, among other things, an international arms trade treaty.
We should not forget – and I am sure Parliament has not – the sobering fact that around half a million people die each year as a result of violence linked to small arms and light weapons.
As you are well aware, the Commission is regularly involved, with other international organisations and NGOs, in dealing with the consequences of inappropriate or illegal arms sales.
That is why the Commission has, as part of wider EU efforts, strongly supported the adoption of an international Code of Conduct on arms exports based on the European Union’s initiative.
We all know the importance of China as an economic partner and a political player in the world in the coming decades.
The historic recovery we are witnessing is, on the whole, extraordinarily beneficial to the rest of the world.
It is impossible these days for any country to remain completely self-contained.
I hope China will continue to play a positive role in the international community.
We in this Parliament frequently condemn violations of human rights in different parts of the world and we frequently adopt resolutions to that effect.
Meanwhile, our governments are still authorising arms exports, which not only makes these people’s situation even worse, but also leads the buyers to spend huge sums of money for military purposes, when the social and development priorities of their countries require that it be spent elsewhere.
In 2000 in New York, 189 countries signed the Millennium Declaration committing themselves, between 2015 and 2050, to putting an end to poverty, guaranteeing universal access to essential medicines and equal opportunities for men and women, as well as ensuring universal literacy and primary schooling, amongst many other things.
In order to achieve these objectives, the governments must dedicate at least USD 60&#160;000 million per year to the application of that Millennium Agenda.
The European Parliament has always been the most pioneering of the European institutions in terms of demanding that European arms exports be governed by a strict code of conduct and at the same time that these exports be consistent with the European Union’s constant messages in favour of preventing armed conflict and promoting peace and development.
Finally, since this debate is taking place at a time when certain European governments are suggesting that we need to lift the arms embargo on China, we should take this opportunity to once again reiterate that it would be a mistake to do this.
Against this backdrop, to take just one example, between 1995 and 2001 in Sub-Saharan Africa, military spending rose by 47% and life expectancy fell by four years.
Yes, the European Union’s Code of Conduct on arms exports has existed since 1998.
Yes, EU countries have made progress.
I should like to give particular mention to the complete harmonisation of the policy on Member States’ arms exports in the medium term, helping arms manufacturers to change direction and diversify into other products in order to prevent social crises and the loss of skills, the creation of a European agency for the control of arms exports and, most importantly, the creation of a tax on arms exports that will benefit the victims of conflict and the fight against poverty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to say how happy I am that we still have the chance to see Commissioner Patten in the plenary.
My group takes the view that this strategic partnership with China is what will take us into the future, and that we must seek to bring it about.
Whilst the proliferation of nuclear arms calls to mind apocalyptic scenarios, the fanning of the flames of conflict by the trade in conventional arms does incalculable harm to the development of many communities, and leads to death and to the violation of the human rights of millions of civilians throughout the world.
In recent years, we have seen efforts by EU Member States to improve controls on exports of conventional arms originating in, or passing through, Europe.
The sale of arms to governments or groups in conflict zones must be subject to tighter control, in light of information obtained by the control mechanisms set up by the United Nations Security Council to enforce arms embargos.
One resolution on the suitability of the arms embargo as a means of bringing about significant change cannot lead to a lifting of the arms embargo, at least for as long as there is no binding Code of Conduct on the export of arms and instruments that may be used for internal repression and torture.
Poland, which at the time was experiencing difficulties, was once persuaded by one of the most important countries in the world to stop sending arms to a South-East Asian country.
The country in question promptly took advantage of the opening left by Poland, and made a clear profit in doing so.
I am in favour of lifting sanctions against China, as they are ineffective and reduce the EU’s opportunities for economic development. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President – I was about to say Minister – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has to react to a situation where half a million people die each year from violence related to light weapons, both in armed conflicts and in connection with criminal activity.
This debate is part of our reaction.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted amendments I tabled to this effect.
It is also true that a little progress has been made in improving respect for human rights, and that China remains a protagonist in the fight against terrorism and is exerting useful pressure on North Korea to stop developing nuclear weapons.
Taiwan is a model of democracy from which China is still very far removed.
We must try at least to discuss – I do not mean harmonise – our position with that of the United States and those European countries that are currently opposed to removing the embargo.
I consider it essential that our approach to this issue should be as unified and as concerted as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the supply of weapons from EU Member States to third countries needs to comply with a common, clear, and binding framework that must be capable of being tested.
It is quite simply a pity, as Mr Nicolaï said, that a number of countries are still resolutely standing in the way of a binding framework of this kind.
The treatment of dissidents, of ethnic and religious minorities, and the large-scale imposition of the death penalty are, to put it simply, very worrying.
We must help China to play its part as a global actor effectively and fairly, for that is in the interests of the international legal system. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, it is always good to see you again.
The arms embargo against China was the EU’s response to the events in Tiananmen Square in June 1989.
The country leads the world in terms of executions; human rights are infringed every day; freedom of expression is severely restricted, and all opposition is in principle banned.
It is our credibility that is at stake, and that is more important than the French mirage aircraft, the Swedish JAS&#160;Gripen or German submarines.
The result of that is suffering to an unacceptable degree, an unacceptable number of people suffering oppression, and an unacceptable number of people killed.
Hence, therefore, our House’s justifiable demand for a stricter formulation; hence also the justifiable demand for this Code to be made binding in law; hence also the need for more monitoring, including of end-users.
Stand firm, Mr Nicolaï, and do not lift the embargo, neither at the EU-China summit on 8 December nor at the European Council on 17 December.
We are all right behind you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, even to consider lifting the arms embargo on China is in fact an outrage that cries out to Heaven.
Over 600 rockets are trained on Taiwan, and it is disgraceful that we are even contemplating supplying new weaponry to a country that is threatening a democracy in such a fashion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Nicolaï, Commissioner Patten, while the Council’s representative has been very frank in laying bare the ongoing disputes between two groups within it, I think the important thing for us has to be proper consideration, at the Summit, of the fundamentals of our relationship with China.
I agree with the previous speakers that we cannot lift the arms embargo while prominent representatives of the government in Beijing are threatening Taiwan with the use of armed force, as they did yesterday.
Commissioner Patten has always shown us the right way to go.
I think we are all agreed on that, and, at the Summit, the Council should do some straight talking to that effect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like first of all to welcome the progress made with regard to the Code of Conduct on Arms Exports, but it is still a sad fact that 500&#160;000 people die each year as a result of the use of small arms and light weapons.
Nevertheless, it is important that we maintain pressure on the Chinese Government to improve the political and human rights situation in China.
It is therefore necessary to maintain the embargo and indeed to tie it in with making our own Code of Conduct on Arms Exports legally binding. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am anxious to contribute to this debate to emphasise two main points.
Secondly and more importantly, effective control of arms exports is an essential part of a coherent policy that meets EU objectives on peace, respect for human rights and democracy.
As many speakers have said, conventional arms kill more that half a million people a year, that is one person every minute.
It is essential therefore that the EU have a strict arms code policy that equates with EU values if we are to offer global leadership on this issue.
The EU must also continue to promote an international code of conduct.
The export of small arms in particular to third countries which do not uphold values of democracy and human rights creates greater instability, not just in the regions to which the arms are exported, but for the world as a whole.
Continuing the Code of Conduct on Arms Exports on a voluntary basis in the future does not go far enough.
I support the recommendation that the voluntary code becomes a legally binding one.
This would be a bold step but one that can allow the European Union to increase its control, in a more realistic way, over the export of arms from European Union countries.
It is my view that if the industry in Europe abides by a binding code of conduct and the only arms being traded are legitimate and consistent with that code, it is then inappropriate to burden the industry with an extra tax.
While I welcome and support the dialogue and the development of a positive relationship between the European Union and China, removal of the arms embargo in the immediate term is still premature. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the Council's proposal to lift the arms embargo on China.
In any case, a legally binding ban would merely present another opportunity for certain states to exercise their hypocrisy, as we have seen, for example, with the efforts by some to evade the European Union's targeted sanctions against regimes in Zimbabwe and Burma or, indeed, the efforts by certain states to circumvent UN sanctions against the regime of Saddam Hussein in Iraq.
You can be sure that any new EU law would be gold-plated and rigorously enforced in Britain but ignored in other countries.
We spend a lot of time policing ourselves in Europe, but the main problems are countries which are not bound by any scruples or international rules. &#160;&#160; Mr President, every year arms kill hundreds of thousands of people and cause immeasurable human suffering.
On current trends, by 2020 the number of deaths and injuries from war and violence will overtake the number of deaths caused by diseases such as malaria and measles.
For example, the helicopters used against civilians and insurgents by the security forces in Nepal contain EU components.
Finally, I should like to endorse the view expressed in this debate that there are many hurdles to be overcome before the embargo against China can be lifted.
However, everyone knows that I am here not as a representative of the Dutch Government, but of the Council presidency.
Nevertheless, the Dutch Government is facing a very critical Dutch Parliament, which is almost unanimously of the same opinion as this Parliament.
Mr Van Orden, on the other hand, mentioned the issue of judicial consequences and the possible increase of the role of judges, which is also under discussion in the Council.
I understand the arguments but you must be aware that positions are divided in the Council.
The content of the Code and how we implement it is of greater importance than its status, which would probably have no effect on the arms export policy of the individual Member States.
That is one of the reasons that the presidency organised a seminar to help these countries in that respect.
We are in regular contact with these countries, aiming to maximise cooperation in this field, thus making export policy more efficient.
In another question, Mr Henin asked about post-shipment controls.
On the basis of this briefing, Member States will have to decide how best to move forward this important issue both nationally and jointly.
There were also questions from Mr Romeva i Rueda and Mrs Gomes about the trade regulation on torture equipment.
This draft regulation is at present being discussed in Council.
Mrs Gomes also asked about taxation of the arms trade.
We are aware of the various suggestions made in that regard, including those by Member States of the European Union.
It is indeed a first review and we should continue our efforts.
The people of Taiwan are still suffering the political oppression and economic isolation imposed on them by the People’s Republic of China, which has recently threatened Taiwan once again with military action.
The conditions are not in place for lifting the embargo on the trade in arms.
Let us promote political action rather than military action. &#160;&#160; The next item is Council and Commission statements on the ALTHEA mission in Bosnia Herzegovina.
I give the floor again to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Nicolaï. &#160;&#160; .
The EU's first military crisis management operation, Operation ALTHEA, will start on 2 December.
The operation's HQ has been established in Mons.
Third countries like Morocco, Bulgaria, Romania, Norway and Turkey will participate as well.
As members of the committee of contributors, these countries will have the same rights and obligations as the EU Member States taking part in the operation in terms of its day-to-day management.
No effort has been spared in ensuring a smooth transition from NATO to the EU and that includes the delineation of tasks between ALTHEA and the remaining NATO headquarters in Sarajevo, arrangements on the availability and use of reserve forces and on the sharing of intelligence.
This can be used for both NATO and Operation ALTHEA.
With ALTHEA, we are contributing to the security and stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is important to the reforms in that country.
At the same time, operation ALTHEA is – dare I say – the final element in a comprehensive European Union policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The combined activities in the political, economic development and security fields mutually reinforce each other.
The situation in the country has a direct impact on the region and on the EU.
The right political will and popular support by the Bosnians, combined with our comprehensive role, could and should lead Bosnia away from conflict into a stable and peaceful future, a future in which our special representative Lord Ashdown will play an ever more important role.
Stability and security are increasing and, with its integration into Euro-Atlantic structures, the country is moving more and more from the area of Dayton to the area of Brussels.
However, much remains to be done, because we are still concerned about the lack of cooperation with ICTY, particularly in the case of the Republika Srpska.
ICTY cooperation is an important criterion for closer relations with the EU and NATO.
The launching of the ALTHEA mission is an important event: important because it will be the first significant military operation undertaken under the European Security and Defence Policy.
The transfer from NATO has required long and detailed discussions because it was crucial to get things right from the very start.
My colleagues Mr Solana and Mr de Hoop Scheffer deserve a great deal of credit for securing a successful outcome.
I know some will be concerned that a brand new military mission in Bosnia sends a signal that the country continues to suffer from significant instability.
Bosnia, like all the countries of the Western Balkans, has a clear European perspective as a potential candidate country.
Last November the Commission published a feasibility study setting out 16 points on which the country needed to make significant progress before a recommendation could be made to the European Council to start negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement.
Bosnia Herzegovina is a member of the United Nations and a signatory to Dayton.
It is indeed a disgraceful matter that not one indictee has been transferred by the Republika Srpska to The Hague, although there are reports today that some war crime suspects have been arrested by Republika Srpska for trial locally.
This is welcome news, but Republika Srpska will be judged by the international community on its cooperation with the Tribunal on cases which fall under its jurisdiction.
If that is indeed the case, Lord Ashdown will have to consider his response.
It will also be very important to see how cooperation with NATO works in the aftermath of the ‘Berlin Plus’ negotiations, and particularly – in what is a speciality of the European Union and its security strategy – how well the civilian and military sides of this crisis management operation work together.
Despite his sombre view of the stabilisation and association agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do think that it is essentially a good thing that the European Union, after all these years, has achieved its ambition of mounting a major operation, and, remarkably enough, doing so in the former Yugoslavia.
So it augurs well that the European Union should, at the end of this year, be replacing NATO as the stabilising power in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
With an initial 7&#160;000 troops, the operation is manifestly bigger than the European Union’s previous operations, such as Concordia in Macedonia and Artemis in the Congo.
In operational terms, the mission is a continuation of SFOR.
ALTHEA has the same solid mandate, which, as we see it, is the best possible guarantee of our soldiers’ safety.
Everyone I spoke to on my recent visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina welcomed greater involvement by the European Union.
The ultimate objective must be that Bosnia-Herzegovina becomes capable of standing on its own feet as a complete and integral state – and that, I believe, must be the European Union’s ambition.
No date has as yet been given for the EU’s mission to end, but it cannot be the intention that a military force should simply remain in place until such time as Bosnia is ready to join the European Union.
The forthcoming operation will do much to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to the European Union and will strengthen the Union’s role in the Western Balkans.
The proposal before us is an excellent one, and Mr&#160;Wiersma has done a magnificent job.
It is important that action is taken in Bosnia and Herzegovina to combat organised crime and trafficking in women.
This will increase confidence of all groups in the region and their commitment to maintaining order.
This will be the first major EU-led military operation and we need to monitor its progress very closely.
The EU must ensure that ALTHEA troops respect human rights in all their aspects.
This House is committed, for we have all been committed for years.
What brings me to this conclusion is the letter of 9 November from the Dutch Presidency to the parliament of the Netherlands.
The people are mindful of the need for a military presence on their territory in this delicate phase of stabilising their country, and are therefore ready to welcome them warmly.
Parliament, through its delegation led by its indefatigable chairman, Mrs Pack, closely follows events in Bosnia, as shown, among other things, by the recent visit to that country.
This visit brought home to members of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Parliament the principles and routes through which they could have a closer relationship with the European Union.
The desire for normalisation is palpable in many areas of the country and the wish to forget the past and to think of the future is shared by all its inhabitants.
Of the sixteen points set out in the feasibility study, many have already been translated into law.
It is fitting and heartening to note this, but there is still much to do.
The military peacekeeping mission under the aegis of the Union from 2 December is there for this purpose. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too would like to take this opportunity to bid you farewell and thank you most warmly for your cooperation over all these years.
You have dedicated yourself in particular to the Western Balkans, where I would have preferred there to have been no need, ten years on from the wars in the Balkans, for the EU to mount further military backup operations.
ALTHEA, though, is more than these; it is a test case for the EU’s visible role in Bosnia and Herzegovina, now that it is, for the first time, taking over duties from NATO.
The mission is part of a coordinated and coherent approach including also the Stabilisation and Association Process, which will, I hope, make further progress in view of the disconcerting fact that 16 points are still outstanding.
Although Bosnia and Herzegovina needs the European perspective, which ALTHEA is meant to help secure for them, what is essential is that there should be a clear line of command avoiding needless duplication between NATO and ALTHEA and making it as clear as possible who is giving orders to whom.
All these things considered, I welcome the report and assure you that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the switch to an EU military operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Lord Ashdown will have an important role in ensuring that the ALTHEA EUFOR mission does not practice arbitrary arrests or ill-treatment of detainees.
I would also, however, urge this House to include support of this kind in the Financial Perspective, as well as making provision for economic development and expenses. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just a few comments to make on the central issue.
The first is that, as Chairman of the Delegation for relations with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia and Montenegro (including Kosovo), I am delighted that the military mission – which is still necessary – is now in European hands and backing up the EU’s great financial and civilian commitment under the leadership of Commissioner Patten.
The success of our mission – political, economic and military – is the litmus test for our foreign and security policy.
Apprehending war criminals such as Mladic and Karadzic should also still be a matter for the remaining NATO contingent, and, in particular, for the Serbs of Republika Srpska.
Even though neither has so far demonstrated any enthusiasm for doing this, and Republika Srpska has even obstructed it, EUFOR should have other tasks to perform.
Most of the Members who spoke agreed on the fact that the step we want to take in Bosnia and Herzegovina is an important step for the security and defence policy of the European Union.
Mr von Wogau, Mr Wiersma and others were very clear on that.
I agree with Mrs Poli Bortone and others that progress has been made but a lot remains to be done.
In addition to the ICTY cooperation I have already mentioned and the internal reforms, I hope indeed Bosnia and Herzegovina will also become more active in regional cooperation.
Croatia has made considerable progress and could be an example in a number of fields – except perhaps with regard to ICTY, as we will hear from the Chief Prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, on 23 November.
On behalf of the presidency I would very much like to thank Commissioner Patten for the important role he played in the Balkans.
Nevertheless we will miss Commissioner Patten. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, not only did I make a speech, I also asked two questions.
Secondly, I asked you whether you are considering phasing out the name ALTHEA, which is a terrible word and has caused problems in the region.
Secondly, I asked whether the Bosnia and Herzegovina Human Rights Ombudsman would have jurisdiction over EUFOR activities with a view to avoiding the kind of criticisms levelled at SFOR regarding arbitrary arrests and the ill treatment of detainees.
There is a connection between the two and I will make that clear in my remarks.
If the House remembers, it was a Commission Task Force for Kosovo, established just after the end of the conflict in July 1999, that laid the basis for the establishment of the Agency in February 2000.
Since then its key positions have been held by detached Commission officials with long experience in managing our assistance.
The Agency's record of success is the basis for the Commission's proposal to maintain it in its present format until the end of 2006, when the current assistance programme for the Western Balkans – the CARDS programme – also expires.
We have, however, given a great deal of attention to the amendments tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in particular to the suggestion to submit a Commission report on the future of the Agency by June 2005.
We therefore feel it realistic to set the end of 2005 rather than the middle of 2005 as a deadline.
Also, as the committee has requested, and in order not to leave any doubt about the future of the Agency, we will ensure that any proposal to extend the Agency beyond 2006 should be made by the Commission by 31 March 2006 at the latest.
For formal reasons, we have not deemed it appropriate to accept as a legal requirement an obligation to report on the division of tasks between our delegations and the operational centres of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
The existence in the same country of both the Agency and the delegations calls for close cooperation on the ground to ensure that our assistance effort is not dissipated in any way.
As the House is aware, the Council invited the Commission, after the failure of the referendum on the reunification of Cyprus in April 2004 – and I would like to wholly associate myself with everything that my colleague, Commissioner Verheugen, said about that – to bring forward comprehensive proposals to put an end to the isolation of the Turkish Cypriot community.
The proposal for a Council regulation establishing a legal instrument for encouraging the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community creates a specific financial instrument for an amount of EUR 259 million, to be implemented from 2004 to 2009.
The Commission welcomes Parliament's support for the financial instrument as expressed in the Rothe report on the proposal.
I would, however, also like to take this opportunity to underline that in our judgement it is regrettable that the Council has not yet been able to agree, after nearly four months of discussion, on the text of the financial instrument.
In that light, as the Commissioner has just said, with a view to the economic integration of the island and improved contact between the communities, in July 2004 the Commission submitted a draft regulation establishing a financial instrument in which the opinion of the European Parliament is requested.
In line with the mandate given by the Council on 26 April, the Dutch presidency committed itself to putting the proposals forward and made considerable efforts to that end.
There are still substantial problems with this draft regulation and the Council and the Commission are working very hard to resolve the issue.
The aim of the Dutch presidency is to provide real and effective economic opportunities for the Turkish Cypriot community, by promoting trade with the EU whilst respecting fully the sovereign rights of the Republic of Cyprus.
Members will recall that Parliament in its previous resolution on the European Agency for Reconstruction had asked the Commission to present its evaluation report on the status of the Agency by June 2003 at the latest, in order to allow the EP to hold a debate on the future of the Agency and its adequacy in managing EU external assistance in some Stability Pact and stabilisation and association countries.
My concerns were directed at the lack of clarity and coordination in the division of tasks between the European Agency for Reconstruction's offices and the Commission's deconcentrated delegations, a matter which I have addressed in my report.
I would be happy to incorporate a proposal fusing the ideas of two fellow Members by asking the Commission to submit by June 2005 a report on the future of the Agency after 31 December 2006.
The Community aid provided for in this regulation can and should help to achieve greater compliance with the , in order to prepare for the takeover which will be necessary after a solution to the Cyprus issue has been found, and indeed one of the primary aims of this financial support instrument is to promote such a solution.
Although Parliament has no official right of consultation with regard to the direct trade which has also been proposed, I believe that this House will make it clearly known to the Council tomorrow that a prompt decision is expected on the trade proposal, just as we expect a prompt decision on the financial support element.
In my opinion, it is crucial that the EU should send out a clear signal to the Turkish Cypriot community by implementing this proposal for a regulation and the proposed direct trade.
This signal would be directed in particular at the large majority which voted for the Annan plan and for a ‘yes’ to the European Union, and it would make it clear that, although we want a swift solution to the Cyprus issue, we are also, even today, taking the concerns of Turkish Cypriot civil society very seriously.
As in the previous cases, however, it is also important with regard to Northern Cyprus that the Commission present a report on the future of the Agency after 31&#160;December 2006 to the European Parliament and the Council by June 2005.
The report should of course also cover the implementation of the 2005-2006 multi-annual CARDS programme for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, something which is not yet the case.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore endorses the proposal to extend the Council Regulation on the European Agency for Reconstruction. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, first I should like to thank the two rapporteurs, Mr Samuelsen and Mrs Rothe, for the very responsible job which they have done in their reports.
This strategy is the only reliable proposal for the peaceful reconstruction of the Balkans and the strengthening of their European prospects.
We are financing dialogue and this is where the European Commission and the Agency for Reconstruction need to be particularly careful and act in cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus and with respect for the principles of European law.
Finally, I would like to ask the Presidency to take a stand on the question of the heading for financial support to the Turkish Cypriot community.
Mr Nicolaï needs to take a clear stand on behalf of the Dutch presidency on whether financial support will come under heading 7 or heading 3. &#160;&#160; .
I wish the Balkans a sound successor and, above all, wish the Commissioner much enjoyment in governing Oxford University and in penning fine books. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the financial segregation and distress of our Turkish Cypriot compatriots was never the objective of the Progressive Party of the Working People of Cyprus and the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
The same happened in the recent opinion of the Council's legal department, which expressly recognises the right of the Republic of Cyprus to keep the said ports and airports closed.
We hope that understanding and broad agreement have been reached on these matters.
As regards the report on the European Agency for Reconstruction being debated, the Progressive Party of the Working People of Cyprus wonders why it has been tabled for voting before us today, at a time when there is no agreement at COREPER level, by the Commission or the Council.
First, on a point of order, I am not sure if Mr Patten is entitled to even be in the House, given that Commissioner Prodi's brief expired on 31 October.
The occupying army needs to leave, calm needs to be restored to the island, the 1960 Constitution needs to be applied and economic prosperity will follow in northern Cyprus automatically.
If you have the courage to kick out the occupying army – which is the only occupying army in a European country – development will automatically follow. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we also wish to express confidence in the Reconstruction Agency’s being able to help improve the economic and social situation in the Turkish-occupied zone in northern Cyprus.
What must not happen is for the EU now to go in and provide aid as a thank you to those who voted in favour of the Koffi Annan plan and to forget those who voted against the plan.
It is the Greek&#160;Cypriot population that have been the losers since 1974.
It is they who have been victims and they must not be punished through the efforts that we in the EU now put in to normalising the situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was somewhat surprised to hear Commissioner Patten say that the Annan plan remains a sound basis for a possible reunification of Cyprus.
We should not overlook the fact that in April of this year, a referendum was held about this plan, and that a large majority of the Greek Cypriots voted it out.
Pledging EUR 259 million to the northern part of Cyprus is tantamount to recognition of the military occupation of that area by more than 35 000 Turkish soldiers.
It is a fact that the report, as formulated following the discussions and vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is a very good report and, as such, the decision which derives from the report on financial support for the development of the Turkish Cypriot community is also a very good decision, a decision which we all support.
The ultimate aim must be the reunification of Cyprus. &#160;&#160; Mr President, until 1974 the city of Famagusta was the centre of economic, social and cultural prosperity for both Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
Amendment 11 aims to help bring this dead city back to life for the benefit of the many thousands of local inhabitants.
The resurrection of the city of Famagusta will also act as a catalyst for the establishment of better and closer relations between the two communities in Cyprus, thus greatly increasing the chances of a speedy, peaceful reunification settlement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to start by echoing previous speakers in extending particular thanks to the two rapporteurs, Mrs&#160;Rothe and Mr&#160;Samuelsen, as well as to Mr&#160;Patten and Mr&#160;Nicolaï, for their speeches today.
I am delighted that the Greek Prime Minister, Mr&#160;Karamanlis, has recently expressed his firm support for Kofi Annan’s Cyprus plan.
I have therefore decided that the role I will play in this debate will be that of a representative of the people in the Greek part of Cyprus who voted for Kofi Annan’s plan.
I hope that we will take this opportunity to do everything in our power to bring about reunification. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it may just be acceptable to regard financial aid to northern Cyprus as a charitable donation.
That is why it was crucial for the Annan plan to be approved, by hook or by crook, and the Greek Cypriots were intimidated from all quarters in order to accept this half-hearted proposal.
Indeed, the Annan plan authorised the Turkish invasion of 1974, as well as the attendant war crimes.
The Turkish Cypriots would continue to live under Turkish occupation.
I also welcome the fact that the Council appears ready to reach a consensus on the regulation.
I stress the importance of consensus on the issue of trade, without time constraints and on a correct legal basis, as advised by the legal department of the Council.
I have perceived during this debate that certain colleagues, in their efforts to help the Turkish Cypriot community, underestimate the importance of the message that the Greek Cypriots are also in favour of economic development for Turkish Cypriots.
The messages coming from this debate build bridges between the two communities and do not create unnecessary disputes and confrontation between them, and due attention should be paid to them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we Greek Cypriots are in favour of financial support and assistance for Turkish Cypriots.
They are our compatriots.
However, I should point out that the economic destitution of our compatriots is not due to isolation on our part; it is due to the isolation imposed by 30 years of Turkish military occupation in Cyprus.
That is our objective.
The Turkish occupation, the eviction of Greek Cypriots from their homes and this ongoing situation.
That is why the report by Commissioner Patten is an insult to my intelligence, when it appears that he does not understand where this support will come from; from heading 3, which relates to countries in the European Union, or from heading 7, which relates to candidate countries.
I hope that when these debates are held in future without my attendance they will, if I may say so, have as broad a base as possible in the points of view we hear.
I should like to say to Mr Samuelsen that the Commission would be perfectly content to hold a debate on the Western Balkans in December.
I have no doubt at all about the honourable Member's commitment to that and I hope that we see everybody living a more prosperous, stable and peaceful life on that glorious island in the future. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The first is the implementation and entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol.
Member States and the Commission are currently preparing the European emissions trading system, which is due to be launched on 1 January 2005.
In December this year, the Tenth Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is due to take place in Buenos Aires.
The Kyoto Protocol is the main instrument in the global fight against climate change and a good example of the effectiveness of global cooperation.
The entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol shows that the EU was right in its early implementation of the obligations then expected.
In spring 2005, the European Council will adopt a position on the EU's future climate policy.
In preparation for that meeting, the European Commission is currently producing a cost-benefit analysis taking account of both environmental factors and competitiveness.
I believe that will only be achieved through a dialogue between the European Union and other countries.
The European Union presidency, in the framework of the troika, is currently implementing action with key countries all over the world regarding the forthcoming Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and early discussions on options for a regime for the period beyond 2012.
The second objective is to explain what the European Union is doing through our European Climate Change Programme as well as the emissions trading scheme that will start from January 2005.
The third objective will be to begin looking to the future, at the global regime that we will have after 2012, and to have an exchange of views on the post-2012 framework.
Again, this is extremely important in order to involve the developing countries and to show that there is a balance in the kind of actions that we are discussing post-2012.
In particular, these issues concern topics related to developing countries as well as the balance between adaptation and mitigation.
The Commission looks forward to working closely with the Members of the European Parliament who will be part of the delegation in Buenos Aires.
Having a strong EU delegation – composed of representatives of all the European institutions at the COP – gives the Union an important opportunity to encourage the rest of the world to take more action now in response to the threat of climate change.
We have enjoyed working with her over the last five years in the environmental portfolio.
I would like to thank her for her particular contribution.
Failure to meet provisional targets – and my own country, Ireland, is currently 16% behind the target set – is very unfortunate.
But failure to act at all would be downright catastrophic.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC, an international panel of experts which assesses the scientific, technical, social, and economic aspects of climate change estimates that we need to decrease our emissions of greenhouse gas by 60-80% on 1990 levels in order for our efforts to make an appreciable difference to rising global temperatures.
Scepticism and climate change are two phenomena that have become so closely interlinked in the global debate on the future of our planet, that we are in danger of losing sight of the very real steps that have been taken, under the Kyoto Protocol mechanisms, towards setting a framework for future action to control the impact of human activities on the earth.
Kyoto is only a first step towards addressing global warming but it provides a crucial foundation on which future, more comprehensive and effective policies and agreements must be built.
In conclusion, the main obstacle at this point is diplomatic.
It strikes me as a nice finale that you can pass on this climate dossier in the knowledge that the Kyoto Protocol will enter into effect shortly, now that the Russian State Duma and the Russian Federation Council have ratified it, which they did on 22 and 27 October respectively.
The Kyoto Protocol will be able to enter into effect 90 days later.
My group welcomes President Putin’s decision to join the European Union and the other countries in tackling the greenhouse problem.
Europe and the European Commission have played an important role in achieving this result, and congratulations, also to you, are certainly in order.
The climate policy can rely on immense support in Europe.
Europe has confirmed its pioneering role in respect of the climate conference in Buenos Aires.
Although my group is satisfied, it does, of course, remain critical.
We should also bring about concrete measures in order to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases.
The presidency’s ideas in the environmental field sound good but should be translated into results.
It is in Buenos Aires that it remains to be seen whether our fine words will also be spoken and fulfilled at international level.
We have to ensure not only that we implement Kyoto – which, as we know, will do nothing to combat climate change but will simply slow down the process – but also that we involve developing nations, raise the targets and find ways of changing public policy in ways that are politically acceptable and involve the United States.
It should be realised, however, that Kyoto is only the first step on a long road and now is the time to prepare for the next round of reductions in emissions.
We need to involve new countries, such as China and India.
The EU should waste no time in putting forward, first of all, a proposal for its own long-term targets for reductions in emissions and, secondly, its proposal for a model for reductions in emissions internationally.
In order for us to be able to prevent climate change turning into a catastrophe, global emissions must develop a downward trend within not more than twenty years, and the industrialised countries must cut their emissions by at least 60% within approximately 50 years.
We need market mechanisms that favour clean technology, such as taxation on energy and emissions trading, but we also need other new measures.
In other words, there is still time to prevent a catastrophic change through a gradual series of measures, provided we are determined and consistent, and provided the EU maintains its leading position in international climate policy. &#160;&#160; Now that the Kyoto Protocol can enter into force, it is important to look forward to what we can do in terms of our work on climate after 2012.
It is especially important for us to enter into discussions with the big developing countries, such as India and China, about the fact that they too must make binding commitments to reduce their emissions in the future, emissions that are now increasing extremely quickly.
That is the fair objective in the very long term.
We do not have time to wait for the Americans, but we know that the day will come when, for both economic and ecological reasons, they will be forced to commit themselves to this work.
Kyoto is a step in the right direction, towards a better environment, but we have a long way to go yet.
I would therefore like to call on the Council and Commission, together with the European Parliament, to demonstrate that the EU not only wants to have a strong economy but also a strong environmental policy.
This protocol still leaves a great deal to be desired; for example, aircraft emissions should be added to it, and the support base could also be further widened.
Mrs Wallström, your new portfolio might prove useful in this respect.
Let us work hard on the remaining 45%. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to talk about climate change, but above all about the report of the European Environment Agency, which two months ago published a prognosis for the future and points out that the areas at greatest risk, the areas which are going to suffer most as a result of climate change, are the Mediterranean areas.
I would call on Europe to opt clearly for strategies to combat desertification and a policy for adapting to climate change, as recommended by the Agency.
I am therefore calling for a Mediterranean policy, a policy fundamentally of social balance and a more active policy for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, while I congratulate you on your new duties, I am delighted that you are here tonight for this debate on climate change.
The European Union’s strategy for the Buenos Aires Climate Change Conference is of very great importance.
The European Union must maintain its leadership and, furthermore, make use of it to negotiate with a view to increasing the number of countries signing up to the Kyoto Protocol in the future.
For all these reasons, Commissioner, I believe it would be positive for the Commission to promote proposals aimed at increasing measures in the field of energy performance and promoting alternative energy sources for the second period, and producing proposals is another way to maintain the European Union's leadership. &#160;&#160; We are now already seeing the effects.
This particular sentence places heavy demands on us to take drastic measures to reduce our emissions.
This problem will increasingly come to dominate people’s shared existence as this century progresses.
Whilst the EU appears determined to meet the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol, a great deal remains to be done, however, if we are to prepare our communities to face the changes that are already underway.
This strand, which has become an integral part of the Community action programme on climate change, should now be extended. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we need cleaner energy and more efficient technologies and, in order to achieve that, we need incentives – negative incentives, if you like – such as a carbon tax.
It has been estimated that 100 of the largest companies in Ireland will exceed the current emission rates between 2005 and 2007.
It is important to be aware that Parliament, the Commission and Council share almost the same views on this important issue.
I hope to continue to follow this discussion, because this concerns not only the environment but also our survival on this planet and the economic and social consequences that affect us now.
I wish your delegation and our EU delegation to COP 10 in Buenos Aires all the best. &#160;&#160; At the end of the debate, I received a motion for a resolution from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.(1) The debate is therefore closed.
The Kyoto Protocol is off life-support because the Russian Federation ratified it.
But complacency in dealing with it, is worse.
My duty as a MEP, is to stress the necessity of climate change protection to: the people we represent, our EU counterparts and our international partners.
Our information gives good reason to assume that in 2002 not a single target out of the 75 different targets applying to Member States was missed.
We therefore consider that the appropriate legal procedure is codecision on the basis of Article 95.
However, I can also accept limited postponement for some of the countries concerned.
I think, therefore, that we should wait for the outcome of the two ongoing studies and discuss this issue on the basis of a report that the Commission will present to Parliament and the Council in 2005.
I agree with the Commission that we need to finalise this issue as quickly as possible and that we must try to create political clarity for the new Member States at the earliest opportunity.
Commissioner, that is very disappointing in my view and I have decided to focus on this revision.
In Amendment No 4, on behalf of my group, I have suggested including in the directive the possibility of Member States encouraging the reuse of packaging material.
Member States can introduce new systems for the reuse of packaging material or, alternatively, maintain existing systems if these yield an environmental advantage compared to recycling or recovery from packaging material.
It is therefore beyond me that even this has provoked objections among the Members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and within the European packaging industry.
The reaction from the PPE-DE and the industry is simply bewildering if we stop and think about the state of the environment and nature.
We have not sufficiently succeeded in integrating sustainable development in our production and in our patterns of consumption.
Tomorrow, this Parliament will also be discussing the Kok report on the implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
Mr Wim Kok has concluded that the pursuit of a sustainable society, one in which man, the environment and the market are in harmony, has, although commendable, not been given due prominence, and that this is due to a lack of political will.
Not only can we speak out in the resolution about what is yet to be done, we can also speak out in favour of a concrete, sustainable supplement to the Packaging Directive.
The choice is yours: a voice for a Europe that is striving towards a sustainable society and acts accordingly, or a voice for a Europe that is full of fine words about sustainable development and the Lisbon strategy, but lacks the energy or moral fibre to back these up with vigour.
You have my heartfelt support in this, and I wish you much success in this respect.
The new Member States negotiated transitional periods with the Commission of differing lengths according to their capacity to comply with these objectives or not, because, in reality, for many countries, these objectives are very ambitious and not at all easy to comply with.
I believe it is premature to open up this debate when in June the Commission will have to present Parliament and the Council with a report on the application of the directive, its impact on the environment and the operation of the external market.
All the new Member States have asked for transition periods to be granted.
So Parliament and the Council called on the Commission to prepare the statement which we have heard today, a statement that would examine various aspects of the effects on the environment and the internal market.
I should also like to thank Mrs Corbey for her report.
The rapporteur is trying to safeguard Dutch national provisions on re-usable packaging.
I strongly urge that we use all our efforts to promote re-use over recycling and recovery when we come to the full review of the packaging directive next year.
That will be the right time to ensure that we give re-use the priority it deserves. &#160;&#160; .The revised packaging and packaging waste directive marks another important step towards strategies and policies that focus on waste minimisation, recovery, reuse and recycling.
I therefore support Mrs Corbey and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety with respect to the amendments on this point.
It is also extremely important for us to ensure that countries can pursue policies on reuse and that we do not close down any possibilities in this respect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in noting the delay in the implementation of the packaging waste directive that the accession states are to be allowed, I wish to say that, from our experience in Northern Ireland, they are fortunate to escape its requirements for several years.
I am also somewhat surprised that the last speaker seems ignorant of the fact that there are different provisions in the Republic of Ireland and that it has been granted an extension and deferment until the end of 2011.
Perhaps if she concentrated more on the documents, rather than speaking in a language that no one cares to understand, she might not have made such a fundamental mistake. &#160;&#160; Mr President, to follow on from what my two colleagues have just said, I took part in the adoption of this directive with Mrs Corbey and others.
If not, on what basis have they been decided?
Ireland has no energy recovery or incineration facilities so all our targets have to be met through recycling alone.
Bringing about this change has taken – and will continue to take – time, effort and investment, a fact that is reflected in the 2011-2012 timetable set in the revised packaging directive for Greece, Portugal and Ireland.
The same type of derogation and the same argument should apply to our colleagues in the new Member States.
If we are to set unreasonable objectives for recycling and recovery of packaging waste which take no account of capacity constraints, we might just as well get it over with now, book our slot in advance at the ECJ for non-implementation and spare the Commission a waste of envelopes on letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions under the infringement procedure laid down in Article 226 of the Treaty.
With the enlarged Europe we now find ourselves in a situation in which the common targets set to achieve harmonised legislation are particularly stringent for the newest Member States, and perhaps more so than ever before.
The entry into force of this directive must be based on the guarantee of an internal market that is as viable as possible without any risk of distortions.
The area of the internal market has expanded, and there are perhaps greater differences in the basic standards of Member States than ever before.
The Commission’s proposal to lay down a common deadline of December 2012 for the new Member States regarding recovery and recycling targets under the packaging waste directive can be justified for market convergence to be achieved as soon as possible.
There has also been much discussion in connection with the reading of the Directive on the recycling and recovery of packaging waste.
For example, cardboard boxes and cartons are often collected and recycled locally, to avoid a large number of unnecessary journeys.
From the point of view of the report under discussion now, it would be good if the objective of coherent adaptation were not unnecessarily compromised by vague reuse systems of packaging at national level. &#160;&#160; Before I call on Commissioner Wallström to speak, I shall remind Members who have intended to make use of unofficial Union languages that this institution has a profound respect for their decision but, at the same time, according to a Bureau decision of 27 October last, speeches made in these languages cannot be translated and, consequently, cannot be Minuted.
Firstly, Mrs Jackson, as you know, our proposal suggests a deadline of 31 December 2012 for all the new Member States.
The amendment confirms the deadline for seven new Member States, but allows a deadline of 2013 for Malta, 2014 for Poland and 2015 for Latvia.
In reply to your question, this reflects the wishes the new Member States expressed to the Commission in the consultation round in spring 2003.
The Commission considers that this matter should be debated openly, treating all countries equally.
We have no problem in accepting differentiated dates, if that is what Parliament and the Council want.
The common position advocates a policy of constructive engagement with Cuba through enhanced dialogue with government and civil society with the objective of encouraging 'a process of transition to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as a sustainable economic recovery and improvement in the living standards of the Cuban people'.
The EU has repeatedly underscored the importance of political dialogue with the Cuban authorities and has indicated its willingness to restart such a dialogue when conditions permit.
The European Commission deplores the Cuban Government's decision to freeze relations with all embassies of EU Member States that have invited dissidents to their national days and with the Commission delegation in Havana, as well as the refusal of direct aid from the European Union.
In October 2004 the Commission took a decision to provide EUR 1 million in humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable victims of hurricanes Ivan and Charlie in Cuba.
The decision by the Cuban Government to release certain dissidents on health grounds is a positive gesture to an improved situation, but not sufficient to warrant full revocation of the measures decided by the Council in June last year.
The aim continues to be the release of all political prisoners in Cuba.
The June measures are currently being reviewed by the Council.
The European Council wishes to stress that the result of this review has to be consistent with the overall aims of the common position and the human rights policy of the EU.
Our presence in Cuba is more important today than ever.
The main tasks of the delegation are not only to assist with the implementation of eight programmes and projects, but also to promote a political dialogue with the Cuban authorities and civil society, to monitor human rights issues and to protect the trade and investment interests of Member States.
But the dialogue that we advocate, that we believe in and which we put into practice, Mr President, has not been wrecked by any government of the European Union, nor by Osvaldo Payá, nor by Elisardo Sánchez, nor by Marta Beatriz Roque, but by the policy of executions, the arrest of independent journalists - such as Raúl Rivero, who is currently rotting in Cuban prisons, and others - and the policy of arresting peaceful dissidents and human rights campaigners.
Faced with these events, our Parliament cannot remain deaf, dumb and blind.
The European Union’s dialogue and cooperation with all the countries of the world includes a chapter on the human rights situation.
It is an extremely important chapter, but there are others.
Only in the case of Cuba is the human rights chapter exclusive, precluding any other chapter which should exist in our relations with that country.
Furthermore, with all the countries of the world, the European Union’s dialogue and cooperation is aimed at overcoming shortcomings in the field of human rights.
Furthermore, however, this policy has demonstrated a complete distancing of our European societies from their respective national governments and the European Union itself, and absolutely no notice has been taken of their views.
I am referring, for example, to the art biennale, the book fair, the ballet festival or the trade fair in Havana.
Finally, we believe that this policy has damaged Europe’s credibility in Cuba and in the whole of Latin America, by giving the impression that we are supporting US strategies in the region.
Following this assessment, our conclusion is that the policy pursued so far by the European Union in relation to Cuba, and which is based on the common position and measures, must be reviewed, rationalised and updated.
What we are saying is in line with what several Member State governments are saying in the European Council.
Furthermore, in doing so we will be applying the same approach to that country as we do to China, Vietnam, Iran, Israel, Syria, Libya, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and also the United States and dozens of other countries in which we note very serious shortcomings, which in many cases are much more serious than those in Cuba, in terms of freedoms, human rights and the Rule of Law, but with which we talk and cooperate precisely with a view to improving the things we do not like.
Mr President, that is the aim of the resolution presented by our group and supported by other sections of the House. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour.
Payá and the others are working for a Cuba in which democracy, human rights, pluralism, freedom and justice exist for all.
The situation in Cuba, one of the world’s last Communist dictatorships, is worse.
No progress has been made since the Council toughened its so-called common position.
Just as the Commissioner said, he is boycotting the EU and our Member States.
Oswaldo Payá and the other dissidents are appealing to us to hold fast to our values and to the policy we have adopted.
That is why it is important to intensify our dialogue with the dissidents and to support a gradual transition to democracy.
We honoured Oswaldo Payá and the other Cuban democracy activists here in this House, and that was a long-term commitment.
Just like ourselves, Cubans are entitled to democracy and human rights.
We have always called for the release of all prisoners and we also call for a clear transition to democracy.
The question at the moment is how best to push Cuba towards democracy; after 40 years of embargo, and now with the European Union’s sanctions, we can see that this method is not effective and that the best way to help Cuban society is not to isolate it, but rather to create increasingly close and strong relations with Cuban civil society, to help the NGOs in society.
The relationship with Europe helps this Latin America, and the relationship with Latin America helps Europe.
This unfortunate development prompted the Christian trade union leader in my country, Doekle Terpstra, to send a letter to the Dutch Presidency earlier this week.
At the same time, I would ask the Council and Commission whether there is any coordination between the EU’s human rights policy and that of the United States with regard to Castro’s Cuba?
I should like to finish off with the appeal by Oswaldo José Payá Sardiñas.
On 5 June 2003, the Council voted unanimously to impose political sanctions on the Cuban regime, following the indictment of 75 dissidents and the death sentence imposed on three citizens who had tried to flee to the United States.
This event unfortunately fits into a general picture of continued and repeated violations and negation of fundamental freedoms in Cuba, as also confirmed recently by COLAT.
Fidel Castro’s regime, which is in severe difficulty following growing internal and international pressure, is becoming more and more oppressive and repressive, in particular towards the younger generation, which dreams of a future of freedom, true democracy and development, a new and open horizon, incompatible with the current communist establishment.
We will never cry enough when we see a person with the courage to fight destroyed by contempt, malice and other means we know of which are so cunning, so subtle and so expert that they are almost beyond description’.
We are not talking on our own behalf, but on behalf of the actual people fighting and suffering for freedom and democracy.
This is not a party-political issue; it is a fundamental political and human issue for the real people over in Cuba, where the pain is felt, who are watching us and listening to us: Bárbaro Sevilla García, 22 years old, executed; Lorenzo Copello Castillo, 30 years old, executed; Jorge Luis Martínez Izak, 40 years old, executed; Víctor Rolando Arroyo Carmona, sentenced to 26 years in prison; Miguel Galbán Gutiérrez, sentenced to 26 years in prison; Jorge Vero Castañeda, sentenced to 20 years in prison; Pablo Pacheco Ávila, sentenced to 20 years in prison.
Mr President, I do not have time now to read all the names of the dozens of victims of the tragic March of 2003, and their families, friends and colleagues.
Cuba has suffered for many years the unacceptable, unilateral and revengeful policy of isolation and commercial and economic exclusion of the United States, which has pushed the Cuban people into poverty and forced the regime to harden.
The situation in human rights, the rule of law and democratic freedoms in Cuba is not good.
The European Union, and the Council of Ministers in particular, should radically rethink its deadlock stand and have the courage to lift sanctions and restore relations with Cuba immediately.
The European Union should support the funding of programmes in the humanitarian aid and infrastructure sectors.
If the fight for the defence of human rights and the building of a democratic society in Cuba is in fact an honest rather than an ostentatious fight, then the European Union should listen to the voice of European public opinion, of our people, and proceed to lift sanctions and develop relations and contacts with Cuba. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are two facts here: Cuba does not have political freedom, and neither did Spain when, under the Franco regime, with the jails full of political prisoners, she signed a spectacular trade agreement with the European Union.
Another true fact is that the European Union has maintained a common position since 1996 which has produced no positive result whatsoever and which has made no contribution to improving the situation on the island.
They are poor arguments, devoid of content and entirely inconsistent with European political reality, with the way in which we in Europe have dealt with our relations with every other region of the world, where we have rejected the black and white approach, a dialogue between Saint Michael and Satan, and where we work in accordance with the specific reality, with political practice, with changes as they take place.
The resolution to be voted on tomorrow, if voted for in its original version, prohibits the Council from modifying or even reconsidering the position on Cuba until Cuban jails have been emptied.
We would like to empty Cuban jails of political prisoners and we would like political freedom in Azerbaijan and in Ukraine and in Belarus and in Sudan, and in China as well.
Europe would in this way signal its independence, its autonomy – which does not mean conflict with the United States, but actually means autonomy and independence of judgment in international affairs.
We must stand firm and continue to call on the Cuban regime to respect human rights, and we must be rigorous in demanding the release of political prisoners.
According to Human Rights Watch, Castro is not suffering under the US embargo, but the Cuban people as a whole most certainly are.
The Eighth Session of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly will begin next Saturday in the Netherlands, and in view of this I should like to note that 77 of the countries that are Members of the Assembly believe that relations with Cuba should be stepped up, not scaled down.
But it has had the recent good fortune of Mr Zapatero's new socialist government coming to power in Spain.
That is why our resolution supports lifting it.
I, however, will regard the departure of President Castro as a fresh chance to build a prosperous and democratic Cuba. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much agree with Commissioner Nielson that 2003 was a sad year for EU-Cuba relations, and one of lost opportunities.
Others in this House do not seem to have been listening.
I would remind Mr Tannock and others, when they are looking for parallels or examples around the world, that in different circumstances the UK Government never got anywhere with the Irish situation until we were prepared to enter into very difficult negotiations with our political opponents, people with whom we disagreed fundamentally.
I urge Members to think very carefully and support a sensible and realistic compromise text that will move the EU forward, will help Cuba and will help the world. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the law passed in Cuba this year limiting access to the Internet is a clear violation of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
It was adopted as a punishment to society, following the statements made last year by a group of 75&#160;protesters fighting for the freedom to express their opinions.
Well then, I do not see why the same pragmatic attitude, based on a positive and motivational approach – and not simply one that is sanctions-based and punitive – cannot also be applied to Cuba.
As we all know from experience, in the era of globalisation, helping to break Cuba’s isolation through greater economic cooperation would not fail to have positive repercussions on its internal politics, beginning precisely with human rights.
A more advanced and intense phase of political dialogue and cooperation must be opened up, which fully involves not only governments but also civil society in all its facets.
We need to clear the path to a peaceful, negotiated transition towards a fully democratic and pluralistic change, and affirm the notion of a Cuban road to democracy.
These must now be the objectives of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, to the things I condemned yesterday in this very House – that is to say, the obscure backroom manoeuvres of the Spanish Government aimed at reducing the sanctions imposed by the European Union on the Castro regime – I can now add the media manipulation of the results of the meeting of the European Council’s Committee on Latin America, which at no point has reduced the sanctions imposed on the regime in 2003.
This Parliament has always been a model and a pioneer in defence of human rights and at this critical time it must demonstrate that it will not throw in its lot with a corrupt dictator in full decline nor be carried along by the collaborationism of certain Members who have always been manipulated by that dictatorship.
I believe we would all agree that their aspiration is to overcome the immense deficiencies they suffer in both the economic field and in the field of freedoms and civil, social and political rights.
Mr President, our differences today relate to the common position adopted by the European Union in 1996.
I believe that, after eight years, the common position deserves evaluation and a possible but consensual reform, with a very broad, practically unanimous, agreement in the Council, which allows us to explore new positions on Cuba which are more effective but in no way provide a lifeline for the Cuban dictatorship and which in no way undermine the dissidents, the opposition or the political prisoners, many of whom are suffering dreadfully in prison.
The sanctions came in the form of an invitation to Cuban dissidents to attend Member States' national day celebrations, alongside government representatives in Cuba.
This action clearly infuriated the Cubans.
By all means condemn human rights violations in Cuba, but do the same in China.
We need to adopt alternative strategies to push the human rights agenda.
We provide humanitarian aid in reaction to need, and provide it where that need is, without considering politics.
This point is very important, and it is important that I take the time to repeat our position.
I am not saying this because I feel it is a real problem in this House, but because it is important never to make that mistake.
I tend to agree with those who have said that the common position has not produced any results.
The other approach is the easy one and we have to get into the game, we have to get closer to the real politics of change and progress in Cuba if possible.
If we are not ready to make an investment to create a real basis for a dialogue – one that is defined by us and not by a paranoid representation of the way the hardliners in Havana see the outside world – we are only relying on autopilot-defined rhetoric or, in other words, the old common position.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 17 November 2004 at 12.30 p.m.
