Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Madam President, this is a report that gives me the opportunity to mention the City of Liverpool, which is in my constituency.
Simply advocating without qualification an increase in development funds and presenting all manner of percentages as dogma is totally irresponsible, and so I voted against this report. (NL) Madam President, it is a cliché, but young people are our future, and so I would be the first to admit that the quality of our instructors and of teacher education is extremely important.
Education falls within the competence of the Member States, and that is the way it should stay, in my opinion.
This is known as subsidiarity, and must be respected. (FI) Madam President, I wish to say a few words about this report by Mrs Badia i Cutchet on improving the quality of teacher education, which I think is an excellent one.
That is why we also need wider forms of cooperation in the exchange of best practices in the area of teacher training, because at present, as we all know, there are differences between the course levels for teachers in the Member States which are simply far too great, according to the OECD's PISA survey.
Thank you. (SK) I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the report on the Bologna Process and its impact on student mobility.
I also agree with the view that the mutual recognition of qualifications should be further simplified and that the Bologna Process should be more uniform at the national level in Member States.
I am reminded of the situation that pertained after the attacks of 11 September 2001, when a number of proposals for the harmonisation of justice and home affairs, which had been kicking around for years, were repackaged as anti-terrorism measures and, in the febrile atmosphere that followed those terrible attacks, nobody wanted to be seen voting against.
Markets in Europe, in the different countries, are different, and therefore we should not try to impose a blanket coverage of regulation which would apply to all of them.
We are in favour of the possibility of timely intervention when a terrorist act has not yet been committed - that is, beforehand - so that lives can be saved. (NL) Madam President, I am of course in favour of combating terrorism effectively, and I consider this particular field - the fight against terrorism - to be one that requires very intensive cross-border cooperation in Europe.
During the Second World War, measures were taken in my country which were not in accordance with civil liberties, in order to protect the population from the external threat.
In recognising the particular need to act in order to guarantee the security of EU citizens, I wish to make the point that the best way of combating organised terrorist groups is supranational cooperation between the institutions responsible for security.
Many of our fellow citizens have worked hard to be in the EU, but membership is not only about duties - it is also about rights.
We are here today to show our commitment to the Europe which our citizens expect from us. (NL) Madam President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has just taken advantage of the voting on the Hammerstein report to hold a vote sneakily - on the quiet, as it were - on the seat of the European Parliament, even though this actually had nothing to do with the report as such.
I should like to clarify that I voted in favour of this amendment by the Greens as I agree that the travelling popular theatre that is the European Parliament is already squandering enough of our taxpayers' money without the monthly migration from Brussels to Strasbourg adding to it.
It may be a very small issue in the context of the major challenges facing us globally today, but we in the EU have to win the hearts as well as the minds of our citizens in terms of what we do.
I understand that 12 visits to Strasbourg per annum are part of the Treaty and we are signed in, but in a rational and calm way.
Strasbourg and France deserve no less, but a major institution must be housed in that building.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of the report by my German fellow Member Mr Markov, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, amending the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1172/95.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this report because the draft regulation represents the legal framework required for improving the quality and transparency of EXTRASTAT (the statistics on foreign trade between Member States and third countries), by including a single customs declaration in customs procedures, so as to simplify data reporting procedures.
in writing. - We have often asked ourselves whether it is worth dedicating a year to a particular topic.
I voted in favour of the Batzeli report on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Year of Creativity and Innovation (2009), as I believe creativity and innovation are essential for Europe to be competitive in a globalised world.
The European Year of Creativity and Innovation will stimulate political debate, alert the public to the importance of innovation and creativity and disseminate information on best practices within the Union.
I also believe it is important that Parliament has opted for co-decision in this area, which will allow it to have influence in this important dossier.
I voted in favour on condition that the Commission committed itself to bringing innovation to all areas.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Batzeli on the European Year of Creativity and Innovation (2009).
Creativity is also an important factor in the development of personal and social skills.
in writing. - I support Katerina Batzeli's report on making 2009 the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report by my Spanish colleague Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra, approving as it stands the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (Euratom, ECSC, EEC) No 549/69 determining the categories of officials and other servants of the European Communities to whom the provisions of Article 12, the second paragraph of Article 13 and Article 14 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Communities apply.
To ensure that the Europol decision applies from 1 January 2010, it was necessary, in good time, to amend Council Regulation (Euratom, ECSC, EEC) No 549/69 specifying that immunity from legal proceedings does not apply to Europol staff taking part in joint investigation teams set up by at least two Member States at their own initiative.
This is a smokescreen to make it appear that Europol officials' immunity will be limited when in fact Europol's powers will be extended after 2010 and the immunity of its officials will be even more far-reaching.
I therefore voted in favour of the report.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Dutch fellow Member Mr Berman on the follow-up of the Monterrey Conference of 2002 on Financing for Development.
In 2001 the EU made a big commitment: to devote 0.7% of its wealth to development in 2015.
In 2007 Europe turned its back on this commitment, with a drastic fall in its collective effort.
The EU must, however, guarantee the effectiveness of its aid in order to make any real improvement to the situation of the most deprived.
The Monterrey Conference of 2002 prepared a roadmap, particularly concerning the end of 'tied aid', the acceleration of debt cancellation initiatives and the introduction of innovative finance schemes like the 'Tobin tax'.
in writing. - (SV) The United Nations Millennium Development Goals Report for 2008 says that the international community must continue to be prepared to take significant responsibility for the challenges facing humanity.
Extreme poverty and hunger, infant mortality, poor maternal health, HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases and the lack of universal primary education are just some of the challenges which merit attention and recognition by all countries in the world.
Reflecting the position of Junilistan, the report notes that in many cases these challenges call for international coordination.
For that reason, Junilistan has voted against the report.
I voted in favour of the report.
Some Member States, such as France and Great Britain, have cut back their Official Development Assistance (ODA).
This is not because China is the poorest country in the world; nor is it because China has become a priority country for Polish development aid.
China has become the greatest beneficiary of Polish development aid simply because an export trade contract with that country has been included in the category of development aid.
I therefore voted in favour of the report.
The internal market scoreboard is an instrument that makes it possible to monitor progress in the introduction, proper transposition and correct application of directives relating to the internal market.
It is a typically political instrument that should, however, not be treated lightly, but should serve as an instrument encouraging responsible individuals to carry out more rapid and proper transposition.
The internal market scoreboard should also be used more frequently in discussions about the state of the internal market.
It is therefore essential to come up with a more accessible form of scoreboard that could also be used by citizens interested in internal market matters.
The rapporteur has drawn attention to the fact that certain directives, such as the Services Directive, are more important for the effective functioning of the internal market than others.
in writing. - (RO) Through my positive vote today for the internal market scoreboard, I am expressing my support for the timely enforcement and accurate transposition of internal market directives into national law, because these directives constitute the prerequisite for the effective working of the internal market, and for promoting competitiveness as well as social and economic cohesion within the EU.
I therefore voted wholeheartedly against this report.
I voted in favour of the Badia i Cutchet report on improving the quality of teacher education as I believe that improving education in the European Union is a key factor in promoting high-quality education and training, which in turn contributes to job creation and boosting Europe's competitiveness and growth, in line with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote 'no' in the final vote on this report.
The Member States must have exclusive responsibility for the organisation of education and the content of training provision.
in writing. - The Badia report has much to commend it.
in writing. - Maria Badia i Cutchet's report has my support.
The pupil-teacher ratio remains too high to allow for the best possible education of our children.
The communication assesses the current situation in the EU as regards the education and training of teachers.
The report reflects upon the various options in EU Member States.
Within the Union, there are more than 27 different teacher training systems, but the challenges facing teachers are essentially common to all Member States.
The recommendations for Member States that are contained in the report seem to be the right ones, and these are: employment of the best candidates, improvement in status, teacher recognition and remuneration, investment in training at all stages of an individual's career, exchange of best practice among the 27 different education systems in the EU, and an increase in schools' powers.
A high level of teaching is an essential element of a high quality of education, which should be a crucial factor in Europe's long-term competitiveness and its capacity to create new jobs.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my excellent German colleague Mrs Pack on the Bologna Process and student mobility.
I share my colleague's view that an increase in student mobility and the quality of the different educational systems should be a priority of the Bologna Process beyond 2010, which aims to establish a European Area of Higher Education.
in writing. - The aim of the Bologna process, launched in Bologna in June 1999, is to establish a European Higher Education Area by 2010.
Seriously redefining these goals will require reflection on how the Bologna Process has been implemented in the Member States.
We will need to examine whether the policies followed in the name of Bologna have actually led to the desired consolidation of a European Area of Higher Education that can meet the challenges of competitiveness on an international scale.
I support this initiative - it is a tangible contribution towards identifying problems and challenges that have arisen over 10 years of implementation on the one hand, and issues that need to remain priorities on the other.
As our rapporteur points out, we must not lose sight of the goals of the Process or of the notion of students being at the heart of all questions concerning their education.
I voted in favour of the Pack report on the Bologna Process and student mobility as I believe that high-quality, effective and innovative European higher education that is accessible to every European citizen is vital for the European Union to continue to be competitive and successful in the face of the demands of globalisation.
With this in mind, I believe measures such as promoting reciprocity in terms of the flow of students, ongoing training of teachers in the various areas of study and developing means of financing student mobility are essentials for achieving the Bologna Process objectives.
Although the rapporteur says she is particularly concerned about student mobility within the European Union and considers that Member States should be supported in their efforts to modernise and innovatively reform their respective higher education systems, the fact of the matter is that the entire report tackles this question by focusing on the Bologna Process and on what is deemed absolutely necessary in order to face the challenges of globalisation, insisting that the process should be deepened.
However, we do agree that it is time for reflection and debate on the Bologna Process, in particular to try to determine how education systems have changed and how these developments and changes have affected the quality of higher education in the various Member States.
in writing. - (SV) This own-initiative report from the European Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education, as usual, exceeds the Committee's competence in putting forward new ideas on how the EU should become more involved in education.
This is a field which currently falls within the responsibility of the Member States, and that is the way we think it should remain.
We have therefore voted against this report.
Seriously redefining these goals will require reflection on how the Bologna Process has been implemented in the Member States.
We will need to examine whether the policies followed in the name of Bologna have actually led to the desired consolidation of a European Area of Higher Education that can meet the challenges of competitiveness on an international scale.
I support this initiative - it is a tangible contribution towards identifying problems and challenges that have arisen over 10 years of implementation on the one hand, and issues that need to remain priorities on the other.
The aim of the Bologna Process is to establish a European Area of Higher Education by the end of 2010.
Clearly the attractiveness of the European Area of Higher Education will be greater, the better and more evenly spread the quality of education in the different Member States.
It is therefore crucial to support Member States in their efforts to modernise and reform their higher education systems.
Mobility has a positive impact not only on individuals who move, but also on higher education institutions.
The Commission should take urgent action, such as by accrediting an increased number of universities capable of participating in academic exchange programmes, thus increasing the attractiveness of new Member States as destinations for students from all over Europe.
The Commission must also make sure that a proportionate number of students from each Member State get the opportunity to have a European scholarship.
Secondly, I believe that article 11 of the report should be applied to all Member States, notwithstanding its recommendation status.
However, I must add that the inclusion of such a provision should be accompanied by corresponding financial support for the Member States.
This report calls for special assistance to be provided to students from disadvantaged groups in society by, for example, proposing 'inexpensive and decent' accommodation, and taking into account that extra support after arrival is often necessary.
In the voting Mrs Pack and her report on the Bologna Process and student mobility received my support.
This will enable us to sustain the potential for the flexible and mobile education of young people at a variety of academic centres and the very necessary exchange of professorial-level staff.
in writing. - Doris Pack's report 'The Bologna Process and student mobility' is a constructive contribution to the debate on student mobility.
The ability for students across the EU to be able to move freely between Europe's borders must remain a core element of the Bologna process.
I therefore voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the report on "The Bologna Process and Student Mobility” for several reasons: the Bologna Process was one of the most revolutionary elements in the world market of education and training.
Mrs Pack deserves our thanks for her contribution to the development of and creative reflection on the Bologna Process, which is an initiative enabling students in Europe to choose their own educational path and career without reference to state boundaries.
This is definitely a challenge for the new Member States and I think that prudent continuation of the Bologna Process is a step in this direction.
A united Europe is not just a matter of a single currency, free movement of people and a common market in goods and services.
I think that, in striving to improve the quality and attractiveness of education, what is important is actions taken at both European level (the European Parliament treats mobility as a priority issue) and national level.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Hungarian colleague Mr Szájer containing recommendations to the European Commission on the alignment of legal acts to the new Comitology Decision.
It is very important to further examine how the supervisory structures in the European Union can be improved.
The recitals are not the place to draw up value judgments on the current situation on the financial markets.
I voted against Amendments 6 to 10 inclusive this morning not because I oppose European supervision of financial markets, but because this report is not the right place to launch this initiative.
in writing. - (HU) Contrary to expectations, the financial crisis that started in America last year, triggered by the unregulated, speculative financial processes there, has now, far from abating, shaken the whole world, including Europe.
The current crisis requires a long-term change of paradigm by European decision-makers in two areas, so that in future they will not only reduce the danger of a financial crisis but also promote stable economic growth.
in writing. - (SV) Hedge funds and private equity are high-risk investment vehicles.
In order to restore confidence among investors, among the public and - not least - among the supervisory authorities, operations must be subject to both transparency and satisfactory legislation.
in writing. - It is regrettable that the report by Rasmussen on hedge funds and private equity has been watered down following the compromise negotiations between the three largest groups in Parliament.
In spite of this, we decided to support the report in the final vote.
in writing. - It is regrettable that the report by Rasmussen on hedge funds and private equity has been watered down following the compromise negotiations between the three largest groups in the Parliament.
In spite of this, we decided to support the report in the final vote.
To see such high-profile casualties is not only destabilising for the world economy, but for those who entrust their money and their future to these companies.
In encouraging hedge funds and private equity firms to be more prudent and transparent in their dealings, the EU will help construct a solid framework that will help restore much-needed stability to the financial sector.
in writing. - It is regrettable that the report by Rasmussen on hedge funds and private equity has been watered down following the compromise negotiations between the three largest groups in the Parliament.
In spite of this, we decided to support the report in the final vote.
Bearing in mind that we are going through a period of obvious turbulence in the financial markets, it is important to react firmly, but also calmly and with knowledge of the facts.
This is how the European Commission needs to understand this call for action by the European Parliament.
in writing. - (SV) The role of the European Parliament in the EU system is to be the voice of the people.
Certainly, some recommendations to the Member States are rather extreme and some proposals are not very well considered.
Nevertheless the work of the Committee on Petitions is a crucial part of the work of the EU on behalf of citizens, which for me was a crucial factor in my decision to support this report.
In the very week when the capitalist system is on the point of imploding, the European Parliament has missed its opportunity.
in writing. - I support the general approach of Klaus-Heiner Lehne's report on the transparency of institutional investors.
Transparency should be a guiding principle in how markets operate - financial markets in particular.
In the context of the current political and economic debate on financial markets, it is important for the Commission to interpret this recommendation in this sense, committing itself to defending the quality of European financial markets.
in writing. - (SV) Transparency is crucial to restoring confidence in the financial market.
Recent months have shown what problems can arise in a complex and fast-moving market if there is no possibility of understanding and following advanced products as well.
I voted in favour of the report by my Hungarian fellow Member Mr Hegyi, amending the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council modifying, as regards the implementing powers conferred on the Commission, Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs).
in writing. - Gyula Hegyi's report on amending Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 as regards the implementing powers conferred on the Commission seeks to propose amendments to the regulation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathy - a deadly disease spread by infected meat.
The report therefore has my backing.
Since I was not able to find any indication of this in the report, I voted in favour of it.
The European Parliament's resolution also calls on the Commission to submit the evaluation reports on pilot-studies in time, in order to avoid the double reporting of data concerning waste statistics.
in writing. - (RO) Insufficient data on waste generation and management prevents the European Union from enforcing a harmonised policy regarding waste.
in writing. - (LT) The spectrum, like other natural resources (sun, water, air), is a public asset.
Better coordination and a greater level of flexibility are necessary in order to make full use of this limited resource.
I am in favour of the further protection of economic interests in locations where mineral water is exploited, as guaranteed in the European Parliament's Directive on the exploitation and marketing of natural mineral waters.
The EU mineral water document specifies a Europe-wide standard on natural mineral water.
The discrepancies in these regulations interfere with the free movement of natural mineral water, creating different competition conditions, which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market in this product.
They are also essential in the fight against climate change in terms of CO2 emissions.
The allocation of Structural Funds by the EU for 2007-2013 is 53%.
in writing. - UKIP considers terrorism as a major problem.
We simply do not believe that the EU should decide about the actions to be taken to fight terrorism.
In fact, any public statement, or any statement reported in the media, or any message posted on the Internet that might in some way - whether directly or indirectly, on the basis of 'intent' and with 'the danger that such offences may be committed' - be considered incitement to commit a terrorist offence, will be made a crime at European level.
in writing. - (SV) The Swedish Freedom of the Press Act represents fundamental values in Swedish society.
The Lefrançois report proposes a number of good measures to improve the efficiency and coordination of the fight against terrorism within the EU.
I therefore voted in favour of it.
The ETA attacks a few days ago and the murderous attack in Islamabad have demonstrated that we can never be too vigilant and efficient in this fight.
Cross-border cooperation in the fight against terrorism - which, nowadays, is mainly Islamic in origin - is essential if we want to achieve results.
However, we cannot disregard past mistakes either.
I voted in favour of the Lefrançois report on the proposal for a Council Framework Decision amending Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA on combating terrorism, as I believe we need to adapt the instruments for combating terrorism to the new information and communication media available to terrorists.
Revising the EU framework decision will allow the inclusion of the concept of terrorism in specific preparatory acts, such as recruitment and training for terrorism and public provocation to commit terrorist acts, which will become criminal offences in all Member States.
The current international and Community legal framework includes a set of instruments that are more than necessary for combating real terrorism and the organised, violent and transnational crime that is associated with it.
The aim of this proposal is to step up the set of security measures, which, on the pretext of the events of 11 September 2001, have put citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk.
As in 'Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA on combating terrorism' - with its definition of 'terrorism' - once again the possibility remains open for implementing security measures and criminalising individuals or groups who speak out against or write about State terrorism.
We therefore voted against the report.
On Sunday 20 and Monday 21 September it was the turn of ETA, the Basque separatist organisation, to spill blood in three attacks.
The European Union intends to give itself a body of legislation to combat terrorism. (Explanation of vote cut pursuant to Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Lefrançois, since a central tenet of the fight against terrorism has to be the prevention of terrorist offences.
On this note, I voted in favour of the Lefrançois report.
in writing. - (RO) The recent attacks in the Basque Country show once again that terrorism is a daily reality and that we need effective instruments to fight it.
I am surprised that the commemoration of 7 years since the New York terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 went unnoticed by the European Parliament.
One of the main aims of the European Union within the framework of a policy for a common area of freedom, security and justice is ensuring the security of its 500 million citizens.
The most controversial issue in the content of the proposal to revise the Council framework decision on combating terrorism is the demand for the introduction of the concept of public provocation to commit terrorist offences.
The newly created document must be clear and harmonious from a legal aspect in order to make it an effective instrument in combating terrorism, while at the same time providing a high level of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The year 2008 reaped an enormous harvest, beginning on 1 February with the attack in Baghdad during a funeral, which caused the deaths of 30 people, and ending on 20 September with the attack on the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, in which over 60 people died and over 250 were injured.
This is why I think that the European Union should apply every effort to combat terrorism on a global scale, with respect for human rights.
The EU should make Europe safer by enabling its citizens to enjoy freedom, security and justice, which must to a large extent depend on the will of the Member States.
The Roure report demonstrates for the umpteenth time how political correctness is blinding Europe.
It is evident that, in the fight against crime and the fight against terrorism, the government has the right to gather as much data as possible on potential suspects, including 'ethnic' data.
As was pointed out in the debate, it is a proposal based on a lowest common denominator for an issue of such overarching importance as safeguarding the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens of the various Member States, that is below what is laid down in other legal instruments, particularly those of the Council of Europe.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Roure, which guarantees a high level of data protection with regard to the processing of personal data.
The Council's agreement has some deficiencies and therefore cannot guarantee this.
Reaching agreement on it is difficult, but should not lead to a superficial result or the watering down of data protection in the EU.
The Council's proposal can on no account be accepted in its present form.
A comprehensive legal framework on personal data is needed to ensure that there is substantial protection and no processing of such data by the state or by individuals, at either international or national level.
The European Parliament's criticisms and recommendations on the Council proposal are generally a move in the right direction, but they are not enough.
However, we think that, in the interests of our climate and environment and on economic grounds, the European Parliament should only have one seat: in Brussels.
in writing. - The Petitions Committee of the European Parliament performs an invaluable service to the European Union citizens, channelling their concerns to the Commission, questioning national, regional and local authorities on irregularities in the application of EU law, and taking on instances of violations of citizens' rights.
The sharp increase in the number of petitions received by the European Parliament last year illustrates both the citizens' growing awareness of how Parliament can serve them and the need for the Committee to be adequately funded and staffed.
I am convinced of the crucial role of the Petitions Committee as a resort for citizens faced with breaches of rules, as well as a bridge between them and all levels of administration and government within the EU via their elected MEPs.
It is a good thing, of course, that European citizens are able to petition the authorities - including their 'European authorities' - but I regret the federalist undertones of this report.
The way in which this report has been used to argue in favour of one European seat, to be located in Brussels, also disturbs me.
in writing. - (SV) This report is in fact an activity report from the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
As regards the question of a single seat for the European Parliament, we back the principle that it is for the Member States together to decide on the seat of the European Parliament, but we also think it reasonable for the European Parliament to express an opinion on the matter.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Mr Hammerstein's Amendment 1 to his own report.
It enables EU citizens to submit petitions concerning breaches of their rights as citizens by public authorities in the Member States.
in writing. - (LT) The signatures of more than 1 million EU citizens have been collected in support of the EU-wide citizens' initiative calling for one permanent seat for the European Parliament.
This is a matter that falls within the competence of the Member States.
This year has seen a 50% increase in the number of petitions received compared to 2006.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - I welcome the Hammerstein report on the Petitions committee today.
The project should be abandoned or re-worked to protect our national monuments.
I have voted in favour of the Hammerstein report on the work of the Committee on Petitions.
The effectiveness of the Committee on Petitions in negotiating and supporting citizens' causes needs to be improved by strengthening its institutional role and further improving its cooperation with the European Commission, the European Ombudsman and the authorities of the Member States.
in writing. - The failure of Parliament to support Amendment 1 on the issue of the one seat is disappointing.
We no longer need to hold sessions in Strasbourg.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote against the report, since we are opposed to the introduction of special support for hill and mountain farmers in the form of a dairy cow premium.
The same unproductive stance is maintained in the report, which tries to whitewash Community policy.
An essential pre-condition for improving living conditions, and increasing agricultural income in hill and mountain regions, is the struggle of the farmers themselves against the CAP, and the demand for special funding for hill and mountain regions in a bid to improve infrastructure and support the agricultural production process.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development wants to bestow favours on all the special interests it comes across in this sector.
If special provision now needs to be made for hill and mountain farmers, the question arises whether special measures and agreements need to be drawn up to protect agriculture in Norrland.
in writing. - This report highlights the key role mountainous regions play in terms of the environment, agriculture and even culture and tourism.
However, these unique areas can also present significant challenges for people living and working in them, especially in terms of infrastructure, communications and high production costs.
The challenges faced by these regions can best be met through rural development funding in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
The move to a more market-orientated CAP means that mountainous regions, where agricultural production is less competitive, are not only facing new challenges but also, I believe, new opportunities.
I differ from some of my colleagues here in the European Parliament in that I do not believe the solution to the challenges facing mountainous regions is to throw more CAP money at these regions.
Where there are clear public benefits to supporting farming in mountainous regions, such as environmental benefits, I believe that public funding under the rural development pillar would be more appropriate.
