However, the most important event in connection with transatlantic relations will be the EU-US Summit which Slovenia will host in Brdo pri Kranju on 10 June.
The Progress Report of the Transatlantic Economic Council meeting held in Brussels on 13 May will be presented by the Council co-chairs, the Assistant to the US President for International Economic Affairs, Daniel Price, and the Commissioner for Enterprise and Industry and Vice President of the European Commission, Günter Verheugen, who is present here today.
The declaration is being adjusted in the Transatlantic Relations Working Party - COTRA - and the progress of the talks has also been presented at the Political and Security Committee on 20 May, at the meeting of the Permanent Representatives of the Member States to the European Union at COREPER on 21 May, and at the General Affairs and External Relations Council (GAERC) last week, on 26 May.
We are endeavouring to set a the date for the signing of the Air Safety Agreement - adjustment of which is now in its final stage - and we would like to be able to sign it at least by the end of our Presidency, that is to say by the end of June.
We have devoted a great deal of attention to this matter in all contacts with the United States and in our preparations for the summit.
However, we have more in common with the United States than with all the European Union's other strategic partners.
Nevertheless, the political debate in the United States has changed considerably, and it is moving in our direction.
This is very worrying.
The Commission has presented two proposals in connection with the work of the Transatlantic Economic Council, relating to the import ban on American poultry.
The debates we had with our congressional colleagues showed just how broad an agenda has now developed between the US Congress and the European Parliament in this transatlantic framework: economic issues, which we heard the Commissioner talk about just now, political issues, which could also be economic, like climate change, but also difficult issues like Afghanistan and the broader security concept.
I have three short reflections to give to this debate.
Firstly, when you have such a broad agenda of so many different issues, which is of quite a different nature from that of ten years ago, we surely need to begin to build some form of common approach to a security dimension, a security strategy.
Secondly, there is a real absence of the legislators' dialogue in this debate.
That too offers prospects for even greater improvement in the relations between the European Union and the United States.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, it is important to have an open discussion forum and cooperation between the United States of America and the European Union.
Commissioner Verheugen also emphasised the importance of cooperation with Congress.
Another point that is important for the collective reputation of our common democratic values is that on the one hand we are in agreement that there is a terrorist threat, but that on the other hand we also have to highlight the fact that this debate is also taking place with constitutional funds.
Mr Verheugen, since you have played a leading role in lifting the ban on chlorinated chicken, which has been in place in the EU since 1997, let me tell you that all of us who disagree with you - and there are many of us - do so not through ignorance but because we consider protecting public health to be more important than commercial interests.
This is why we should be working more closely together with our American friends. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will mention one aspect of the relations between the European Union and the United States, and that is the US anti-missile shield system.
I thus want to call on the Council once again to create, finally, a platform for the participation of all EU Member States in the debate on this issue.
Citizens of the United States may travel freely to all EU countries, but the only people who do not have to apply for US visas are citizens of a few of the richest countries of the European Union.
Persuading this largest emitter to take on common obligations may lead to a global understanding in Poznań and Copenhagen, and it is only when we succeed in reaching such an understanding that our programme to limit emissions will not have been squandered.
In view of the forthcoming change of President in the United States, Europe should make its own political priorities and the proposals it has for their resolution very clear. (BG) Being a representative of a new EU Member State and a member of the Delegation for relations with the United States of America, I would like to speak about the important role of the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue which covered the meeting held in Ljubljana only a few days ago.
For this reason we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are in favour of a direct dialogue on security policy with the United States on those issues in which the European Union has jurisdiction.
Mr President, I wish to mention a few issues that I hope will be on the agenda of the summit on 10 June.
First, concerning Kosovo, it is obvious that it is in no one's interest to have a new failed state in the Balkans, and therefore Romania has been participating for years in the efforts to stabilise the region.
I would like to thank Commissioner Verheugen and Minister Rupel for raising this issue.
I personally would like these matters to be discussed within NATO or within the European Union, but at present that is not possible.
The question was whether we have done enough on this issue or problem.
First of all, cooperation on security issues, which Mrs in 't Veld has outlined very succinctly and which concerns how we find the right balance between the security requirements of our American friends and the demand that we ourselves are making on individual freedom and the individual rights of our citizens.
I should like to say quite clearly to you, Mrs in 't Veld, that the Commission fully shares your concerns and I shall, of course, be informing the relevant colleague of the criticism you have expressed on the lack of transparency in the process and asking him to ensure greater transparency.
We are not talking about a veterinary problem; we are talking about an issue of pure trade policy, which must be dealt with from the point of view: what are our interests and how do we best defend our interests?
At the same time, future debates regarding the cooperation framework on climate change must be based upon real studies on renewable energy sources.
in writing. - The forthcoming EU-US summit will give both transatlantic partners a chance to find common ground on issues relevant to both sides of the Atlantic.
