EU consumer policy strategy 2007-2013 (debate) The next item is the report by Lasse Lehtinen, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the EU Consumer Policy strategy 2007-2013.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, the report before us has undergone a thorough reading in committee, for which I thank my colleagues and above all the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups.
The 27 national mini-markets must be combined to constitute the largest retail market in the world.
The view is expressed in this report that it is indispensable for consumers to have a cross-border collective redress system in cases where there is a dispute.
I welcome the view of Parliament on the necessity to transform the 27 national mini-markets into a pan-European retail market - the largest in the world.
Like you, I strongly believe that, in order to make the internal market work, European consumers must be confident that they can enforce their rights and obtain redress across the whole European Union.
Personally, I think that collective redress - both judicial and non-judicial - could be an effective means for strengthening the redress framework that we have already set up for European consumers.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Mr President, in the Committee on Legal Affairs we agree with you, Commissioner: let us get rid of these 27 mini-markets; but, in order to do that, you need a much more common legal framework.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (SV) Mr President, let me say a big thank you to the Commissioner, Meglena Kuneva, and rapporteur Lasse Lehtinen.
The last and most important point, however, in the view of my group is the system of collective redress that we in the Socialist Group are advocating.
I believe the PPE-DE is failing to recognise the real problems.
The collective redress systems applicable in certain countries should be used against dishonest market players, and a collective redress system should be introduced at European level.
European consumer centres in the individual countries, as well as consumer organisations and consumer rights spokesmen, should step up information and education activities aimed at special protection for the most vulnerable consumers.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Thank you, Mr President.
It means empowered consumers and strong consumer protection as well as a business-friendly internal market legislation.
Likewise, it is essential that consumer organisations should be given a greater role in preparing legislative proposals.
Voting in favour of these things can only strengthen public confidence in a European market model that is both open and protective. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's consumer strategy encompasses various thematic areas, in which we very largely support its position.
We support you too, Mrs Kuneva, in your personal commitment to the completion of the single market and your particular focus on consumers and their role in the internal market.
We also acknowledge the need for a horizontal approach to consumer policy but regret the weak emphasis on the law of contract.
Last but not least, we should not forget that the consumers' rights should also function in the field of services, including the financial services and the services in the digital environment, where the degree of risk is much higher and it is much more difficult to prove the infringement of rights.
Mr President, I want to thank Lasse Lehtinen for a very comprehensive report, which contains an enormous amount of extremely significant ideas.
The problem with this issue about collective redress is that our colleagues in the Socialist Group seem to have already jumped to a conclusion that they want some new European legislation.
I would like to thank him and say that I believe we now have the best conditions for a good strategic understanding with Mrs Kuneva in this area. (PL) Mr President, there is no need to stress the importance of customer satisfaction for businesses.
It is important, however, that consumers should always have the possibility of real choice, of changing the service provider or seller.
Without a doubt, such choice creates a competitive market in which it does not pay market players to discourage consumers.
I believe the European Union internal market has such potential.
It is no less important that consumers should be informed about their rights and made aware of the tools that exist to help them in taking decisions in a free market.
Our task is to strike the right balance in consumer protection so as not to create a barrier to business development. (SK) I welcome the Commission's report on the EU consumer policy strategy and I also appreciate your efforts, Commissioner Kuneva, to promote a consumer culture based on consumer awareness and better access to information.
I fully support the two amendments proposed by my political group, the PPE-DE, to Article 40 of the report dealing with collective redress.
Nevertheless, I would like to make an observation regarding Paragraph 35 of the report.
This paragraph refers to the creation of a European Consumer Ombudsman in the European Ombudsman's office.
I don't believe that a new instrument would bring more efficiency in solving the complaints filed by European consumers.
In conclusion, I request the European Commission representatives to take into consideration Paragraph 7, by which we request the allocation of adequate funds to the consumer organizations across the European Union. (CS) Mr President, globalisation of our market requires strong, clear and easily enforceable consumer rights and I am happy to see the Commission making very successful efforts in this area.
However, I do not think that a European Consumer Ombudsman will help us a great deal.
I would like to express my appreciation of the work done by our rapporteur and that of the Commission on the reform of the consumer policy. (DE) Mr President, I intend to make my fellow Member Malcolm Harbour happy tomorrow by wearing my red suit to show him that the red corner really does know what it wants.
Let me agree with all of you in saying that if we would like to have a complete internal market, we need to stress the rights of consumers.
Let me mention that, in our 10 benchmarks, which we distributed, discussed and received more than 300 opinions about, half of these collective redress benchmarks were related not to having punitive damages compensated and not to being an expensive procedure.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 20 May 2008.
Not only is there a need for a more comprehensive legal framework for consumers' rights, but also we ought genuinely to take into consideration consumers' interests when completing the internal market standardisation.
It is obvious that a stronger, unique consumer protection system effective all over the Union is in the interest of all citizens.
We welcome therefore the call to establish a special European Consumer Ombudsman in the European Ombudsman's office on a country-by-country basis.
The report points out that a high level of protection for all consumers in the European Union can be achieved only through a horizontal approach - in other words with the help of sector-based directives aimed at harmonising national laws - and it also underscores the need to strengthen confidence among those same consumers.
That depends particularly on ensuring the safety of all products in circulation and the security of all transactions both in the realm of cross-border trade in services and in electronic commerce.
At the same time, I believe it would be useful to explore in greater depth, and in the light of different national experiences, the advantages and the limitations of such arrangements. , in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that the European Commission has made the protection of Europe's consumers one of its priorities with its proposed EU Consumer Policy strategy for 2007-2013.
