Explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) This Convention - which aims to set out the obligations of the Parties to assess the environmental impact of certain activities at an early stage of planning and imposes on States the general obligation regarding notification and consultation on all major projects that are likely to have a significant adverse environmental impact across borders - was signed by the Community and its Member States on 26 February 1991 and approved by the Community on 27 June 1997.
The following are symptomatic of this: i.
in writing. - (PT) The Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests and its protocols are on the list of conventions and protocols in the field of justice and home affairs contained in Annex I to the Act of Accession.
in writing. - (RO) Only one year after its establishment, in 2006, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is already requested.
In this instance, the fund is being used to assist approximately 900 workers made redundant in the automobile sector in France.
in writing. - (PT) In March 2007, France requested the mobilisation of the EGF in respect of the redundancies of 1 345 workers of Renault SA and 1 057 workers of Peugeot SA and their suppliers.
Thus we can see that this comes to EUR 1 902 for each of the Renault-linked workers made redundant and EUR 1 190 for each of the Peugeot-linked workers made redundant.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund came into being in 2006 under the considerable influence of the defeat of the constitutional referendum in France.
Too many European companies are facing the problem of restructuring, in the name of competitiveness in the global economy, for a Fund with an annual ceiling of EUR 500 million to be able to meet all needs.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which gives parliamentary support to the first ever distribution of funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which was established with strong PSE support to alleviate the effects of globalisation on workers.
We should have done better, and I am very sorry the other groups did not support us today. (HU) As a Member representing the Hungarian Democratic Forum (Magyar Demokrata Fórum - MDF), I will be using my vote to support both of these draft legislative texts providing for stricter regulations and greater control concerning the use of plant protection products.
I regret however, that here in Parliament, through the Greens and left-wing Members, preference was given to populist proposals such as a ban on pesticide use either in full or at a local level.
There is specific mention of national action plans in the context of a reduction in the frequency of application of pesticides by 25% over 5 years and by half - by 50% - over 10 years.
It is very important for the European Parliament to be tougher on this matter and have a greener approach than the European Commission.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Klaß on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for Community action to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides because it pursues the objective of reducing the use of plant protection products and contributes to high safety standards for humans, animals and the environment.
The Directive aims to reduce the risks associated with the use of plant protection products and on the environment and human health.
in writing. - (DE) The proposed Directive establishing a framework for Community action to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides is important, since alarming quantities of certain pesticides are still being found despite the existing framework regulations on soil, air and water.
The key to the sustainable use of plant protection products is rational risk limitation.
Pest management serves people and plant health and is not a warning sign for policy that has no scientific basis. (DE) Mr President, I believe we should be striving towards public health and consumer protection and I should like to offer my full support for these positions too.
I have voted against it and am of the opinion and am glad that a much more sensible and practical solution has been found in the Klaß report and therefore in the action plans, for which I was the rapporteur in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
For this reason I hope that we are also able to improve the Breyer report considerably at second reading, because we must improve it. (SV) A mixed message is being sent today.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Breyer on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market as it will help to ensure high safety standards for humans, animals and the environment by establishing strict but simplified procedures, and by rationalising resources.
in writing. - I voted for this report and am pleased that it combines the sustainable use of pesticides with effective health and environmental protection.
European legislation must absolutely take into account and support their requests to prevent their slow but inexorable disappearance from the market.
in writing. - (DE) Yesterday I was not able to make use of my speaking time.
The European Union's new policy on the use of pesticides is an important step towards better health and environmental protection.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting against the report because it has not been drawn up according to strictly scientific criteria and because I regard the zone model - in whatever version - as meaningless.
I have voted in favour of realistic targets for Member States while acknowledging the diverse nature of 27 Member States.
in writing. - (FR) As regards the reports on the placing of plant protection products on the market and the sustainable use of pesticides, I followed the very responsible line of my political group.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Klaß and Breyer reports on the use of pesticides because they signal progress towards better consideration of the impact on the environment and health of the use of plant protection products.
