&#160;&#160; The next item is the 2003 annual debate on progress in implementing the area of freedom, security and justice, on the basis of oral questions to the Council (B5-0005/2004) and the Commission (B5-0006/2004), on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
I would remind you that the vote on the motions for resolutions winding up the debate will be held during the second part-session in March. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, we are approaching the end of the five-year term established in Amsterdam.
New provisions of the Treaty of Nice will enter into force, and enlargement will expand the territory included in the area of freedom, security and justice.
The annual debate focuses on this area and this will also be the approach of the resolution that we are preparing for the end of March.
We argue that the Council should now start preparing seriously a Tampere II, a new European Summit specifically dedicated to the area of Justice and Home Affairs, in which this political assessment is undertaken in a serious and transparent way, without people harbouring reservations.
And we need this balance-sheet, one drawn up by all three elements of our institutional triangle, primarily so that we can then move ahead with political discernment and with new strategic direction.
We need a dynamic balance-sheet; one that assesses the current situation and reaches towards the future.
We realise that the area of freedom, security and justice is an entirely new concept and a new direction for the Union’s development.
It is therefore important to make a clear and positive assessment of the progress that has been made.
Hence, first of all, the future strategic importance that I attach to a more intense policy of providing information in this field.
To give a broad outline and without going into the details of the motion for a resolution that we are working on and without returning to the terms of the oral question – this will certainly be done by my fellow Members of other political hues – a general assessment could be made, ranging from ‘very positive’ as regards the progress made in cooperation in judicial and civil matters, to ‘almost total stagnation’ in the field of police cooperation, with ‘good’ and ‘bad’ or simply ‘tolerable’ in between, applied to the progress and delays in the fields of asylum and immigration and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
This is a message that can be drawn clearly from these last five years and in the debates that have taken place: unless, in the remaining areas covered by the intergovernmental method, open and effective cooperation between governments and all the national authorities involved does not progress at the pace that circumstances require, public opinion will exert direct pressure for these competences and fields to be brought gradually within the Community sphere of competence, in some cases for reasons of security, in others for reasons relating to individual freedoms.
In other words, if governments use their powers not only to fine-tune, adjust, calibrate and incorporate the principle of subsidiarity, but to block and hinder the development of this area of freedom, security and justice, they will be pursuing a very ill-advised approach.
By waiting for so long, they will ultimately lose everything, because there are few areas in which the citizens exert as much pressure as in this one and in which this pressure makes itself felt so markedly and so powerfully.
Nor can we compromise by refusing to discharge budgets because, as Romano Prodi, our President, has already said, all Union policies would suffer as a result, starting with the area of freedom, security and justice.
Significant progress was made on a whole range of JHA issues, including legislative measures and operational cooperation in compliance with the Tampere European Council Conclusions and the mandate from subsequent European Councils.
The measure of that progress can be seen in the fact that during that period the Council adopted nine regulations, five directives, three framework decisions, two conventions, several agreements with third countries, more than twenty decisions and more than thirty resolutions and conclusions.
Although the focus of the debate is on progress during 2003, you have framed your questions in the context of the significant events of this year and I will bear this in mind in my response.
The Irish presidency is very conscious of the significance of this year for the Union and also for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
The key objectives of our presidency are to make progress on the Amsterdam requirements and to take forward work on the extended Tampere programme.
In the context of asylum, the adoption of the Dublin II Regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining Member State responsibility for examining an asylum application, and the directive on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers, were major achievements.
However, despite the best efforts of the Italian and Greek presidencies, it was not possible to reach agreement on these proposals.
These proposals have been moved forward under successive presidencies and it will now fall to the Irish presidency to attempt to resolve the outstanding issues, in keeping with the requirements of the Tampere and the Amsterdam Treaty.
The Council also intends to move forward work on the directives on the condition of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, vocational training and voluntary services and for the purposes of research.
In the area of illegal immigration, the Council reached agreement on the directive on assistance in the case of transit for the purpose of removal by air and the decision on the organisation of joint flights.
The strengthening of border controls against illegal immigration will continue to be a Council priority in 2004.
The Council intends to continue work on the draft regulation establishing the European Agency for Management and Operational Cooperation at External Borders, in keeping with the conclusions on this proposal adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council in November.
I would also mention that readmission agreements were concluded by the Commission with Hong Kong and the agreement between the EU and Macao was signed.
Negotiations are ongoing in relation to readmission agreements with Morocco, Russia and Ukraine.
The Tampere European Council made mutual recognition the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters and specified a programme of measures for this purpose.
There has been steady progress in the area of judicial cooperation in civil law since then and 2003 was no exception.
Key measures adopted last year include the legal aid directive and the regulation on parental responsibility.
The Council also established a general approach on the proposed regulation creating a European enforcement order for uncontested claims.
Discussions will continue within the Council framework during 2004 on the proposed Rome II regulations on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, which also comes under the codecision procedure.
Your question also referred to the work of the Hague Conference on Private International Law.
In recent years, on the basis of negotiating mandates adopted by the Council, the Community has been able to participate actively in the work of the conference where there are matters under discussion which concern its competence.
The increased engagement of the Community with the Hague Conference is reflected in the fact that the Council has authorised the Commission to initiate negotiations with the Conference on the possible accession of the Community to that body.
In the area of criminal judicial cooperation, the Council made progress last year, both on measures aimed at promoting cooperation and measures in the area of mutual recognition.
Among the measures adopted were the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the framework decision on combating corruption in the private sector and the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
A decision to sign the agreements between the EU and the US on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters was also agreed last year.
As far as trafficking in human beings and third countries is concerned, the Brussels Declaration on Preventing and Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, endorsed by the Council last May, provides the basis for a comprehensive five-year work programme.
The Irish presidency will continue to support Commission initiatives to combat trafficking in human beings, bearing in mind the contents of that declaration and the work of the expert group on trafficking in human beings, which was established in 2003.
The remaining Member States are in the process of preparing the necessary legislation.
All the Member States share the view that Europol has a leading role to play in supporting the law enforcement agencies of the European Union in the fight against international organised crime and terrorism.
It is a key agency in promoting the effectiveness of, and cooperation between, the European law enforcement agencies.
The priority areas for Europol agreed by Council are drugs, euro counterfeiting, terrorism, trafficking in human beings – including illegal immigration – and financial crime.
Moreover, the police of the Member States cooperate closely to fight serious transnational crime on a daily basis.
Many operational successes have been achieved in recent years, for example, as regards drugs, terrorism, trafficking in human beings and child pornography.
Europol has regularly been involved in providing support for operations in accordance with the Europol Convention.
Last November, the JHA Council signed a protocol amending the Europol Convention which included several provisions aimed at improving the functioning of Europol.
Furthermore the Council adopted several instruments relating to the operational functioning of Europol, including the approval of a number of cooperation agreements between Europol and other states.
I would like to say a few words about the last steps to be taken before enlargement becomes a reality.
The Accession Treaty, which has been ratified by all the parties concerned, provides that, in general, acts relating to the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice will be applied to the new Member States from 1&#160;May 2004.
The acceding states will participate in Schengen-related measures on the lifting of internal border controls, including participation in the Schengen Information System, at a later stage, after 1 May 2004.
The Accession Treaty also includes a safeguard clause.
That provides that appropriate measures can be taken, up to 2007, if there are serious shortcomings or any imminent risks of such shortcomings in the transposition, state of implementation, or the application of legislative measures in certain areas of justice and home affairs.
I will conclude my comments by briefly addressing your question about making European Union business accessible to its citizens.
The Council acknowledges the importance of transparency in EU business.
It is worth noting that the regulation on public access to EU documents, adopted in 2001, promotes transparency and provides for greater participation of EU citizens in the decision-making process.
At present 55% of the approximately 450&#160;000 documents of the Council document register are directly accessible to the public on the Internet, in all the languages of the EU.
I hope that my comments have given you an overview of the achievements in the justice and home affairs area during 2003.
As regards legal immigration, the Commission has submitted several proposals to create the necessary legal framework.
The Council has already approved the proposal for a directive on family reunification and on the legal status of third-country citizens who are long-term residents.
I hope that by the end of this parliamentary term, we will also be in a position to adopt the proposal on victims of trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the authorities and who, therefore, have the right to a residence permit and also the proposals on allowing third-country students and researchers into the European Union.
At the same time, security issues have assumed considerable importance following the events of 11&#160;September 2001.
The Commission has already presented proposals on stepping up the security of some fundamental documents, such as visas and residence permits, by introducing biometric data and will, in a month’s time, present its proposal on including biometric data in the passports of EU citizens.
With regard to repatriation policy, the Commission is basically proposing, in the short term, actions on two fronts: one involving financial support, which still has to be discussed, and another on an initiative for minimum standards for repatriation procedures.
As the President-in-Office of the Council has already said, important legal instruments have been adopted in the field of asylum: temporary protection, minimum reception standards, the Dublin II regulation and the implementation of the Eurodac system, and the European Refugee Fund, which came to the end of its first phase having mobilised around EUR&#160;146&#160;million in the last four years.
The Commission is working actively with the United Nations High Commissioner on new ideas for asylum policy, particularly with a view to ensuring the more ordered and organised entry of refugees into the European Union, and the possibility of applying for asylum outside EU territory and also in order to increase protection in the regions in which crises originate.
It is, however, precisely in the everyday lives of normal people that most progress has been made under the Treaty of Amsterdam and under the Tampere programme and I sincerely hope that, by the end of this parliamentary term, we will be able to surmount any difficulties in approving the directive on compensating victims of crime.
As regards the external dimension, I wish to emphasise the fact that the Commission asked the Council for a mandate that would enable the Community to formally sign up to the Hague Conference on Private International Law, in order better to ensure that the process of including judicial cooperation in civil matters within the Community framework is consistent with what is being done under the Hague Conference conventions.
The Commission will soon present a framework decision on procedural safeguards and we are convinced that the initiative we will be taking in June this year to present a framework decision on minimum rules for data protection, under the third pillar, will be equally significant.
Judicial cooperation in criminal matters and strengthening mechanisms for police and judicial cooperation in the fight against crime must, at the same time, be accompanied by rules for minimum procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings in all Member States and for the protection of privacy and personal data in this field.
The Commission has launched awareness-raising campaigns on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, on some of the legislative instruments that we have adopted and which might have a more direct impact on citizens’ lives.
To be quite honest, however, I think the most reliable snapshot will be provided by the elections to the European Parliament, embodied by the Members of this Parliament – and you can pride yourselves on what you have achieved in this parliamentary term in the field of Justice and Home Affairs – since these are the best interpreters of the information that the citizens have the right to know, because they prove that European democracy works and that the issues of concern for the daily lives of the citizens are taken seriously by the bodies of the European Union, starting with their legitimate representatives, the Members of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, anyone who simply reads the progress report on the last year will be surprised by just how much progress we have made in the area of security, and you, Mr&#160;President-in-Office and Mr&#160;Vitorino, together with the European Parliament, can be proud of how much things have moved on as regards security.
For one thing, the Eurodac system became operational in January last year.
The first thing I would like to say is this: I think it is essential that the current presidency's ambition to implement the status and procedures directive in the first part of this year, that is by April, should be achieved in the interest of a common asylum policy.
In the interests of stability in the new Member States, it is vital for us to step up the fight against corruption in those states, and we must help them to reach the Schengen standard at the new external borders as quickly as possible.
That is in the interests both of the new Member States and of the European Union as a whole.
Rest assured that we in the European Parliament will do our utmost to support you, even when it comes to the increase in the budget that will undoubtedly be needed if we are actually to achieve the successes that we wish to see in the interests of security. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is true that the progress referred to by the rapporteur and the representatives of the Council and the Commission&#160;–&#160;whom I congratulate&#160;–&#160;has been made, but it must be admitted that that progress is not sufficient.
Indeed, the most serious obstacle today to the development of the area of freedom, security and justice is the failure to adopt the draft Constitutional Treaty which, by making the Charter of Fundamental Rights binding in every sector of the Union’s activities and extending the Community method to include judicial, criminal and police cooperation, would have resolved many of the problems that still remain.
In fact, the very governments, which at Tampere approved a reasonable raft of measures, subsequently often fail to adopt them when those measures are proposed by the Commission and requested by Parliament.
The delays and inconsistencies, however, which have been most noticeable on the part of the Council and Member States, are those in relation to the promotion and protection of fundamental individual rights.
Measures are being adopted which, in fact, fail to respect fundamental rights with the result that Parliament is forced to bring such measures before the Court of Justice, the most recent example being family reunification.
The time has certainly come to adopt more effective measures in order to protect the rights of our citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although this is an annual stocktaking we are close to the five-year assessment of the achievements of the Tampere programme and thought now needs to be given to Tampere II.
But where is the solidarity in the disgraceful way that, one after another, 13 Member States have signalled they will impose restrictions on free movement from new Eastern Member States?
States have been more zealous about toughening borders and deporting illegal immigrants and on making sure immigrants are legal and integrated.
The Council passed a grudging directive on long-term immigrants and one on family reunification.
The challenge to integrate the Roma looms large on our agenda.
In the area of anti-terrorism and law enforcement, there has been much useful activity, but a lack of balance in concern for civil liberties, democratic accountability and transparency.
I am delighted the European Police College will be located in England, but less impressed that the UK Government, with 12 citizens and residents in Guantanamo Bay – half the total of Europeans there – has failed to take the lead in getting a common position and joint action by the European Union to persuade the US to apply international law and uphold prisoners' rights there.
The UN Secretary-General did not greet us with polite and hackneyed words of thanks, no, he really read the riot act to Europe over its immigration policy.
There are people who bear responsibility for this silent human rights crisis.
If all these proposals are given force of law, the only way to have any chance of applying for asylum in the European Union will be to jump from a plane over the EU with a parachute.
Only in Germany are refugees penalised if they leave their or rural district.
Proposals for an EU asylum and immigration policy founded on a high level of respect for human rights are on the table, but they need to be accepted before we can have a genuine debate on progress here.
What we need in Europe is a right of asylum in accordance with the Geneva Convention, including recognition of gender-specific and non-State persecution as grounds for granting refugee status, together with recognition of desertion and conscientious objection to military service as grounds.
We need a European legal area for campaigns to legalise the status of people without papers, and last but not least we also need a right to freedom of movement for all people living in the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, despite all our efforts the Tampere agenda will not be complied with, especially on the matter of immigration and asylum.
A lot of Commission proposals are currently pending in the Council.
The few measures that have been taken are constantly criticised and the directive on family reunification is the subject of an action by our Parliament before the Court of Justice.
Not only does our old continent need these workers, but the only way we will have credibility in the world is by affirming an open, pluralist Europe that shows solidarity.
We are convinced that freedom of movement together with a positive policy of legal immigration will enable us to apply the brake to trafficking, especially trafficking in human beings.
Having said that, those two directives must also and in particular bring an added value capable of guaranteeing asylum seekers a better level of protection.
In a communication on the transfer of data, published by the Commission on 16&#160;December and forwarded to the Council and the Parliament, concerning the agreement concluded between the United States and ourselves, we find a security gaffe under the cover of the fight against terrorism and crime.
The agreement would in fact allow the data fields transferred to include date of birth, number of persons travelling together, credit card details, racial or ethnic origin and political, religious or philosophical beliefs.
Such measures affect both Europeans and third country nationals, as you said, Mr Vitorino.
Finally and to conclude, how are we going to be able to guarantee respect for our fundamental rights if we sign an agreement with a country like the United States, which is constantly showing its desire for hegemony, conducts a unilateral policy and puts itself above the law, including above international law, as in the situation of the prisoners in Guantanamo Bay?
It is therefore of the utmost importance that all Member States in the European Union cooperate more closely to combat the threat of international terrorism and organised crime.
With common European borders in existence and with the free movement of people within the Union, we too must cooperate more closely in an effort to stop drug imports into Europe and to combat the evil of human trafficking.
This challenge becomes even greater as enlargement takes place, and Europol will have to play a more pivotal role in coordinating the European Union's response to these rising crimes.
That is why a comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration must remain a key priority of our Union.
The borders agency is putting in place a coordinated approach by EU Member States to combat illegal immigration.
I too support the implementation of a common EU asylum policy, and we must resolve the outstanding issues concerning asylum qualifications and procedures directives.
According to the Commission, Member States must abandon their reservations before the five-year period specified in the Treaty of Amsterdam has lapsed, by which time, according to the Commission, these measures should be adopted.
Although this is correct, a five-year period for measures in this area was very short indeed.
We heard the President-in-Office of the Council give us some amazing statistics in relation to the transparency of the Council’s work, tens of thousands of documents.
There is absolutely no reference whatsoever to , although for six months the Italian Presidency has reminded us that in the field of judicial cooperation the concept of is a pillar on which citizens can rely.
In addition, the French and British Members are currently opposed to such a Community position on Europol.
Yes, but about what? &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the historical factors that have brought us to this juncture, so well explained by Commissioner Vitorino, clearly justify this debate.
It would indeed be hard to understand if, in the last debate evaluating the area of freedom, security and justice in this mandate, we should confine ourselves to holding what is merely an annual debate.
I welcome the fact that, in its work programme, the Irish Presidency considers developing this area to be its top priority and I hope that we will be able to develop fruitful interinstitutional cooperation.
I acknowledge that the task we have set ourselves is enormous and extremely ambitious, but unless the pace picks up and the Council’s decision-making ability is increased, we will reach the end of this five-year period having failed to meet the objectives set out in Tampere.
Lastly, Mr President, we must deplore the initiative adopted by some Member States to send a letter to the Commission to persuade it to impose a substantial reduction of the Community budget in the financial perspectives for the period 2007-2013.
As a Liberal politician with a fundamental belief in the basic freedoms upon which our democracies are based, I also think that 2003 is the time for some basic reflections upon the initiatives that have already been implemented and, especially, that are being planned under the overall heading of security.
More specifically, I am thinking, for example, of third countries being permitted direct access to personal data in central reservation systems for air passengers, the introduction of armed marshals on aircraft and the introduction of biometric data into the travel documents of third-country citizens and into the passports of all EU citizens.
Quite a few of these initiatives involve very extensive intrusions into the sanctity of private life, raising as yet unsolved issues in relation to current legislation on data safety and the risks of data being misused.
In this area, I am concerned that the Commission was not even in a position to inform me, as rapporteur, about the biometric data required of third-country citizens and about the precise numbers of visa applicants, falsified travel documents etc.
These opportunities are being reduced day by day.
Fortress Europe involves neither freedom, nor security nor justice.
The Commission’s comprehensive monitoring report, published in November 2003, offers an ironic warning, observing as it does that the level of corruption is still high, indeed very high, and that this may have repercussions for people’s confidence in public administration and the judicial system.
It seems to me that Tampere was very well balanced from the point of view of rights and duties, status and control.
It is quite clear from the list of the various measures, operations and agreements you have given us today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that those measures are all concerned solely with security; that makes me extremely worried because I see some members of the Council being truly diabolical in their thinking.
What really worries me is that I feel that the decisions being taken today in the Council or more appropriate formats –&#160;decisions by 5, or by 5+5, depending, at any rate on formulae that are seldom very clearly democratic&#160;– are an attack on democracy and the European project.
In asking the Court of Justice to annul the decision on family reunification, the European Parliament is sending you a clear message that the Council is exceeding the bounds of democracy and I think if I were in your shoes I would want to take heed of that very strong warning from the European Parliament.
It would do well, with all associations, European civil society and all parliamentarians who stand up for rights, international conventions and democracy, to really cause that outbreak to happen so that in future all decisions are taken in a spirit of parliamentary co-decision as desired in the draft Constitution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is unfortunate that at present, the area of freedom, security and justice is raising more questions than certainties.
In fact, the word ‘regress’ has been mentioned in certain areas.
The guarantee of fundamental rights springs to mind.
At the moment, a great deal of attention is being paid to the way in which the future Member States deal with this, with good reason, while in Belgium, the freedom of speech, freedom of the press and the freedom of association is being curbed.
Soon, in Belgium, the so-called heart of the European Union, an entire party is at risk of disappearing, one that comprises some fifty MPs and which, according to the latest surveys, is backed by 20% of the electorate.
This is all done under the auspices of a Prime Minister who aspires to become President of the Commission.
Commissioner Vitorino on the other hand has tried over the last few years to push forward a more imaginative agenda with a wider framework.
I believe very strongly that without a system of legal migration into the European Union – something like the green card system that the United States has in place – we will continue to face the challenge of illegal immigration with all its problems.
But I am also absolutely convinced that this must be done in a manner that is positive both for EU countries and for the countries of origin.
This is why I urge the Commissioner and the Council to press on with this very difficult work in an important area – a structured programme for planned migration for a European Union of 25 countries and more. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the near future, freedom, security and justice will be particularly crucial areas in view of the different approaches that the new and existing Member States have towards such problems.
In Italy, today, there is a desire to return to the legal and political culture of the Middle Ages, permanently overcome in the western world by the abolition of immunities and privileges, sanctioned in 1789 by the French States General.
We list the texts in preparation and, as usual, we regret that the Commission’s ideas are not advancing fast enough.
Obviously, I am thinking of harmonisation in the loosest sense and the abolition of internal border controls.
Commissioner Vitorino will no doubt reply that this is the proof that we need to go further with communitisation.
Well, no, Commissioner, because that communitisation would disconnect the system from the peoples even more and weaken the security imperatives even further.
In this context, we look forward anxiously to 1 May 2004, which will give new powers to the Commission, relaunch the process of further downward harmonisations and continue putting in place a system that is remote from the people.
I congratulate them for protecting their citizens this way and encourage them to continue, because the decisions of Amsterdam and Nice in this area were irresponsible.
We need to change our priorities completely, put a stop to harmonisation where it lowers our defences and give pride of place to security. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is with great interest that I have followed the debate, which tended to give an assessment not only of this year but of this parliamentary term as a whole as regards the field of freedom, security and justice.
It is the declared intention of the majority of Member States –&#160;unfortunately not all of them&#160;– to extend and consolidate the area of freedom, security and justice in response to an increasingly explicit desire on the part of European citizens to pave the way to solidarity and extend the areas of cooperation in relation to the reception of new waves of immigrants, smoothing out the inconsistencies that still exist with regard to the recognition of the right to asylum, citizenship and establishment in any EU country.
I am pleased that this attitude can be traced back to the tremendous incentive provided by the demands contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights for European citizens, which was launched in Nice in 2000 and waiting to be included in the Constitution.
It is a document that can be compared to good wine: at first it did not make much impression being rather weak and imperfect but, with the passage of time, the intrinsic quality of the text increasingly emerges wherein we find precise reference points for all the choices and measures required of us in this difficult phase of our history.
A further step forward will be achieved by approval at second reading of the directive on the free movement of Community citizens, their rights and responsibilities, of which I am rapporteur.
Almost all the political groups have accepted the rapporteur’s request not to table amendments to the text issued by the Council, in which only 50% of Parliament’s requests are included.
Without doubt progress has been made under the difficult conditions which the different cultures and approaches of the Member States created in the Council.
And this certainly is not in keeping with everything we maintain about a Europe of humanitarian values and respect for human rights.
I think that this failure is due to the lack of essential operational cooperation between the police authorities in the Member States on combating this phenomenon which is an insult to our civilisation.
We hope, Commissioner, that new ideas and a new strategy will be put forward for Tampere ΙΙ. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, despite the many measures which the European Union has taken, ranging from Europol's competences to issuing a European arrest warrant, I notice that on the ground, few, if any, results are being achieved in the area of freedom, security and justice.
Statistics show that crime is on the rise in various Member States.
Certainly now with enlargement around the corner, anxious citizens are right to question whether the European Union can offer sufficient guarantees in order to safeguard their security.
After all, it is the government's principal task to guarantee the security of their citizens under all circumstances.
In fact, what are we waiting for before we implement a global action plan with the intention of removing all illegal immigrants from the EU's territory?
For as long as we have no firm grip on illegal immigration, there will be no real area of freedom, security and justice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the fundamental objectives of the Union include the guarantee of an area of freedom, security and justice for its citizens.
The citizens of the Union must be able to move freely within the EU, and at the same time we have to step up the fight against crime.
The Schengen Convention is an important step forward in the area of free movement.
As soon as their membership begins, the new Member States will be able to participate in the first stage of the Schengen process, which will prepare them for full Schengen membership.
During the first stage there will still be internal border checks on the frontiers between the new and the old Member States.
The updating of the Schengen information system will have to be expedited so that any possible technical defects in the Union’s information systems do not prevent the new Member States from moving on to stage two.
There have to be increased levels of cooperation between the authorities in the EU Member States in the prevention of, and fight against, crime.
Cooperation based on conventions is outdated and a slow process in today’s EU.
In the meantime shortcomings in levels of cooperation and the flow of information between authorities are an obstacle to solving and preventing crime effectively.
The Union has to develop new legal instruments to meet today’s demands regarding cooperation between Member States more effectively.
We now require initiatives and action from the Member States and the Commission to achieve better levels of coordination.
The EU in its present form offers the potential for fuller cooperation.
Together we can do more if there is the will among Member States to combat crime. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in reality, it is the Council alone that should be blamed for the delay in adopting fundamental measures in the field of asylum and immigration.
We must also talk about the general aim of putting the conditions in place for an ordered entry into the European Union for those who are without international protection, but the fact is that another important directive on the procedures that the Member States should implement to grant refugee status ultimately fell by the wayside.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council of 27 and 28 November abandoned its quest for a political agreement on these two pieces of legislation that are crucial to the first phase of harmonising the common asylum system, and decided to postpone their adoption until the end of 2004.
Fortunately, not everything has ended in inertia or deadlock.
We must praise the attitude of the Commission and the commitment of Commissioner Vitorino, which were demonstrated in the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme of technical and financial assistance to third countries in the field of migration and asylum, an instrument that will enable us to address the needs felt by these countries in their efforts to ensure that migration flows are better managed.
Nor must we overlook the fact that the Draft Constitution of the European Convention provides for a genuine common European asylum system and an immigration policy, which will enable us to abandon the current system of minimum rules in which Member States retain a large part of their national systems.
Unfortunately, even this crucial historical area is compromised, and so we can only conclude that 2003 was a year in which there was a keen awareness of the needs, and of providing the appropriate means, areas in which the Commission and Parliament did what was asked of them.
Given that we are discussing that today, and that we will soon be reaching the end of this parliamentary term, it is fair to say that we have achieved a great deal working together with you.
Not only have we made demands on you as a Commissioner, you have also made demands of us as a Parliament at times.
For that reason we can say that we have all achieved a great deal together under the existing arrangements, bearing in mind how difficult it is under those arrangements to really achieve something when you have 15 Member States with 15 different viewpoints.
There are, of course, many problems.
We need improved international measures in order to be able to deal with this problem more effectively in the countries of origin.
We cannot ignore 11&#160;September 2001.
We should not, however, forget that in all these areas data protection and civil rights achievements should not be overlooked.
While listening to the Commissioner and to the Minister listing the legislation that has been brought in, particularly in the area of immigration and asylum, I know both men have warm hearts, but in the description of all the legislation that was coming through, the quality of mercy seemed to be lacking in some way.
The contribution that the visitors who have come to live amongst us have made to life in many of our countries must be recognised and celebrated.
Mention was made, particularly by the Commissioner, to some of the civil judicial areas that have come through in the last year, many of which contribute considerably to the quality of life of our citizens.
My own area of particular interest is the protection of children, as well as the question under the Brussels II Convention of access to and custody of children in parental disputes.
We have situations where, for example, it appears to be perfectly easy and legal for a custodial parent in Germany to change the name of the children – the children very often bearing the father's name – without any reference to the father.
Unfortunately, despite great efforts by myself and many others, these fathers are finding it extremely difficult to gain access to their children.
Readmission agreements should become a new feature of the Union’s relationships with third countries.
Finally, I should like to point out that in the course of this last year, the size of the very substantial financial flows generated by immigrants’ remittances to their home countries has been much in the limelight.
Mr President, I want to thank very sincerely the Members of this House for the honour they have conferred on me in hearing me today and also for the very comprehensive and wide range of opinions that have been expressed here.
I do not agree with every opinion, but I have listened intently to the debate and am conscious of the fact that if I were to mention all the contributors, the short time available to me for reply would be completely exhausted – that is before I even address the very important issues that many of them raised and the very important themes which recurred in the contributions.
It will be for Commissioner Vitorino to come to the June Council with his retrospective look at what has been achieved in the time period contemplated by the Amsterdam Treaty and to set the scene, if he will, for a Tampere II agenda, the starting process for which will be developed under the Netherlands presidency.
For Ireland and its presidency, on the contrary, it is a matter of addressing the issues that are still outstanding on the agenda and concentrating its efforts in relation to them.
Mention has been made of the slow progress in relation to the two major Amsterdam imperatives: the directives in relation to asylum.
In relation to one of them – the Asylum Procedures Directive – I have to say that even if I have political agreement on that issue before 1 May, my successor will have to come back to the newly elected European Parliament to achieve the necessary codecision.
However, in relation to all these measures, a lot of time has elapsed, and I agree with a number of Members who express a sense of frustration that the deadlines set at Amsterdam and Tampere have not been adhered to at political level.
I want to echo a number of contributions here that remind us that the fight against crime, for instance, is a positive struggle to enhance and vindicate the rights of people who would otherwise be victims of crime.
The main thing the European Union can do in relation to terrorism is not at paper level, but in the area of pragmatic, concrete cooperation on a day-to-day basis between the various agencies in the Member States and the European agencies, to make sure that the scourge of terrorism does not destroy the area of freedom, security and justice that we are building.
So we can never simply consider these matters on a legislative or paper policy basis.
That also has to be said in relation to Europol.
In my view that approach is appropriate in some areas where it is important to create a political agenda and to create a legal framework for certain areas of progress; but we should also be very conscious that we cannot simply legislate for security, freedom and justice.
I believe that very substantial progress has been made in these areas so far, but there is a lot more to be done, particularly in relation to the protection of ordinary people's rights: the right not to be exploited sexually or, for instance, the right to have access to one's children.
Mr Hernández Mollar referred to the issue of terrorism and the commemoration of the victims of terrorism.
It is fashionable to say that the Justice and Home Affairs Council concentrates on combating illegal immigration and that there is not sufficient emphasis on legal migration and its implications, such as integration and the like.
Societies that can deal with migration positively and without fear are societies that are, as a consequence, much richer and more just internally.
I believe that whether such progress is made quickly or slowly, it is a very important task for the Irish presidency to make as much progress as possible in bringing together the Member States behind the drive to implement a new constitutional treaty for the European Union.
There has been an undercurrent of concern in this morning's debate about the lack of transparency and a sense of the lack of consultation with and exclusion of Parliament in the Justice and Home Affairs area.
I have already mentioned the level of consultation that exists at the moment.
The flexibility and the willingness of Member States to make concessions, once they had established a position on paper, could be significantly impaired if every single action in the deliberative process was to be thrown open to the widest possible scrutiny.
I want to thank each and every Member for the very constructive and stimulating debate.
I gather from his response that he is also in favour of this suggestion, to which the Commissioner immediately agreed.
I endorse and support this clear priority, but it would also be valuable if the presidency and the Council could give a clear signal to the next presidency, namely the Luxembourg Presidency, that Tampere II is in a position to go ahead.
When we discuss asylum and migration on behalf of the Commission, I would like to stress that all our proposals were totally in line with the goals decided upon by the heads of state and government in Tampere.
The Commission has tried to achieve this balance through a very broad set of proposals.
I recognise before the House that in some cases the degree of the Commission's ambition has not been matched by the Council.
We should be proactive and voluntarist and try to mobilise citizens to do even more and better in the near future.
In the field of civil liberties, there is permanent tension between the guarantee of fundamental rights and the guarantee of security.
I remind you of the fact that when we talk about reinforcing our external border security and guaranteeing our internal security, we do it, not in a repressive way, but in the name of freedom.
It is in the name of freedom that we say we should be more efficient in integrating legal migrants.
To be frank with you, when we talk about introducing biometrics in some travel documents, we need to be very careful in guaranteeing that we are proportionate in the kind of data that we choose, in the types of data storage systems and in the types of control and supervision carried out by the necessary authorities.
My argument is to draw your attention to the fact that today data protection in the third pillar is under the full authority and responsibility of Member States.
We are trying to create a level playing field at European level to guarantee that in all 25 Member States there will be the same pattern of protection of personal data when it comes to law enforcement.
As you will see in the proposals that the Commission presented yesterday for the new financial perspectives for 2007-2013, the area of freedom, security and justice has been given the adequate financial tools to address our ambitious goals.
I shall highlight three main issues: first, being fair in assessing the shortcomings and the unfinished business of Tampere I – there will be the heritage from Tampere I that should be taken on board in Tampere II; second, clear objectives are set out in the constitutional treaty – Tampere II should closely follow the agenda that was defined in that treaty; and last but not least, Tampere II should focus more adequately on the quality of the transposition of European legislation in this area at national level, and on monitoring concrete implementation of the in the 25 Member States.
The subject is very topical in the light of everything that is going on with regard to Iraq, Iran, North Korea and, in the past few weeks, Pakistan with the so-called Khan affair.
As I have already stated, a consultation will also be held at the end of April about the workings of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
To us Social Democrats, there are guiding principles that apply in respect of that discussion: we are in favour of a multilateral approach because there are no unilateral solutions to the problems that face us.
The recognised nuclear weapons powers, as we call them, should set the right example, and we continue to set great store by a total ban on nuclear trials.
The risks appear to be increasing, even in the former Soviet Union.
We are actually able to conclude that Iran is now more or less adhering to the agreements of the NPT.
However, 34 years after it entered into force, we are in a situation where the United States is willing to launch pre-emptive nuclear strikes, where the UK refused to rule out the use of nuclear weapons in Iraq, where research and development and the testing of nuclear weapons continue, where nuclear weapons are still considered a vital part of Nato defence planning, where new generations of battlefield nuclear weapons are developed and where the nuclearisation of space is well under way.
The European Union has a duty to take a leading role in this and to ensure that real action is taken.
Nuclear weapons make the world more insecure and dangerous.
On 12 December 2003 the European Council adopted an EU strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The strategy incorporates and bases itself on the texts adopted by the European Council at Thessaloniki in June 2003.
The EU believes that all our efforts should be aimed at preserving and strengthening this fundamental instrument of international peace and security.
The EU supports wholeheartedly the objectives laid down in the Treaty and is committed to the effective implementation of the final document of the 2000 NPT review conference and the decisions and resolution adopted at the 1995 Review and Extension Conference.
However, there are three countries – India, Israel and Pakistan – that remain outside the regime and we continue to call upon them to accede unconditionally to the NPT as non-nuclear weapon states.
On 17 November 2003 the Council adopted a common position on the universalisation and reinforcement of multilateral agreements in the field of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery.
Fourthly, it will support the final document of the 2000 NPT review conference and the decisions and resolution adopted at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference.
Finally, it will promote measures to ensure that any possible misuse of civilian nuclear programmes for military purposes will be effectively excluded.
The European Union will continue to encourage all efforts to implement Article VI of the NPT, as well as paragraphs 3 and 4c of the 1995 Declaration on 'Principles and Objectives for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament' and the practical steps agreed in the 2000 final document.
Pending its entry into force, we urge all states with nuclear capacity to abide by a moratorium on nuclear test explosions or any other nuclear explosions and refrain from any actions which are contrary to the CTBT.
The EU also continues to attach great importance to the fight against terrorism and strongly supports all measures that are aimed at preventing terrorists from acquiring nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.
The WMD strategy emphasises the EU’s commitment to strengthening export control policies and practices within its borders and beyond, in coordination with partners.
The EU will work towards improving the existing export control mechanisms.
The question of the International Mayors’ Campaign has not been considered by the Council.
This work will take place in the first instance within the Working Group on Non-Proliferation and in its troika meetings with third countries.
The work will include the preparation of EU common statements on various aspects of the Treaty for delivery by the presidency at the preparatory committee.
It provides – as the House will know – a legal ban on nuclear proliferation beyond the five nuclear weapons states recognised by the Treaty and makes nuclear proliferation activity illegal in the international community.
With it came the principle of regulated nuclear trade, the concept of nuclear safeguards and, of course, the International Atomic Energy Authority, whose excellent work underpins the regime.
There may well be shortcomings in the non-proliferation regime but they are certainly not terminal and they can, in our judgment, be addressed.
We must continue to pursue the universal adoption of the NPT by countries that have so far refused to do so, and in particular India, Pakistan and Israel.
In this context, the Commission's role is first in assisting the presidency, which sees progress in this area as a high priority, and second in encouraging the maximum degree of EU coordination.
This strategy is now being followed up by concrete action.
The first was last November’s adoption by the General Affairs and External Relations Council of a text aimed at mainstreaming non-proliferation policies into the European Union’s wider relations with third countries, among other things, by introducing a non-proliferation clause in agreements with them.
This new commitment on non-proliferation is important, because the new EU strategy aims to include provisions on non-proliferation in all agreements with third countries.
These projects, which are implemented by the Commission in close cooperation with a number of Member States, are a small but important part of the Community’s EUR 1&#160;billion contribution to the G8 Global Partnership, launched at the meeting in 2002 in Canada.
The Interparliamentary Conference hosted by the Commission under the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Cooperation Initiative on 20 and 21 November 2003, which took place here in Strasbourg, highlighted the considerable future challenges ahead if we are to safely dispose of the dangerous remains of Cold War WMD programmes.
For the WMD threat to be removed it must become and remain a high priority issue for national governments, regional organisations and the international community as a whole.
From a Community perspective, we are grateful for the increased attention given by the European Parliament to the need to adequately fund threat-reduction activities in the next budget cycle.
The Commission, in cooperation with the European Parliament, is seeking to define future non-proliferation priorities and, thanks to a recent decision by Parliament, will be able shortly to launch a pilot project to further this work.
What the EU must do at the forthcoming meeting is, of course, to demand that these commitments be met.
The nuclear powers have certainly reduced their strategic nuclear arsenals.
Moreover, the United States has revised its nuclear weapons policy so as to be able to use its nuclear weapons, and not only in war but also for so-called preventive purposes.
This amounts to a serious breach of international law.
To engage in war for preventive reasons is a breach of the UN Charter and a return to the law of the jungle, that is to say the right of the strong, applicable before the advent of the United Nations, to intervene for their own purposes.
The US, Russia and France have all made a start on preparing a new generation of nuclear weapons.
As tension mounts between it and the US, Saudi Arabia is now also choosing the nuclear option.
We should be pleased and encouraged, but the truth is that things are, in actual fact, heading in all but the wrong direction when it comes to nuclear disarmament and the possibility of obtaining such an area of freedom, security and justice.
One of the reasons why things are heading in the wrong direction is that there is an unwillingness to comply not just with the words, but also with the spirit, of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
For the moment, it is clear that we cannot expect support from the Americans in this matter.
They are in the throes of doing almost the opposite of what they have committed themselves to doing.
We would like to know, in relation to the Council Working Group on Nuclear Weapons, what the priorities are for the NPT PrepCom meeting.
The Council should prepare regular progress reports on this issue for Parliament, in particular on the issues of the dismantling of nuclear weapons arsenals, nuclear weapon-free zones and the no first-strike option.
The Council has to prepare a statement on the progress made by the EU since the report in 1995 by this Parliament on the NPT and, indeed, the many resolutions since then.
Indeed, hypocrisy is quite clearly spreading in this case; after all, since the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the number of countries with nuclear material has risen continually.
First with the help of France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany; everyone has helped create this bomb, and we are now complaining that Israel remains outside of the zone because, of course, the United States does not want to force that country to accept non-proliferation.
I hope that you will vote for enforceable measures and will take a stand against fine statements that send our people to sleep, because they are wide awake. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not share the optimism of either the Council or the Commission on this.
According to commitments made at the Sixth NPT Review Conference, all nuclear states made an unequivocal undertaking to accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament.
These are undoubtedly ambitious aims, but if we are serious about the threats posed by weapons of mass destruction, this the route we have to take. &#160;&#160; – The joint debate is closed.
The delegation is headed by Mr Alfredo Atanasof, a Member of the Argentinian Parliament and Chairman of the Mercosur&#160;Joint&#160;Parliamentary&#160;Committee.
If 32 Members object to the oral amendment, it falls. &#160;&#160; Should the oral amendment not be taken after the vote on the amendment, because they are amending the paragraph, rather than the amendment I tabled? &#160;&#160; If we vote on the oral amendment, the revised Amendment No 15 will fall, because it is incorporated in the oral amendment.
We welcome your group of visitors from Lombardia, and your daughter, Elisabetta. &#160;&#160; . – In the Garot report on trends in agricultural incomes in the European Union, the European Parliament is by implication beginning to complain about the future consequences of the Fischler reform, even though it agreed to it itself.
The Parliament is now realising that preserving farmers’ incomes and maintaining the presence of a healthy agriculture in all the countries of Europe require remunerative prices based on production costs and adequate external protection (paragraph 12).
The rapporteur says he wants to distance himself from that policy and protect farmers, especially small farmers, in every region of the European Union, even the most remote.
We are also against the protectionist aspects of the policy advocated by this report because protectionism is a direct attack on the incomes of many farmers in third countries, including poor countries, and because it is harmful to consumers.
A recent study by the development organisation Oxfam shows that EU agricultural subsidies in Great Britain mainly benefit large landowners.
Between 1995 and 2002, agricultural incomes rose by 7%, but at the same time, the number of farms fell by 15.7%.
The rapporteur is, above all, anxious about farms that produce little but do receive support.
The report does not, however, take sufficient account of the restrictions that govern the funding of the Common Agricultural Policy.
While overall agricultural income increased by 7% between 1995 and 2002, this result was obtained at the cost of an 18% reduction in the number of farms.
We have seen the social costs of this phenomenon for Portuguese farmers, who have been forced to abandon or to modify the activities that they have always carried out.
These farms only account for 59% of the land and 25% of jobs in the sector.
The situation is politically and socially unacceptable and explains the behaviour of some Member States wishing to maintain their privileges under the CAP.
Examination of the reality of rural life in Member States, however, reveals, in many cases, that farmers are dependent either on public aid or on the fluctuations of prices and markets, leading to a feeling of insecurity, and, in turn, to low levels of investment in modernisation and in crop diversification.
The aims of ‘competitiveness’ and ‘multifunctionality’ must be made compatible, thereby ensuring a minimum level of security for those involved in farming, as well as confidence in a fair standard of living and in the stability of income.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; . – I voted in favour of the Garot report in recognition of the merits of an initiative which for once has enabled us to debate one of the fundamental questions affecting the preservation of our agricultural model: our farmers’ incomes.
This debate has enabled us to break with the fragmentary and technical approaches normally forced on us when examining the flood of legislative proposals emanating from the Commission.
My approval therefore clearly does not apply to the references to decoupling and to rural development contained in the Garot report. &#160;&#160; With this report we are still in the field of agriculture.
The food and animal-health crises that have befallen the EU have shown the unsustainability of the current agricultural model established under the CAP.
In order to develop sustainable farming culture, it is, therefore, important that we develop, implement and fund agricultural research that takes account of the significance of agriculture both for the development of rural areas and for the production of high-quality food.
Other areas in which research is crucial are GM crops and biotechnology.
The rapporteur therefore calls for the use of funds from the Sixth Framework Programme for research to support projects and initiatives in the general framework of agriculture and rural development, bearing in mind the considerable potential, in the area of food science and the development of produce, to boost local production and local economies.
In view of the most recent developments in the sector, such as the transition to multifunctionality, I believe that rural development should be accorded the priority it deserves, and the use of funds from the Sixth Framework Programme for research may help in this regard.
The institutions must contribute not only towards making it increasingly possible to trace a product’s progress ‘from farm to fork’ but also towards making certain specialised agricultural activities, such as organic farming, more commercial.
In terms of traceability, hygiene control and quality of ingredients, considerable investment is still required in order to raise quality levels and to maintain competitiveness.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Indeed, I voted in favour of this report on the recognition of professional qualifications because its aim is to have doctors who are European doctors – recognised as such throughout Europe – European lawyers, European accountants, European architects.
The draft Directive, by not setting out explicitly that in order to recognise professional qualifications training must be based ... &#160;&#160; . – The report on the recognition of European qualifications extends the possibilities for the provision of services and harmonises qualifications in order to increase the mobility and free movement of labour in Europe.
It seeks to give a service provider’s customer a guarantee of the quality of the work provided and to enable him to find the person responsible if he is not satisfied with the service and to insure him against risks.
But there is nothing in this text about the rights conferred by recognised qualifications, nothing about the guarantees offered, nothing about the harmonisation of status and working conditions, nothing about improving the conditions of training.
We are in favour of a harmonisation of qualifications that is indissolubly linked to a definition of status, working conditions and social commitments in terms of wages and social protection, because that would make for a mobility that would encourage improved living and working conditions in all European countries.
Introducing a reference to surveyors into this directive would confer recognition on a profession which exists only in the United Kingdom and in Ireland, and whose members are not involved in the designing of buildings.
The compromise contains a time-based points system, with quality points being awarded to each training course.
In addition, in a compromise, the rights and duties have been tightened up of those professions that involve extra care duty to protect the consumer, by means of compulsory registration and insurance in the case of a temporary provision of services in another Member State.
It would in fact have been preferable to have a supple and flexible mechanism that takes account of developments in university degree courses when setting the number of years’ training for specialists.
Finally, I voted against Amendment No 156, which does not clarify the scope of automatic recognition of professional qualifications and does not leave Member States free to recognise specialisms in the medical profession.
The annual production limit required is set at too low a level, which may act as a disincentive for European SMEs to manufacture, thus hindering their potential for development and technological innovation.
The rapporteur feels that this measure is disproportionate and suggests only a management plan.
This raises four important issues: - firstly, it is essential to evaluate the effectiveness of the recovery plans established in the revision of the common fisheries policy (CFP) in Council Regulation (EC) No&#160;2371/2002 of December 2002, as a measure for conserving fisheries resources; - secondly, fishermen must be involved in the process of assessing stocks, which Parliament called for in its opinion on integrating environmental protection requirements into the CFP.
It is deplorable that in the case of Northern hake fishermen have not previously been properly involved; - thirdly, given that the sustainability of resources is a key objective for the fisheries sector and for fishermen, stock recovery measures – leading to a reduction in the catch and fishing effort and in some cases to activities being ceased altogether – must be subject to an assessment of their socio-economic impact; financial compensation for losses incurred by those affected, especially fishermen, must also be ensured; - lastly, measures must be commensurate with aims, which requires not only assessing ... &#160;&#160; .
The original proposal of the Commission was for a cod and hake recovery plan based on scientific advice which was broadly similar in its assessment of the situation in both of these fisheries.
At committee stage this Souchet report was almost completely rewritten by amendments favouring the national interests which target the hake fishery.
The Regulation of 20 December 2002 on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources takes up these instruments, but serves in particular as a basis for a third instrument of management proposed on 27 June 2003, limiting the fishing effort in kilowatt-days.
If stocks are not to fall below the biomass limit, 100 000 tonnes in the case of Northern hake, for example, the number of days boats are absent from port would be limited on the basis of their power.
Apart from this tool’s complexity, what is the use of setting our European fishermen aside if the stocks released in that way are overexploited by the Japanese, the Russians and other practitioners of industrial fishing? &#160;&#160; The Commission’s proposal shows the need for a collection of measures to facilitate the recovery of the hake stock.
The proposal is based on a report by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES).
I chose to vote against Parliament’s amendments because the original proposal by the Commission attaches greater importance to taking the problems seriously.
First, however, whilst nobody in this House is opposed to the proper control of the working time of all those employed within the European Union, it is equally important that a certain flexibility be allowed.
The purpose of the amendments that I tabled, and some of the proposals I supported, was to ensure that this flexibility would be there, that there would not necessarily be a renationalisation of the rules regarding working time, but that there would be flexibility within the system to ensure that seasonal workers and other people who chose to work longer hours would be entitled to do so, rather than being regulated against.
My Amendment No 26 sought to delete a certain paragraph, whereas the oral amendment related to adding something on to that paragraph from the original text.
In the UK, 4 million people – or 16% of the workforce – currently work more than 40 hours per week.
It beggars belief that more people voluntarily want to work in excess of 40 hours a week now than was the case at the time of the introduction of this directive.
No one should be forced to work more than 40 hours.
San Berlusconi said to me, ‘I know that tomorrow you are to vote on the Cercas report concerning working time and it seeks to prevent those who are exempt under the minimum working time directive from working too much.
I felt free therefore to vote according to my conscience and so, in fact, I voted in favour of the Cercas report, even though San Berlusconi advised me to vote against. &#160;&#160; Mr Fatuzzo, I thank you for bringing some Mediterranean colour to these otherwise modest debates after our votes.
There has also been an increase in the number of those working more than 55 hours, which is now over 1.55 million.
They are set at 48 hours measured over a period of four months.
The report’s explanatory statement acknowledges that such exceptions are becoming the rule in Europe.
In the United Kingdom in particular, the ‘individual opt-out clause’ has apparently been signed by one third of employees, four million of whom are already working more than 48 hours a week.
The resolution therefore asked the Commission why it had not undertaken the review of the directive that should have been made in 2003.
Calling for an improvement in the working conditions and health of employees, women in particular, it sought as far as possible to limit cases in which the 48-hour week was exceeded and in particular to do away with the ‘individual opt-out’ which is obviously being abused.
Once again, the vast majority of Members have shown their contempt for social questions and their sole concern for profit by voting for amendments that do away with any desire to limit working hours.
These are all minimum provisions and could easily be tightened up.
This is, above all, necessary to prevent governments of EU Member States from considering these European minimum provisions as normal and adjusting their national legislation accordingly, as the Dutch Minister De Geus appears to want to do.
The opt-out clause means that individual British employees, when signing their contract of employment, are asked to waive their rights.
The British opt-out in this area has, unfortunately, been ever increasingly turned into almost a principal rule, because 33% of employees in Great Britain have signed agreements to the effect that they are prepared to work more than 48 hours per week.
The Irish Foreign Minister, in his capacity as President of the Council, visited Israel and Egypt on 14-18 January 2004.
The meetings were conducted in a very cordial atmosphere and the discussions were wide-ranging and frank.
The Palestinian Prime Minister briefed his Irish interlocutors on the preparations being made for a meeting with the Prime Minister of Israel.
These included the continued return of Palestinian police to the streets; firm action to end incitement; and an unequivocal statement reaffirming the stated Palestinian position on Israel's right to exist in peace and in security.
There can be no doubt that the construction by Israel of a separation wall which extends deep into Palestinian territories is a major obstacle to progress and peace in that region.
This has been the subject of statements by the European Union and others who have urged Israel to consider the long-term consequences of this construction.
On 21 October 2003, the Member States of the European Union and the acceding states co-sponsored a resolution in the United Nations General Assembly.
That resolution called on Israel to stop and reverse construction of the wall and asked the United Nations Secretary-General to report on Israeli compliance.
When at the end of November the Secretary-General reported that there was no evidence of Israeli compliance, the General Assembly adopted a resolution asking the International Court of Justice to render an advisory opinion on the legal consequences of the construction of a wall in occupied Palestinian territory.
After considerable discussion – including at the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 26 January – it was agreed that there would be a presidency submission on behalf of the Union and that individual Member States might make national submissions based on established European Union positions.
The presidency had forwarded the texts of presidency statements to the United Nations General Assembly on 20 October and 8 December.
It is expected that oral submissions will commence on 23 February and that the Court will deliver its advisory opinion to the General Assembly sometime between late May and late July.
This plan points to some ways in which the difficult final status issues – such as Jerusalem and the right of return of refugees – might be addressed.
I am also encouraged by suggestions that the Arab League may move to reiterate its initiative adopted at the Beirut Summit almost two years ago.
They should emphasise their desire for a comprehensive peace, which can only be of benefit to all the countries of the region.
Finally, I should like to assure this House that the search for a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, based on the well-established positions of the European Union, is a priority of the Irish presidency and that we shall make every attempt to take the roadmap forward and to convince the parties to the conflict to make the necessary efforts to achieve a comprehensive and lasting peace for the benefit of all the peoples and States of the region. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that when the subject of the security fence or wall between Israel and the Palestinian autonomous regions is broached, emotions soon run very high on the part of everyone involved.
The issue we need to resolve today is where we stand as regards the hearing in the International Court of Justice on the Israeli wall.
I would first like to thank the Irish Presidency for their observations and for clarifying what the EU's position has been, on what occasions and for what reasons.
If you will permit me, I shall quote the relevant sentence in English: 'The EU believes that the proposed request for an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice will not help the efforts of the two parties to relaunch a political dialogue and is therefore inappropriate.' So the consequence was that the EU of 15 abstained.
It is my belief that we should not underestimate this issue in this context.
I therefore believe that political initiatives are far more important, and that the only way we can get the security wall removed or even, as a first step, make it easier for people to cross, is for us to really put pressure on everyone involved to assume their responsibilities and to honour the commitments which they have after all entered into in writing.
A senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, Henry Siegman, wrote recently that support for the cause of Palestinian nationhood does not require denial of Jews to live in their own state.
That is precisely my position: two states side by side, with the right of return of Palestinians largely to a state in the West Bank and Gaza.
Palestinians have to want peace and avoid terrorism.
It is very difficult to contest Israel's right to make itself secure, when Palestinian leaders seem unable to stop suicide bombers.
There are desperate people, but I am not convinced that desperation is the only basis for suicide bombers – they are also recruited and exploited.
I note that 350 activists resigned in protest last weekend from Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement.
Sister Dominique runs the Casa di Nostra Signora dei Dolori in Abu Dis, a village near Jerusalem, cut in two by the segregation and annexation wall, as it is known by Palestinians and peaceful Israelis, or by a security fence, as it is called by the Israeli authorities.
This is Sister Dominique’s message: ‘On 11 January the construction of the new separation wall, nine metres high, was begun.
For months hundreds of people have passed through our property every day to avoid military controls because they do not have the required permits.
We want to speak out on behalf of those people without a voice who every day, for the last two years, have struggled to reach their place of work and their schools or die through lack of medical treatment.
In attempting to carry out our mission, we have also encountered difficulties with soldiers when we have taken people in because the ambulance was forbidden to pass.
We do not know what will happen when the wall is finished.
The majority of our old people and employees come from the West Bank.
This nine metre high wall will make it necessary for us to sack most of our staff and refuse to accept old people from the West Bank, in other words those who are the poorest.
Meanwhile, the propaganda to have the wall accepted has intensified.
Concerned at the negative reaction of the international community, the Israeli authorities are attempting to make the wall appear less monstrous.
The European Union cannot throw international law overboard.
All those things prove that coexistence and security are possible whilst affirming the right of all to live in peace with dignity and justice. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we are engaging in a rather curious debate, and I cannot say that I understand all the various standpoints.
We are all in favour of putting international relations on a legal footing.
One very simple outcome, as I see it – and you do not have to be clairvoyant here – is that the Court could rule that a wall built on the 1967 borders recognised by the UN might not be to our liking, but would be in accordance with international law.
Whether we like it or not, the Israelis are entitled to build a wall on their own territory.
The key factor is that building this wall amounts to annexation.
The programmes of Palestinian organisations that do not recognise the State of Israel are also illegal and should be identified as such.
The issue of the PLO Charter is a complicated one.
It would also be possible to determine as a matter of law whether or not it refers to recognition of the State of Israel.
That means that it would also be possible to examine the constitution of groups and parties that defend the Palestinian state and Palestinian autonomy.
The end result would be that it would no longer be possible for one side or the other to claim a right for itself while refusing to recognise the rights of the other side.
If the world does not put the strongest pressure conceivable upon Israel to tear down this completely disastrous wall, whatever the decision arrived at by the International Court, there will never be peace in the Middle East.
The settlements both on the West Bank and in Gaza are illegal and the biggest obstacles of all to peace.
Consequently, I hope the argument that Israel must become a member of the European Union, supported by a large number of Members, is pursued with the utmost conviction because that is a contribution we can make in response to the events of 1939 in Europe and also in favour of the Palestinians, on whom you want to bestow instead a Middle East that is fascist, Nazi, communist and undemocratic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon claims that the construction of his country's controversial wall is to protect its citizens from terrorist attacks.
I abhor terrorism and would support the right of any government to take appropriate measures to defend the lives of its citizens.
Furthermore, 160&#160;000 of these would be trapped in 'double walled' ghettos or enclaves.
They would also be cut off, in certain instances, from centres such as Jerusalem, which have been the focus of their economic, social and religious life.
Furthermore, the restrictions on the freedom of movement of goods and services will intensify the problems for an already weakened Palestinian economy.
The consequences of this ill-conceived security strategy on the part of the Israeli Government will provide a fertile breeding ground for creating another generation of terrorists rather than effectively tackling the problem.
The issue of the legality of the wall has now moved centre stage.
The refusal of Israel to comply with the resolution adopted at the October General Assembly of the United Nations to stop and reverse the construction of the wall led to the General Assembly decision of 8 December to refer the matter to the International Court of Justice.
The recent declaration by Sharon that he plans to dismantle most of the 21 Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip is a step in the right direction.
However, building yet more security walls and crippling the already impoverished Palestinian economy serves only to make it more difficult to achieve peace in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I have great respect for the President-in-Office, but today he has been forced to demonstrate very dramatically to us just how incapable the European Union is of adopting a clear position on one of the most important issues of the day.
But you, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, have said yourself that the wall has been built deep into Palestinian territory, and the European Union has said the same.
But does it mean that other areas, particularly in the West Bank and in East Jerusalem, will be extended?
Support for clearing settlements from these areas is fine, but we should in no way be offering our support or agreement if it means that other areas in the West Bank are to be annexed.
My second question for you relates to the Americans' big talk about a new Middle East plan in the widest sense of the term.
It would be interesting if the European Union and the Council could say something about that. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, fear is a bad counsellor.
A UN report last September condemned the wall as illegal and charged Israel with unlawful annexation.
At present, we are talking about approximately 21&#160;000 people who live in the area between the wall and Israel and who are being cut off from social amenities, schools and jobs.
I share the view of all those who have said that the conflict between Israel and Palestine should be solved, but tolerating a wall and waiting until the conflict is over is not the right way to go about it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is a matter of great regret that the European Council has not supported the examination of the Israeli wall at the International Court of Justice.
Yet, when there is an international multilateral forum that exists to address this issue, we turn our backs upon it.
This wall is intolerable, illegal and immoral, and by failing to support the ICJ as a forum to consider it, the Council has been reckless and irresponsible.
The Council has also not been transparent, and I would like a copy of the letter that contains the presidency's submission to the ICJ to be made widely available. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like to make one thing clear in this debate: without Palestine’s reign of terror, an Israeli security barrier would not be under construction.
This only prejudices the pressing need for the resumption of the political dialogue between the parties involved.
In short, I endorse in this context the position adopted by my country, the Netherlands, and that of the European Union, which is one of rejection.
In the Israeli-Palestine conflict, we should adhere to the tried and tested principle that both sides should be heard. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, in this hearing at the International Court of Justice about the Israeli security wall the question seems to us to be very badly put and therefore likely to be very badly resolved.
All the interconnections between these different levels are very complex.
It would therefore be inappropriate to want to judge a small subsection separately without attempting to consider the role it plays in the whole process.
That is why those European countries that were against taking the problem before the International Court of Justice on the grounds that it would hamper the peace efforts were perfectly right.
Finally, we must make the distinction between the principle of the security barrier and the line it takes.
I believe I have detected some confusion about that in this debate.
Just as the line of the barrier can be a matter for negotiation and, like any matter for negotiation, subject to change, so its principle is a matter of the sovereign right of a state – and, moreover, a state whose survival is constantly threatened – to ensure the safety of its citizens. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish to take a rather personal line in this debate, because I believe that, whatever we say in this House, it may be perceived as offensive on all sides.
We can make speeches here in the European Parliament that are best suited to satisfying our own electorates at home in Great Britain or France or, as in my own case, in Sweden.
As the European Union and as the European Parliament, what contribution are we prepared to make to the Middle East issue, to a peaceful future there and to coexistence between Israelis and Palestinians?
As a 25&#160;year-old, I travelled to Belfast and saw how that city too is divided, with, in more recent times, barricades and barriers now having been built to separate Unionists and Republicans, the two population groups.
The United States has built a barrier between itself and Mexico.
No, not at all but, rather, to show that similar situations exist in many other places.
In the year 2000 and with UN approval, Israel constructed a security fence between itself and Lebanon, involving electronic and other surveillance using sensors.
I would hope and believe that the wall and the barrier that have been built are interim solutions or measures.
Let us hope that we achieve a peaceful solution in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, listening to speeches by many Members, it is clear that the reaction is almost unanimous and that we all believe that the Council letter, in which the Council suggests to the Court of Justice that a decision on the case of the wall in Palestinian territory be considered inappropriate, is particularly serious and inopportune.
Well, in any parliamentary democracy, faced with such a vast and firm opinion of Parliament, a government resigns.
Although the concept of resigning is not provided for in the European institutions, I would ask the Council to take into consideration the opinion given in this House, which is not denouncing the wall because it causes a hazard and slows down the peace process, but is denouncing the wall as such.
This wall, Mr&#160;President&#160;–&#160;as you well know and as many Members have stressed&#160;–&#160;is primarily a dividing wall because it does not follow the 1967 green line but it enters into Palestinian territory, dividing the Palestinian community, pupils from schools, children from parents, farmers from fields, ill people from doctors.
When it is completed, that figure will be 130&#160;000.
These figures, Mr&#160;President, were not made up by this Parliament but they were provided for us by the Israeli civil society and by Israeli non-governmental organisations, which remind us that 670&#160;000 Palestinians risk being seriously affected by the construction of this wall and that 14% of Palestinian territory will be taken away from the Palestinian Authority.
The real question about this barrier, Mr President, is this: should we stop it preventing deaths?
In that way, Mr Sharon is trying to turn the international tide that is opposed to his policy, but he will try to use the dismantling of the colonies in Gaza as compensation for the colonies within the wall on the West Bank.
A viable Palestinian state needs the agricultural land and the water sources, which are now being closed off.
Besides, Israel has the right to look for protection against terrorism behind the Green Line, but a new iron curtain will provide no answers in the long run.
The question is now whether the International Court of Justice can act as justice of the peace in this case.
In any event, the problem has now attracted much attention worldwide, and international pressure is being brought to bear – even in Israel, where the Supreme Court is now looking into the case.
We will continue actively to explore with all parties the possibility of resuming forward movement – even if through modest steps at the outset – in a process that has repeatedly stalled.
As for the wider approach to the Middle East region, the effort to promote peace, progress and prosperity should in the first place have strong local ownership on the part of those in the region.
After all, the continuation of the conflict is a central security reality for many people who live in the region.
It cannot accept that a fence or wall built on Palestinian land would best serve Israel's long-term security, nor did anything I have said suggest that this would be the case.
The appropriation of land in the West Bank or Gaza is illegal, it is contrary to international law and it fuels tension.
The construction of the fence, or the wall, was also the subject of a United Nations General Assembly resolution on 21 October, which all EU Member States and the accession states co-sponsored.
Equally, the people of Palestine need not live in hopelessness and indignity; where young people are encouraged to blow themselves up; where homes are bulldozed and destroyed; where employment is scarce or non-existent; where people are not free to travel around their country; where immigration seems to offer the only escape route.
We must all help the people of Israel and of Palestine to find the courage and wisdom to build a new peace; the courage to face down those who would reject compromise; the wisdom to understand that putting an end to the insecurity and suffering of their neighbours is in their own long-term interest.
No Member of this House need have any concern or doubt as to the interest of this presidency in helping to resolve this issue.
I come from a small island where we know something of the causes and costs of division. &#160;&#160; – We are obliged to the Council.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The next item on the agenda is the statement by the Commission on corporate governance and financial supervision in the Parmalat case.
My first point is this: the financial services industry had better get its act together, and do so quickly.
Secondly – we already have a range of policies in hand which will go some way to improving matters in the future: measures in the Financial Services Action Plan – such as the Market Abuse and Prospectus Directives – which should be rapidly implemented; measures such as the new Investment Services Directive, which will help deal with some of the major conflicts of interest in the investment services business; the new international accounting rules which will enhance disclosure, along with the Transparency Directive – which we want adopted before this Parliament breaks for its elections.
All these directives also enhance the powers of competent authorities to act and also to cooperate much more across borders.
In my view, that means cooperating as well, in the same way, with foreign regulators – non-European regulators – in particular the SEC in Washington and also the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in the United States.
Thirdly, in March I shall propose to my colleagues in the Commission a revised Company Law Directive on the statutory audit function.
It will strengthen controls over the audit profession in the European Union with independent oversight; strengthened inspection; stronger ethical and educational principles and high quality audit standards.
These four aspects will be contained in the revised Company Law Directive.
I am accelerating work in three other areas in the Corporate Governance or Company Law areas in order to have proposals ready, if possible, later this year.
They are the following three areas: the role of non-executive directors; directors' responsibility for company accounts; full disclosure in the company accounts of offshore special purpose vehicles, including the reason why the company uses those offshore structures and a much stricter verification by the group auditor of their content.
Finally, the role and regulatory control of offshore centres need to be tightened.
This shows how a necessary combination of transparency, efficiency and stability is all too often theoretical and, above all, fragile when faced with perverse desires rooted in a lack of ethics.
It is essential to combat infringements and fraud in such a way that financial analysts will not then find themselves in a situation where they have to advise their own clients to make criminal investments.
It is our task to try to reverse this course, to try to protect the savings of millions of people and to regain the full trust of financial market investors.
We can have different political ideas on the aims of the regulation, on the production and distribution of income, but we must all agree on the fact that there must be no defrauding.
I also urge the Commission to monitor any new measure which concerns the role of rating agencies.
I will take the liberty of again asking the Commission to incorporate into the action plan on corporate governance measures designed to prevent conflicts of interests, whether they be those concerning investments made by banks or other financial institutions in listed companies controlled by internal stakeholders or, rather, those concerning cases of financial analysts who work for investment banks and advise their clients to invest in companies which are provided with profitable services by their bank.
Guaranteeing optimum transparency before and after transactions is absolutely necessary for investors in the field of financial instruments.
If the request for help were to be deemed counter to the rules on free competition, it would be the beginning of the end for a sector that boasts tradition and is of undisputed quality at European level.
The Parmalatcase calls for a great sense of responsibility, above all at our level, at European level.
Many of these tax havens are controlled by Member States of the European Union.
Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stieglitz mentions how the use of banking secrecy is often one of the factors of economic instability, and the European Union is always appropriately preaching transparency.
Commissioner Bolkestein, you have realised&#160;–&#160;and you stated this&#160;–&#160;that the national control instruments are not sufficient: we urgently need global and supranational rules.
We need to govern the financial markets and avoid conflicts of interest and perverse plots between banks and businesses.
Such an urgent and sensitive issue perhaps warrants greater attention from us&#160;–&#160;from Parliament and the Community institutions&#160;–&#160;and not a simple communication.
We want a strong voice to come out of this Chamber to protect, guarantee and support the thousands of workers&#160;–&#160;from Parma to Sicily&#160;–&#160;direct employees and those in allied industries, who today risk losing their jobs and salary.
I am therefore very pleased with what we have heard from the Commission.
There is a need for that action plan, and there is a need for the Commission to put more resources into implementing it.
A great many financial scandals can arise during that period of time, but, in its action plan, the Commission is repeatedly alert to issues of timing.
Such arrangements are untenable.
The culture surrounding corporate governance is important.
We just need to move up a gear and travel a little more quickly towards our destination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Parmalat financial scandal is a direct result of the monetarisation of the economy.
This monetarisation is clearly excessive because the production and trade that meet the people’s material needs are drowned in the speculative waters of international high finance.
Parmalat made use of every trick in the book: front organisations in tax havens, the benefits of special offshore regulations, hedge funds and forged documents and bills.
Thousands of jobs were put at risk, in the thirty-plus countries in which Parmalat operated, creating enormous difficulties for the thousands of milk producers who depended on the company.
What is most urgently required, however, is a return to the core values of production and labour.
However considerable the problems of shareholders are – and they undoubtedly are serious – priority must be given to protecting jobs and to safeguarding workers’ rights and to ensuring their right to information, consultation and participation.
I should like to highlight the negative contribution of the EU in terms of monetarisation, and, specifically, the Financial Services Action Plan, which encourages the deregulation, liberalisation and integration of capital markets together with the dismantling of prudential rules and control mechanisms.
It worries me, Commissioner, that you say that hasty and poorly thought through legislation may exacerbate, rather than solve, problems of regulation illustrated by large-scale cases, such as Enron and Parmalat.
In spite of your ideological concerns and your reluctance to take risks, we cannot ignore the evidence staring us in the face, or the urgent need to address these problems effectively. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I do not wish to dwell at length upon the drama of Parmalat – Italy’s eighth largest company – which, according to the latest estimates, is in danger of costing thousands of workers their jobs and the Italian exchequer some ten billion euros.
In the context of the various initiatives that you are announcing or that are under way, I should like to hear you say more about the responsibility you are going to have to assume as Commissioner and would ask you to tell us whether the proposals for directives you are preparing appear to you to be sufficient and commensurate with what is at stake, particularly on two points.
Otherwise, we shall be in danger of finding ourselves in the same type of situation in a year’s, indeed in two years’, time.
I now come to my second point, and I have to say that I again deplore the fact that the Council is not present&#160;–&#160;I do not understand why the Council is present on some occasions and not on others&#160;–&#160;for I have already questioned the Irish Presidency about what it intended to do in this area.
Where off shore centres are concerned, Commissioner, why not raise the issue of effective international regulation within the context of the WTO negotiations?
Alternatively, these institutions lie or the monitoring rules are so flexible&#160;–&#160;and, therefore, not very precise&#160;–&#160;that it is possible to interpret them in such a way that they enable major fraud.
We can be proud of the fact that this process started before Parmalat happened because, as people have said, there have been scandals throughout the world.
We are concerned with four major problems: the issue of tax havens, that of the way in which capital is organised, that of the separation between financing and production and, finally, that of the fate of salaried and other employees.
That being said, I should like to emphasise two or three difficulties arising, in my view, from the proposals you have made.
Indeed, you cannot have ambitions to improve the way in which the operation of companies is regulated without granting more say to salaried and other employees.
Moreover, what has been described as the largest financial and accounting fraud ever registered in Europe dramatically highlighted the serious lack of rigorous and effective rules that are capable of preventing cases of the falsification of company accounts which, in accordance with a recent Italian law, have been decriminalised.
It is essential that, in a common market such as the European one where the Treaties state that the constitutional principles of free circulation of people, goods, capital and services apply, the Commission intervene in order to give greater protection to citizens against this type of fraud, and that it does so through Community measures that are capable of stepping up the monitoring of accounts audits for Union companies.
In particular, a strict economic embargo, binding in this sense, would force the whole of the international community, including the USA, to act in an honest manner, so as to be able to prevent the reoccurrence of unfortunate episodes such as those that we have been talking about. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, for years, the boss of Parmalat had to use the same language to his 36&#160;000 employees, scattered among thirty countries, as all bosses use to their workers.
The last straw is that all those who have been complicit in these instances of embezzlement&#160;–&#160;the banks and administrations&#160;–&#160;will continue as before, while the company’s 36&#160;000 workers are in danger of losing their livelihoods, and thousands of small dairy farmers are affected.
Among the companies you claim are in the majority in behaving ethically and honestly, how many other Parmalats are there, however, that have still not been unmasked?
We are in favour of workers, consumers and the population being able to control companies, their accounts, the ways in which they realise their profits and the ways in which they use them.
Tax havens do not exist only in the Bahamas.
To abolish them here in Europe, banking and commercial secrecy needs to be abolished. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are some cases where Europe is really needed, when swiftness of action is especially important and crucial in order to establish whether our institutions are really in a position to interpret the needs of citizens.
Basically, we need to move in three directions, which have, moreover, already been mentioned.
Firstly, the Commission must put forward proposals on the behaviour of companies when they operate in tax havens to hide their dirty money.
I am afraid that, in order to genuinely be on the side of consumers and savers, especially in such a politically sensitive period, the Commission should formulate a proposal that visibly supports them and that – I repeat – goes far beyond the proposals that have been presented today.
Secondly, I would be pleased if Commissioner Bolkestein put forward a proposal to ensure that EU countries controlling these tax havens, that have access to them or that have particularly lax legislation in place on this issue, can be persuaded in some way to change course.
One of the causes of this financial collapse was, primarily the approval of the false financial statements of the Parmalat Group by one of the major auditing companies, which is alleged to have hidden the real asset situation of the company.
As we all know, the Parmalat collapse is, unfortunately, merely the latest in a long series of similar affairs that have occurred across Europe.
So what can Italian citizens and European citizens, who are often the victims of this financial adventurism, expect?
I think that they expect urgent and tangible measures, both to protect the workers in the Parmalat Group, which is the specific case in point, and – more generally – to safeguard and compensate the savers involved in this collapse.
Lastly, a black list should be established to ensure that tax havens are outlawed. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Bolkestein, I welcome the initiatives that you announced beforehand and those that have been taken recently.
Italy has given its central bank certain powers as regards competition, and therefore antitrust lawsand plays a fundamental role in the running of banking activities and, as a result of those banking activities, in the industrial system as a whole.
Our objective is not to totally prevent such things happening in future – that would be impossible – but to make them less likely.
The Commission's Action Plan on company law has taken on board the essence of the proposals made in the Winter II Report.
Against that background I very much welcome the fact that legislative proposals drawn up in America will also have an impact on international audit companies operating over here in Europe.
On that point I would just like to comment that companies like Enron, WorldCom and others all submitted such quarterly reports.
Unfortunately, they were all false.
The list of companies that have deployed, above all, their criminal intelligence to deceive euphoric financial markets has become extremely long in recent years.
All these financial scandals are the product of the belief, spread by the markets, according to which it is possible, at no risk, to become very rich in a very short space of time.
Faced with these scandals, the business world is still affected by the same short-sightedness.
Often – in fact, too often – I heard, at that time, that Enron was only an isolated case and a product of the irrational exuberance of the American market, but that Europe was quite different.
Europe, the United States, Japan and all the important financial centres must cooperate.
Transparency is needed, together with a constraining regulatory framework imposed also upon tax havens, offshore centres and other black holes of international finance.
The tool for achieving this should consist of new rules governing thecapital adequacy for banks, that is to say what is known in our jargon as the Basel II agreement.
Especially if we want it to have a social dimension, the market economy needs enterprising entrepreneurs and innovative financial circuits to fund them, but everything must be done to manage these markets in such a way as to ensure that employees, subcontractors, suppliers and shareholders do not become the victims of financial crime operating under the cloak of respectability. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, the Parmalat collapse and other worrying financial crises before and after it have revealed the limitations of the rules governing our financial markets.
As happened in the United States, on the crest of the affair, and in the United Kingdom, with its 34 defaulting scandals, in Italy too we immediately realised the need to introduce strict legislation in order to protect savers more effectively and – in a broader sense – to attempt to limit the discredit that would inevitably affect the financial market involved.
Similarly, I do not support exceptional measures, such as the possibility of a monitoring super-authority, because we would run the risk of creating a new body that would have difficulty in making any additional contribution to an environment that must be restructured.
The bankruptcy law could also play a key role: the principle and the ‘suspect period’ should also play a role in both extraordinary administration and controlled administration.
This would reinforce the protection of creditors.
These would, however, be subject to the assessment of a designated judge.
Above all, though, in addition to accounts auditors, we will need to put in place a figure that has already existed in the United States for ten years: the ethics officer.
Europe’s Parmalat affair is no less devastating than the WorldCom case, the biggest US financial scandal to date.
On this issue – this objective issue – there is very little middle ground; instead, what we have is, in my view, a farcical political polarisation.
Yet the current financial regulations in the EU enable financial systems that lack transparency to pursue fraudulent policies.
If we fail to take action now, we will forfeit the confidence of the workers who are now losing their jobs, as well as the investors in the capital markets – confidence that we want to secure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Parmalat scandal comprises a series of quite distinct crises.
It is therefore clear that the proper working of markets is essential to our collective future wellbeing.
Secondly, it is important that investors have confidence in the market.
It is the confidence of the small investor – either directly or through pension funds – which is so important for the workings of twenty-first century capitalism.
Regulation is the answer, but not over-regulation.
I would like to pick up on a few points at the closure of this debate in view of the importance of the subject.
The full complexity of the situation in the case of Parmalat, as regards the use of offshore financial centres and special purpose vehicles, still has to be clarified.
All these types of special operations ought to be subject to three requirements: firstly, they ought to be listed in company accounts; secondly, the company concerned should explain its purpose – why does that company have these special purpose vehicles? – and thirdly, the group auditor ought to be made responsible for checking that what is supposed to be there really is there.
Along the same lines, the Commission will consider increased disclosure requirements in the context of the amendments to the fourth and seventh company law directives.
These amendments are due to be adopted by September 2004.
The question of the transparency of corporate vehicles and other legal arrangements is under consideration by the Commission, both internally within the European Union and also in the wider international context.
Apparently, the existing legislation in Italy on annual accounts requires neither a cashflow statement, nor much information about financial derivatives and their impact on the financial position.
The fair value accounting directive, adopted in 2001, has been in force since 1 January 2004.
That directive requires detailed disclosure about financial instruments such as the fair value of financial instruments, information about their extent and nature, and a table showing the movements in fair value.
Paragraph 7 of the resolution states that the political guidelines of the action plan on corporate governance are based mainly on transparency and disclosure.
That is perfectly true, there are important transparency and disclosure initiatives, but the action plan also contains significant initiatives that are introduced via directives: it suggests appropriate and proportionate binding rules, for example on shareholders' rights and also on directors' liability.
The OECD does a lot of work in this area and we should be careful not to get ahead of ourselves.
I should therefore like to support the OECD as much as possible in its work.
That is something we cannot do, but we can make it very difficult for people with ill intentions seeking to continue their work.
We are considering stronger disclosure requirements in amendments to the fourth and seventh Company Law Directives to be adopted in September, but I do not know whether those amendments are sufficient to control the whole business of offshore tax havens and special purpose vehicles.
However, these three requirements which I have just formulated certainly must be met and we must find a way of doing this. &#160;&#160; To conclude this debate, I have received six motions for resolutions from six political groups.(1) The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0007/2004).
Furthermore, the Commission has not put forward any serious proposals with a view to retraining agricultural workers who lose their jobs and it is trying to modify certain COMs which have operated satisfactorily.
An initial general debate was held on these two proposals for regulations at the Agricultural and Fisheries Council on 17 December 2003.
At that meeting the producer Member States' delegations voiced their misgivings about the impact which the proposed measures would have on the sectors concerned, in the knowledge that it involved crops located, for the most part, in Objective 1 areas with conversion difficulties.
These discussions are ongoing and it would be premature to prejudge the outcome of the proceedings and discussions to be held in the Council.
Nonetheless, the Council will pay special attention to the impact of the reform on regions whose agricultural economy relies heavily on crops covered by the reform.
The presidency is aware that these proposals could have an impact on the social fabric, particularly in regions such as Andalusia.
The presidency is aware of the concerns of producer Member States that, if alternative enterprises are not available for farmers who are in receipt of decoupled or partly-decoupled payments, they could opt out of production altogether and that would leave the area with resulting damage to the rural fabric.
The Commission has taken this into consideration in formulating its proposals.
The Council will look closely at those elements of the Commission's proposals and will try to find a compromise solution that will be acceptable to producer Member States.
As I have said, the Irish presidency is particularly aware of this type of potentially negative regional impact.
This report identifies key trends and challenges across the Union.
That will form the basis of the joint Council and Commission report on social inclusion which will be presented in March at the spring European Council.
An important feature of the report is the increased attention given to regional and local variations in the levels of poverty and social exclusion, and how the underlying causes of poverty and social exclusion can vary from region to region.
This is particularly important in communities facing multiple disadvantages.
As far as the Irish presidency is concerned, the presidency will take all necessary steps to ensure that the Union's social inclusion goals are fully reflected during the course of the preparation and in the follow-up to the spring European Council.
It will also report on the Lisbon goals relating to social protection and employment policy, including the goals of combating poverty and fostering social inclusion in Member States.
Finally, the Irish presidency will take a number of initiatives to assist Member States to develop further policies and programmes to combat poverty and foster social inclusion.
There will be three specific conferences during the course of the Irish presidency.
The first of these is to be held on 1 and 2 April in Bundoran in County Donegal, a particularly appropriate location given its regional position.
The second will be held on 13 and 14 May in Dublin: the Families, Change and Social Policy in Europe Conference.
The third will be on 28 and 29 May in Brussels.
It will be a special meeting of people from European Union countries who have experienced poverty.
I am sure the Member will agree with me that in framing policy, no matter how good policy-makers are, it is only by listening to people who have had the experience on the ground that you really make policies which are focused efficiently and effectively on the needs of families and communities in poverty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I hardly dared to think that I would get such a long and comprehensive answer to what was in fact a three-line question.
I refer particularly to Dun Laoghaire, Rathdown, which in many cases is recognised as being an affluent area but does, of course, have serious pockets of disadvantage, which local organisations have made a significant effort to address.
In my reply I made the particular point that even in affluent areas – indeed the Member mentioned an area which is generally perceived as very affluent, and quite rightly so – there is poverty and deprivation.
I am aware that some of the studies focused on in the honourable Member's question have suggested, for example, that in Ireland a lower proportion of GDP is devoted to social protection than in the rest of the EU.
Any objective observer would say that most Member States – including my own Member State – have done extremely well recently.
However, one always has to be focused on the specific type of poverty which was addressed in the supplementary question and which I sought to address in my original response.
Dawit Isaac is both a Swedish and an Eritrean citizen and was one of the founders of Setit, Eritrea's first private newspaper.
The European Union's relations with the Eritrean Government have progressed over the last two years, after the difficult situation in late 2001, and a dialogue on the internal situation and on the peace process has been re-established.
In meetings at local level the heads of mission have expressed, on several occasions, the Union's concern at the imprisonment of a number of people – among them many journalists – and the suppression of the independent press.
In October 2003 the Council welcomed the recent steps taken by the government of Eritrea to restore a climate of general communication and to develop a meaningful political dialogue with the Union.
Specifically within the area of human rights, the EU can do significantly more than can be done by the governments of the individual Member States, for example those of Ireland or Sweden.
The European Union has recognised these activities through public statements and has helped South Africa to finance its deployment with the African mission in Burundi, since it is a considerable financial drain on a country like South Africa, which still faces significant internal challenges – poverty, unemployment and of course the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
South Africa has played a very helpful and positive role in getting the EU-Africa dialogue back on track after the planned summit in Lisbon was postponed.
The meetings will allow an opportunity to deepen our dialogue and to discuss issues of mutual concern. 2004 is a particularly important year for South Africa as it celebrates ten years of democracy on 27 April.
Ibrahima Fall, the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General, is responsible for the organisation of this conference and prepares it together with national preparatory committees in the seven core countries.
The EU Special Representative for the Great Lakes Region has offered his assistance and participated in some of the preparatory meetings.
It is, as the Member has suggested, critically important that the European Union engage with South Africa on the sensitive issue of Zimbabwe.
Issues in Africa cannot be resolved by people externally wagging fingers.
The European Union acknowledges the leading role of South Africa, not just on the Zimbabwe issue but generally on the continent.
It has a particularly significant role to play in its own southern African region.
The impact of the situation in that troubled land on its surrounding countries has been the subject of discussion in the EU-Africa Ministerial Troika as recently as November 2003.
In our political dialogue with South Africa last December, there was a constructive exchange of views in relation to Zimbabwe and the South African side acknowledged EU humanitarian assistance to that troubled state.
The formation of the African Union and NEPAD is another important initiative.
Initiatives such as the African Union and NEPAD are of great importance.
One of the ambitions of the Irish presidency is to raise issues relating to Africa higher up the agenda of the European Union.
It would not only be positive in itself for Europe to take a more active role and interest in Africa, but Europe also has some moral responsibilities in the matter. &#160;&#160; Question&#160;No&#160;5 has been withdrawn.
As the Council is aware, the EU's Youth Programme provides for mobility and non-formal education for thousands of young people aged between 15 and 25 years and is open to youth in 30 European countries.
The presidency programme in the youth field includes a draft resolution on social inclusion with regard to young people which will, , invite Member States, in pursuance of the social integration issues contained in the White Paper on Youth, to develop strategies and proposals to ensure that meaningful social inclusion measures are developed in the context of youth policy.
I should also like to underline that the Council is conscious of the need to protect children against exploitation in all forms.
This is an area in which the Council has adopted a number of measures, in particular, on 22 December 2003, a framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
The framework decision obliges Member States to punish specific conduct linked to the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography as criminal offences under their individual national laws. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that answer, President-in-Office.
The protection of children – particularly in terms of the Internet and other evolving technologies – is clearly something to be concerned about.
With regard to pornography, and the actual peddling of pornographic images – whether on the Internet or via the new mobile phone networks – the framework decision of 22 December 2003 on combating sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is relevant.
According to the framework decision, each Member State should take the necessary measures to ensure that all forms of child abuse are punishable.
Part of the overall, general Lisbon process is to address unemployment at all levels.
Within the Council's working party on promoting good practice in child protection and youth work across Europe you will find a reference to creating more coherence across policies, creating more coordination and cooperation in the formulation of policies of a social nature to address difficulties that appear in this sector.
I take note of his comment and his suggestions. &#160;&#160; Question No 7 has been withdrawn.
The question anticipates something that will happen.
The Council will then have the opportunity to discuss it in depth and will wish to ensure the greatest possible protection of consumers' interests.
I should like to make a further remark to my good friend Liam Hyland on this matter.
His question anticipates something that the Commission is about to do.
In his question he identified an area that will require attention from the Commission, the Council and Parliament. &#160;&#160; With such very kind comments from the President-in-Office I am almost sorry that I have announced my retirement from the European Parliament.
As we have seen with the recent outbreak of avian flu in Thailand, the question of country of origin is one of genuine concern to European consumers.
If proper traceability exists, then every food outlet should know the country of origin of the meat and other food products it serves.
I know, and I am sure the minister knows, that producers and consumers in my own country, Ireland, are concerned that many restaurants are not able to provide this information.
Apart from the safety and quality issues, this denies the consumers the right to support home or European production as opposed to third-country production.
My supplementary question is: does the Council accept that consumers had valid concerns in this area?
The Council shares the view of the honourable Member that fishermen and their representative organisations not only should but must be allowed to have greater participation and involvement in the decision-making processes of the common fisheries policy.
This is one of the principles agreed in the reform of the CFP adopted by the Council in December 2002.
As the President of the Council said to the Fisheries Committee in January, these regional advisory councils will provide a forum where all stakeholders can come together and discuss issues of concern.
This process of dialogue should gradually lead to greater mutual understanding and trust.
One of the suggestions we made at that time was that the very type of dialogue which Mr Ó Neachtain has actually been promoting in the fishing industry is centrally important if both actors are to understand their respective roles.
The Council aims to adopt the decision on establishing the RACs as soon as possible once it has heard the views of this Parliament on the matter.
I know that Mr Ó Neachtain will make a distinguished and very vigorous contribution to that debate. &#160;&#160; I want to thank the President-in-Office for his comprehensive reply and also for his support for the principle of regional advisory committees.
The presidency indicated clearly last month that the regional advisory councils would provide an important forum for all stakeholders.
During his recent visit to the USA, the Turkish Prime Minister, Tayip Erdogan, stated unequivocally before the Council on Foreign Relations that the Annan plan did not constitute a basis for negotiations but a point of reference for conducting them.
He also stressed that an independent, impartial and politically influential country should take part in the negotiations as well as a new representative of Kofi Annan.
The December 2003 European Council urged all parties – in particular Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leadership – to give their strong support to UN Secretary-General Annan's efforts and, in this context, called for an immediate resumption of the talks on the basis of his proposals.
In the weeks since the European Council there have been a number of developments – in fact there have been developments within the last 24 hours – which have a bearing on the prospects for a comprehensive settlement.
In Turkey, following an intensive consultation process, the National Security Council stated on 23 January 2004 that it had reached a consensus position in favour of negotiations, taking the Annan plan as a reference, on the basis of the realities on the island.
President Papadopoulos has reiterated the readiness of the government of the Republic of Cyprus to participate in resumed negotiations without preconditions.
Last week Secretary-General Annan invited the parties to resume talks on a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem on the basis of his proposals.
The Secretary-General appealed to the leaders to summon the political will needed to bring about this result in the short time available.
This resumption offers a real opportunity to achieve the historic objective of the accession of a united Cyprus to the European Union on 1 May 2004.
But this Union strongly supports the central role of the United Nations in the search for a comprehensive settlement.
The Council continues to hope that it will be possible to welcome a reunited Cyprus to the Union on 1 May 2004.
The Member will be aware that talks involving the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot leaders are continuing as we speak at the United Nations headquarters in New York under the auspices of the Secretary-General.
In accordance with the clear commitment given to Turkey at the Copenhagen European Council in December 2002, the European Council will decide in December this year, on the basis of the report and recommendations from the Commission, whether Turkey has fulfilled the Copenhagen political criteria.
It relates to the objective Copenhagen criteria, which Members of this House and the Turkish Government understand. &#160;&#160; The European Parliament has previously expressed the view that it sees the Turkish presence in Northern Cyprus as an occupation.
The European Community was born as a peace project, and our desire is to safeguard the heritage received from De Gasperi, Schuman, Monet and Adenauer.
Against that background, is it in line with the EU’s ideas of peace and the heritage from our founding fathers to give Turkey a starting date for negotiations concerning membership of the European Union at the same time as Turkey continues to be an occupying power in Northern Cyprus?
Quite clearly, we are all very conscious of the role that the Turkish Government can play to bring about a resolution there.
That summit confirmed that the future of the countries of the Western Balkans lies in their integration into the European Union structures.
Real progress has been made in Kosovo in recent times, on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 1244.
The Council fully supports Harri Holkeri, the UN Special Representative for Kosovo, as he works to operationalise the policy of 'standards before status' and to ensure progress on the direct dialogue on practical issues between Belgrade and Pristina.
In December the Council underlined the importance of structural economic reforms in Kosovo.
We look forward to an early discussion of the report which the November Council requested High Representative Javier Solana to prepare, in close cooperation with the Commission and also in cooperation with Mr&#160;Holkeri.
I simply wish to add two critical comments or questions.
In other words, the 'standards before status' concept only functions to a limited extent because there is simply no certainty about Kosovo’s future.
As a lecturer for many years in one of our universities in Ireland, I said that economic progress is the most delicate of all flowers and has to be nurtured by a very specific eco-environment which is especially friendly to its own needs.
The EU is, however, anxious to support the economic development in Kosovo.
In UNMIK Pillar 4 – I hate acronyms, by the way – the EU is assisting the revitalisation of economic activity in Kosovo towards the creation of conditions of a modern, open-market economy.
The aim must be to establish a sustainable private sector which can create employment because that is the only hope for the region.
The European Agency for Reconstruction continues to finance and manage sustainable reconstruction and development programmes in Kosovo.
The presidency urges the provisional institutions to engage constructively in that process.
The Standards for Kosovo document – agreed on 10&#160;December 2003 – and the ongoing development of the implementation work can provide a clear framework with which the provisional institutions must comply, but they can also provide a framework in which the necessary confidence can be built up.
If there is compliance with all of this it will build the type of confidence that is necessary if a sustainable economic development is to take place.
Sustainable economic development will only take place if and when the conditions for investment are adjudicated to be appropriate by private enterprise and by private investors. &#160;&#160; –– &#160;I would like to congratulate the Irish Presidency and the Council on all the efforts they are making to resolve the Kosovo conflict and other conflicts around the world.
He is a good friend.
The Council again emphasises that it deplores any situation where human rights are not upheld.
As would be the case for citizens in any other country, if the Cuban Government is concerned about the welfare of any of its citizens in the United States, it is free to raise the matter with the US authorities, as provided for in the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.
The reality is that the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations provides the framework on which issues of this nature are dealt with and the means by which the Cuban Government is entitled to make representations on behalf of any of its citizens.
Human rights is a universal concern and I would not like it to be thought that the Irish presidency, or indeed any other presidency of the European Union, would adopt a partial approach to issues relating to human rights.
We have to be consistent, and, as I have already said, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations provides the framework in the light of which any issues arising should first be addressed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too am dissatisfied with your answer, as I have heard accounts from relatives of Cuban citizens unjustly held in US prisons, who have been denied any visiting rights.
That is well recognised in international law.
There is really nothing further the presidency can add to this. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, I really appreciate the difficult position you are in, having to give a reply on this acute problem, a reply on which we insist and which we demand from the European Union, from the Council, when it takes initiatives on other matters.
This incident clearly proves how hypocritical and selective everything said by the USA and the European Union about combating terrorism is.
As long as the European Union does not say a word about the release of these patriotic fighters for democracy, it is aligning itself fully and participating in the strategy against Cuba, which is a beacon for the peoples in the area.
As I have already said, the Council and the European Union deplore any situation where human rights are not upheld, but again, as I have already said, if the Cuban Government is concerned about the welfare of any of its citizens in the US, it is free to raise the matter directly with the US authorities, as provided for by the Vienna Convention on consular relations.
That is the issue.
I do not want to create any false hopes, but I make the point that there are facilities, particularly within the context of the Vienna Convention, for the government of Cuba – which is primarily responsible for the wellbeing of its citizens – to raise this issue if it so wishes. &#160;&#160; As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 18 to 33 will be replied to in writing (1).
The cases concerned in this instance are those in which the parties are domiciled in different Member States and which, for that reason, pose certain difficulties.
The risk in such situations is that the persons involved might refrain from asserting their rights because of the obstacles that they would encounter in going to law in a foreign country, with unfamiliar legislation and procedures, and the costs that they would have to bear.
In other words, a genuine internal market is created by the existence of a common legal area, to which private individuals and firms can have access, without being penalised, regardless of the judicial systems of the different Member States.
The first Green Paper deals with the issues of the conversion of the 1980 Rome Convention into a Community instrument and its modernisation.
Conversion of the Rome Convention into a Community instrument, as is now being considered, is an additional measure following on from the procedure previously employed for the Brussels Convention and it is certainly useful in that it ensures direct application and uniform interpretation by the Court of Justice.
Furthermore, the scope of the Convention rules should be extended to include insurance contracts, and the provisions on consumer and employment contracts and electronic commerce transactions need to be clarified in some respects to enable them to be coordinated with Community legislation in force.
The regulation will also need to define the entire order for payment procedure, specifying the requirements applicable to creditors’ claims so as to establish a common measure affording certainty as to procedure and, where possible, costs.
The Commission also agrees that the direct enforceability of the judgments issued in this procedure should be achieved by means of the future regulation creating a European enforcement order for uncontested debts.
These shared convictions will be fully satisfied in the coming proposal for a regulation although there are other issues on which Parliament does not appear to have made a definite proposal, but rather maintains a more open approach: as in the case of the choice of a model of a single stage based on evidence or a model of two stages without evidence.
The Commission would find it unfortunate if, unlike in other cases – such as the Directive on free legal aid for example – Parliament did not support a broad scope, which also addressed national situations, and simply advocated a more restrictive approach.
We must also say that we intend to present – around October of this year – a proposal for a Community instrument with a broad scope, a proposal which will be preceded by extensive consultation, both of the Member States and of all the parties involved.
I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and its rapporteur for their support for the Commission’s initiative on the conversion of the 1980 Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations into a Community instrument in order to guarantee that it is interpreted coherently and to speed up its entry into force in the new States.
We are at the Green Paper phase, we hope that the Commission will present its proposals soon and, above all, I would like to welcome the fact that the Commission is now taking up one of the main proposals contained in Parliament’s recommendations: recourse to the Regulation, which is the most appropriate procedure for adopting these rules.
Secondly, I believe there is a very important idea in the Gargani report: the idea of the importance of codification.
This idea is reflected in the recent interinstitutional agreement, concluded between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission: as far as possible, as we go on adopting legal rules, we must codify them, so that we do not find later that we have a series of regulations, directives, decisions etc., which bear no relation to each other.
Proposals for the approximation of procedural law are amongst the most difficult to achieve effectively.
As you well know, I represent an area of Scotland in this House.
Finally, in relation to small claims, all that is in the Gargani report is admirable.
Nevertheless, the Commission has proposed extending its functions in three very specific and very topical areas: the fight against pollution caused by ships, the training of crews and marine protection.
I would like to point out that the recent maritime disasters have made it patently obvious that we need to adopt new measures at European level, not only involving the prevention of pollution, but also in relation to the provision and management of resources for combating pollution when it occurs.
The Agency’s actions in terms of combating pollution will supplement the provisions in force in the States of the Union and will give added value to the actions taken at Community level in the field of civil protection.
As well as the provision of adequate resources, the Agency will provide technical and scientific support in this area to the Member States and the Commission.
With regard to the minimum level of training for seamen, our proposal involves a simple comparison with the existing provision in the Regulation establishing the Agency, with a more important role for the Community, in accordance with Directive 2001/25/EC.
Also in the field of the protection of citizens, our proposal is intended to take account of the new Community competence relating to improving the safety of ships and port installations.
The Regulation introducing this new competence will enter into force soon, thanks to the agreement reached by Parliament and the Council at first reading.
The Agency's attendance at these inspections is entirely appropriate.
Although this approach is more restrictive than the one we have advocated, the Commission could accept it.
I believe that the amendments are constructive and I believe that in this way we will be able to reach an agreement with Parliament quickly and, therefore, provide the Agency with these new competences, particularly for managing resources for combating marine pollution.
The basic element of the proposed amendment is that the Agency generally operates in an auxiliary capacity, without contesting the jurisdiction of the Member States, and provides assistance to the European Commission.
We believe that, when we talk about a protection mechanism, it is obviously preferable to have a perhaps less equipped mechanism but as quickly as possible.
The stand which our party and the European Parliament in general took on the Sterckx report is also indicative in this direction.
The rapporteur's efforts to reach an agreement were difficult in numerous cases, because points of convergence had to be found with certain Member States which had certain matters to put forward concerning the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, these problems were overcome and I should therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
Indeed, we are, I believe, largely in agreement with our fellow MEP’s report.
Two or three words on two or three subjects.
I wish it good luck in the port of Lisbon, but it must not be forgotten that it must also be equipped with regional technical agencies and that we must proceed quickly.
Finally, I read yesterday, in the Commission report on the financial perspectives for 2007-2012, that you were proposing a European border protection agency with a European Corps of Border Guards.
To conclude, Commissioner, I think that the work is far from being finished.
It is important that we should be able to say ‘yes’ tomorrow, especially since we can then put this into law at the beginning of March, thus enabling the EMSA to table proposals for the budget in 2005, which should happen before 1 April.
In this way, we are creating room in which the Agency’s power in the field of oil removal can be translated into practice, and making possible necessary investments in new equipment.
We are in favour of increasing its competences, so that it can provide support in the field of marine pollution – accidental or deliberate – and in the field of civil protection, and so that systematic inspections can be carried out of the safety systems of ships and in port installations.
We are also in favour of the Agency participating in the procedures for recognising qualifications in the maritime professions issued by third countries, to which I would add the power to approve devices which verify compliance with the Marpol rules and others, in order to prevent the waste from oil tanks or bilge oil from being dumped in the sea.
Specifically, we believe that the European Agency must be provided with all the economic, human and material resources necessary to be able to carry out these functions properly.
I would like to thank Mr Mastorakis for his report and express our support for the Commission’s proposal, although we would have liked to have gone a little further. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is appropriate to reiterate that Parliament, the Commission and the Council reacted quickly and efficiently to the tragic accidents involving the and oil tankers off the European coastline.
The fact that we are once again debating this subject here today, with the specific aim of extending the competences of the Agency, is ample proof that, contrary to what often happens in such circumstances, the passage of time and the effects of media pressure following these events have not exhausted our capacity for political action and to keep pace with this issue.
Let us take a look, then, at the fields in which the Commission proposes to extend the Agency’s power to act.
We have always said that the Member States must coordinate their efforts when accidents happen.
There are thus obvious benefits of coordinated Community action in this area and the agency can play an important role.
Secondly, the training of seafarers does not cause any problem, especially with regard to how the agency will participate in the procedures of recognising the certificates of competency of seafarers issued by countries outside the EU.
Thirdly the most contentious issue concerns the agency’s activities in the area of security, since the Commission’s original proposal appeared to impinge on the Member States’ competences in matters of national security and the fight against terrorism.
Nonetheless, the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and approved by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism have succeeded not only in confining the Agency’s scope to clearly defined areas which tally with the new Community competences resulting from the Directive on Ship and Port Facility Security, but also in ensuring that their activities complement the prerogatives of coastal States and do not impinge on them.
It is crucial to avoid a situation in which Community intervention is in danger of compromising the efficiency of systems of command that have proved their worth, as happened, for example, with the coordination of national, Community and extra-Community resources by the Atlantic police port authority at the time when the went down.
The agency’s only possible role is that of simply carrying out inspections of ships and port facilities.
We shall have to be particularly vigilant about this issue, which is extremely sensitive in terms of the security of the Member States, in order to prevent confusion from arising and subcontractors from claiming responsibilities that are not theirs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are all aware that it was following the sinking of the tanker, and the subsequent lack of coordination between the actions of the Member States, that the Commission decided to table the amendments to the regulation that established the European Maritime Safety Agency.
The wreck – and the human, environmental and economic tragedy that it caused in the areas affected, particularly in Galicia – demonstrated the need for intervention to be more effective and for actions between the Member States to be better coordinated.
There is, however, no justification whatsoever for extending the jurisdiction of the agency to areas that are clearly the responsibility of the Member States, as this would entail doubling costs and removing responsibility from Member States.
The crucial question is to ascertain how far the jurisdiction of this agency can and should be extended.
In such circumstances, the agency may provide support, but should not replace Member States.
The agency cannot and must not intervene to combat terrorist attacks; the agency will be entrusted with the competence of monitoring the efficiency of Member States’ ships and port facility security.
Its establishment may contribute towards strengthening maritime safety, in conjunction with national authorities and the support of the various Member States, acting as an additional technical and scientific resource and not as a supranational body that monitors security or even fisheries activities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, I really cannot endorse most of the previous speaker’s comments, especially her concerns about the Agency’s competences.
We need the European Maritime Safety Agency, and we also need an expansion of its competences.
This House has always thrown its weight behind the Agency.
The European Maritime Safety Agency’s primary objective is to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution by ships within the Community, not to undertake general prevention of terrorism.
Madam Vice-President, now that we have embarked on new territory – or waters – by establishing the Agency, we have called for it to draw up a detailed work programme swiftly.
This is because we want to discuss the work programme with you, Madam Vice-President, since responsibility for the Agency lies with you as the Commissioner.
We were always gratified that the Agency started work in Brussels because the work was urgent and necessary.
However, given that the Heads of State or Government have already tinkered around for a long time and trawled around various locations in Europe, and have now decided in favour of Lisbon, we do not want the next two years to be taken up with renting space and getting the premises ready before the real work can begin.
We in this House should be very careful and should not interfere with judicial independence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the sinking of the oil tanker off the Galician coast demonstrated, amongst many other shortcomings, the lack of coordination of the Member States in terms of combating pollution.
The Commission now proposes a modification of the recently approved Regulation establishing the European Maritime Safety Agency, created following the accident, not only to provide support in the field of marine pollution, but also in the protection against illegal actions.
The rapporteur’s amendments specify that the main responsibility in the field of pollution lies with the coastal States, which must have their own resources – which some of us find logical – and that the actions of the Agency will only come into play following a request from the Member State, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
The Commission cannot continue to ignore the need to establish Community response mechanisms or European coordination of the resources of the different States in order to cover emergency situations and respond to disasters.
Secondly, we also back the proposal to give the Agency a role involving certificates of competency of seafarers, provided that the high quality of current training courses remains guaranteed.
As we did a few months ago with self-handling, we must oppose the Commission’s urge to introduce one centralistic model for all ports in Europe, and we remain in favour of the age-old Hanseatic model that has guaranteed prosperity, expansion, employment and the safety of our northern European ports. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the most recent maritime accidents on European shores, all those concerned have finally woken up to the realisation that the time has come to act, in order that we can prevent such accidents and respond to them effectively and without delay.
The primary aim is to prevent and to combat sea pollution accidents and is, accordingly, the one that everyone is aware of.
There is, consequently, an urgent need to monitor routes and make them safe, and to strengthen the existing model, both in terms of inspections and of how frequently these are carried out.
Although it is not a priority for the agency at this stage, growing concern about the threat of terrorist attacks on ships and port facilities has already resulted in the adoption of special measures and international instruments.
This concern might be answered, clearly and unequivocally, in the agency regulation, which would constitute a further aim and would help to raise the confidence of all those involved in all Member States.
In all honesty, nobody can guarantee total effectiveness, but permanent vigilance and care, supported by the necessary detection, correction and information equipment will certainly result in a reduction in activity of this kind.
I feel that the training of seafarers is of the utmost importance – both technical and scientific training in maritime safety and obtaining the appropriate qualification.
In addition to complementing the response capabilities of Member States, the agency’s cooperation is intended to ensure that each Member State is properly equipped to respond to any accident close to their coastline.
The evidence is there for all to see that this is a problem of European dimensions.
We are not only talking about the or the ; we are talking about the thousands of ships that year after year pollute European waters in appalling environmental attacks, to which the Member States have proved incapable of responding.
If there is a problem here it is certainly not that the proposals are too bold; it is that they are too tentative.
Europeans need ambition, they need a response to these problems and they need the European Maritime Safety Agency to say when we will be able to put an end to the scandal of endless marine pollution, when we will see new rules on maritime transport.
In view of this responsibility, this House must be provided with all that it needs and must offer all the help that it can.
The problem is that the Portuguese authorities are facing certain problems with regard to installations and we will have to see whether they are resolved before the end of the year.
But it will not depend on us, but rather on the Portuguese authorities.
In any event I would like to say that 40 people have already been contracted, including temporary and auxiliary staff and eminent national experts.
Other points of risk are the area of the Channel, Brittany, etc.
Finally, I will say that the Agency must also have tentacles in the Mediterranean.
With regard to the responsibilities of captains – and I believe there have been responses from different elements – we all want to see people enjoying every possible freedom, but there is a clear issue, and that is respect for judicial decisions in any country of the Union. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
We believe it is an essential element if we are to maintain sustainable development in the European Union, combine economic growth with quality of life, with competitiveness and with transport which is competitive and respectful of the environment.
When we talk about the intermodality sector, we need a more coherent and rigorous approach to the maintenance and control of units, because it is the units which are going to allow the container – the principle of the container, as we have seen, is the carrier for the future – to be transported by ship, by train or by lorry through our territory.
The Commission’s intention is to create a more harmonised and efficient system of loading units for intermodal transport.
Therefore, only by means of greater harmonisation of loading units can we achieve the performance necessary to slow down the rise in transport costs, of transfers, and make sea transport more competitive when it has to take over from road or rail.
It is they who know what the sector needs in order to achieve the political objectives.
I trust that the Council will carefully study the results of this first reading in Parliament and that it can agree a Common Position quickly and, if possible, a Common Position which supports the proposal which is going to be issued by this Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissioner is right: intermodal transport is competitive only to a limited extent, and the existing units – whether they are containers or swap bodies –cannot be easily used in all four modes of transport.
Firstly, it is far more complex and therefore more complicated to organise, and secondly, there are very few actors who have a clear overview of the whole intermodal chain.
Perhaps it was slightly misleading for the Commission to present the directive as part of the programme for the Promotion of Short Sea Shipping.
Yes, of course it will benefit short sea shipping, but what we are talking about here is the entire transport chain and intermodal standardisation the like of which has not been seen before.
This directive is therefore a first.
We have managed to assuage concerns about this issue through amendments to the Commission’s text.
Cellular container ships, for example, are currently configured according to applicable ISO standards.
We wanted, or want, to create a standardisation procedure based on a mandate, so that standardisation can proceed more quickly.
I am pleased that we have made a start here, sending out a clear signal in favour of intermodal transport. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and thanking him for his work.
Through his positive cooperation, he helped us understand the topic, which was not always an easy task, especially in a technical sense.
A new product must be attractive, in other words, it must be suitable for the market as well as being efficient and complying with modern requirements.
Existing systems will not simply be jettisoned overnight, as this would confront the people working in this sector with the need to undertake new or expensive investment overnight.
I believe that we will persuade them to do so not only by offering subsidies, but by proposing efficient instruments, such as the all-round container, the supercontainer, as you call it, which allows for optimum loading while also taking account of what is happening on the international market and opening up new opportunities such as those you have described.
At first there were various opinions on the matter and even misunderstandings, but the rapporteur managed, through a determined effort, to make headway on this issue and the committee in the end was very much of one mind on the development of the new European loading unit.
For example, 80% of the flow of foreign trade from my country, Finland, goes by sea, and the flexible operation of multimodal transport is absolutely crucial.
Operators in the sector will be given the responsibility for designing the new container in detail.
Our group supports the proposal and we hope that the matter will also make speedy progress in practice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this Parliament has always believed in promoting a sustainable system for the transport of goods in which all modalities are accorded a role.
This latter is a dominant factor in the transport of goods.
The introduction of a new loading unit is an excellent idea, provided it can actually be used in all modalities without any adjustments.
All commotion and comments with regard to this proposal seem to suggest otherwise.
We are therefore delighted that the proposal is more market-oriented in the present report.
There is another area that will require attention during tomorrow’s vote, namely Amendment No 16.
I am very pleased that, especially with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur – which we on the Committee on Transport jointly support – we can establish and ensure here today that we are not proposing a European type of standardised container – I prefer not to use the term ‘supercontainers’ – which could obstruct our global transportation business.
It is, however, my belief that the principles we have set out in the proposed amendments will ensure that the new European loading unit does not conflict with existing international norms.
The industry’s task is to protect its own interests.
Finally, I would like to point out that this proposal contains not only a definition of this new loading unit, but also a requirement for more stringent controls and inspections of all loading units, regardless of type.
In this respect, the Commission is right to propose more frequent and thorough inspections of all loading units. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, we welcome an integrated approach to transport in which adequate use is made of all the types of transport available.
At the same time, we should at all costs avoid a situation in which owners of intermodal loading units are faced with unnecessary obligations and high administrative and implementing costs.
I am pleased that the rapporteur shares my concern in this matter, and that this is also being expressed in the text by means of an amendment.
The introduction of new intermodal loading units, though, does not yet guarantee intermodality.
In addition to the current diversity, the poor quality of the rail services on offer constitutes an important barrier to the growth of intermodal transport.
As already stated, the improvement of transport requires quality legislation in which consideration is given to the scope of the market and which, by correct timing, can be introduced on time in an adequate and harmonised manner.
As the rapporteur has said quite rightly, following this attempt at convergence by means of certain common standardisation measures, other measures will have to be adopted, such as, for example, those relating to dock terminals.
We believe that European standardisation bodies must not be, nor have any reason to be, slaves to the standards laid down by the International Standards Organisation, but that those bodies must decide which are the best possible standards for European intermodal transport, while taking due account, however, of the existing ISO standards and the needs of commerce.
Mr President, I trust that, following approval by Parliament, with the exclusion – I hope – of this Amendment No 6, we can make rapid progress in the Council and thereby launch a proposal for the sector which eases progress towards intermodality, which is absolutely essential. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
If I count up all the issues, directives and regulations over the years, I think I am right in saying that I win hands down.
In any case, I think that we all agree on the importance of what we are discussing today, the entry into force of the 2003 Protocol to the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage (IOPC).
The Protocol still needs to come into force and we therefore need to encourage the Member States of the Union to ratify it quickly.
In the proposal that it put forward in September, the Commission urged the Member States to ratify the Protocol before the end of 2003 and it is now 2004.
The common position adopted on 15 December set the deadline at June 2004 and the Commission made a declaration in this respect, indicating that we would have preferred it to have been ratified before the end of last year.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament for its hard work on this issue, given that the Council only sent the Common Position to Parliament a few weeks ago.
As has just been explained to us, the Convention created a fund to compensate victims of damage and it should be pointed out that it is funded by contributions from the companies or other entities that receive oil transported by sea.
As we have been told, the Commission not only acted swiftly, but with clear political commitment, by asking the Council to move on from the very easy promising phase to the fulfilling phase, which is always more difficult.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all that remains – as my time is running out – is for me to thank the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for the support they have given me, this committee and Parliament’s services for their invaluable help, and the Commission for the political support that it has consistently given.
The report put forward today is necessary and urgent.
A new report by the World Wide Fund for Nature shows that 3 000 kilometres of coastline were affected and calculates the damage to be around 5&#160;000 million euros, in other words, five times the FIPOL Protocol for 2003 would be needed to deal with all of the damage caused.
We therefore continue to call for a European Fund in addition to all the existing international funds, particularly considering the huge amount of oil traffic on our seas and the existence of areas such as the ‘, or the ‘Coast of Death’ in Galicia, which is one of the places where there have been the most maritime accidents in the past, along with other black spots such as the Calais straits, etc.
This is an assent procedure, which means that Parliament has to adopt the decision in order for it to be obligatory and, in this particular case, Parliament has acted quickly, because the letter from the Council requesting the assent is dated 8 January, and tomorrow, 12 February, one month and five days later, Parliament will give its assent.
Firstly, according to Community law, it is not the Member States who have competence in this field, but the European Union as a whole.
We hope that the legal system can be changed so that the European Community itself will be an actual member in order to avoid situations such as this in which particular Member States, such as Austria and Luxembourg, will not be bound by the agreement until 2005.
We cannot continue to operate with old instruments from former ages, in which the Member States were acting to defend national interests, when we are dealing with collective interests, such as preserving the environment across the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, in mid-2001, we discussed the Esclopé report concerning the desirability of the increase of the limit for damages in the case of maritime oil disasters.
The Council’s common position has been long overdue.
We would therefore like to congratulate those Member States that belong to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) on this decision.
It does justice to reality and gives guarantees for an adequate financial arrangement in the case of oil pollution.
I hope that this elaboration of the liability regulation offers encouragement in this respect.
The IMO decided, a long time before the sank, to increase the amount allocated to the FIPOL to compensate victims to EUR 600 million, and in 2000, the Commissioner proposed creating an additional European fund, Compensation for Oil Pollution in European waters (COPE), with a limit of one billion euros.
The proposal received the support of the European Parliament, but was rejected by the Council, which opted to negotiate in the IMO.
Perhaps, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, we will have to get down on our knees, because, from May until now, only two Member States have ratified it and a minimum of eight ratifications are needed in order for it to enter into force.
The system of liability under the two international conventions is a multiple system.
By a happy coincidence, we know that, in May 2003, the protocol for the establishment of the International Fund for Compensation was adopted, with compensation capped at EUR 1 billion.
The rapporteur rightly points out that this must be done as quickly as possible, even before June this year.
The problem is that, as you are well aware, we have not been able to join the Organisation because, among other things, the Council has had the mandate for some time now.
It is a proposal that I made nearly two years ago and, unfortunately, the various presidencies that there have been during that time have been very busy with other matters.
In summary, the Council’s enthusiasm for moving forward in terms of Community presence in the International Maritime Organisation is not across the board.
I think that we need to act on all fronts because sea pollution is something that we cannot tolerate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (1)
