The Council remains seriously concerned about the human rights situation in Cuba, in particular, the lack of progress for civil and political rights.
There are currently 208 political prisoners in Cuba.
Member States' missions in Havana are closely monitoring the list of political prisoners and have a special human rights working group where important cases are discussed.
The Cuban Government denies the existence of political prisoners and regrettably continues to reject international scrutiny of human rights from independent human rights organisations.
The Council approach towards Cuba was set out in the common position of 1996, which has since been evaluated by the Council on an annual basis.
In October 2008, the EU and Cuba agreed on the resumption of a comprehensive political dialogue.
In the conclusions from June this year, we made clear that these issues will remain one of the EU's key priorities in the relationship with Cuba.
The Council particularly urged the Cuban Government to release unconditionally all political prisoners, including those who were detained in 2003, and we expressed our concerns for the prisoners and their health condition.
Equally the case of the other prisoner, Mr Alfredo Domínguez, is also being watched by the Presidency and raised in the dialogues with Cuba, and we do have contact with his family. (DE) Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Malmström for her excellent, detailed answer.
President-in-Office of the Council. - We do not have access to this information formally but, via international organisations, NGOs, contacts, political parties and so on, we do get information - which is a bit fragmented - about the situation of the political prisoners.
We know that in some cases, their state of health is very serious.
In Hungary, ever since the autumn of 2006, there has been mass police brutality against peaceful demonstrators, and many political prisoners have been tortured in prison.
I would like to ask Cuban politicians to please negotiate on our behalf on the basis of all the... (The President cut off the speaker) I am sorry but your speaking time is 30 seconds, and the question is about human rights in Cuba.
President-in-Office of the Council. - The whole European Union has, on several occasions, said that we are against the American embargo and that we think it does not facilitate a future solution on Cuba.
The European Union has also said that we are willing to enter into a closer cooperation with Cuba, including trade, depending on their progress on human rights.
For the moment, however, in view of the lack of progress on human rights and respect for democracy and of the number of political prisoners, it is not possible for us to make any progress on this situation.
I would be grateful if Members would abide by the rules of Question Time, which involve giving a supplementary question of 30 seconds and keeping to the subject of the stated question.
The conference brought together 160 people from 27 countries.
It is the intention of the Presidency that the Council should adopt conclusions on this matter on 30 November at the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council.
The Commission is also urged to draw up an action plan for the dignity, health and quality of life of elderly people.
With regard to the issue of the abuse of elderly people in particular, Council Directive 2000/78/EC already prohibits discrimination in the workplace on account of age.
The Commission proposed that the protection provided by this directive should be extended to a number of other areas such as social security, health care, social benefits, education, access to goods and services, housing and so on.
Of course, we cannot pre-empt the result of the debate in the Council, but I would nevertheless like to say that we are doing all we can to introduce legislation that will help to eliminate all forms of abuse and maltreatment of elderly people, which is fully in line with the opinion issued by the European Parliament.
Perhaps we could come back to this at a later stage. (RO) The European Union has an ageing population.
It was eight years ago that the Swedish-Eritrean journalist, Dawit Isaak, was captured and imprisoned in Eritrea.
Unfortunately, there have been no signs whatsoever of any improvement in the human rights situation in Eritrea over the last few years.
The EU has several times demanded the unconditional release of all political prisoners in Eritrea, including, of course, Dawit Isaak.
On 18 September 2009, the Presidency, acting on behalf of the European Union, issued a very clear statement in which we reiterated our demand for the unconditional release of all political prisoners and stated that Eritrea's actions are in clear breach of the obligations laid down in the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which Eritrea has ratified.
Human rights are a key element in relations between the EU and Eritrea.
Perhaps Mrs Malmström or someone else should also go to Eritrea and try to meet with Dawit Isaak and also with President Isaias Afewerki.
Of course, we will not rule out going there if we believe that it could result in progress on this matter, but for the time being, there is no possibility of obtaining any kind of promise that we would be able to visit him or hold talks about him or to meet his family, who are there in Eritrea.
I would like to begin by reminding Mrs Hedh that the Swedish Presidency has put alcohol and health high on the agenda as an important aspect in implementing the EU strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol-related harm.
The first was the informal meeting of health ministers in Jönköping in July, where the sale and marketing of alcoholic drinks and how they influence the alcohol consumption of young people were given particular attention.
The second event was an Expert Conference on Alcohol and Health in Stockholm on 21-22 September aimed at supporting a sustainable, long-term and comprehensive strategy within the EU with regard to alcohol.
More than 450 people participated from, in principle, all of the EU Member States and the participants lent very strong support to the Swedish priorities in the area of alcohol and health.
The aim was to contribute to a global strategy when the World Health Assembly meets in May next year.
The first report from the Commission, which was tabled at the expert conference a few weeks ago, was a status report in respect of the EU's alcohol strategy.
One of the studies we are funding will examine the effect that the marketing of alcohol has on young people, another will look at the impact of alcohol on elderly people in 10 different EU Member States and yet another will investigate the effect that cross-border trade has on national alcohol policy.
In our draft conclusions on alcohol and health, which are currently under discussion in the Council's working group, we propose that the Commission should be urged to start to analyse and seek out priorities for the next phase of the work on alcohol and health, to emphasise the fact that we need to look at the period beyond 2012 when the assessment and the current alcohol strategy will be concluded.
Based on this debate, the Presidency aims to adopt Council conclusions to support an alcohol strategy in December 2009. (SV) Mrs Malmström, I know that the Presidency has held several constructive conferences and has spent a lot of time on this matter.
My question was about the alcohol strategy, in particular, because I have asked the same question before, about six months ago.
A lot has happened since the Swedish Presidency proposed an alcohol strategy for the EU in 2001.
The alcohol strategy was adopted in 2006 and a lot has happened since then.
I would have liked to have seen the Swedish Presidency go a bit further, perhaps, with regard to advertising, but I am nevertheless pleased that a study has now been carried out on advertising, alcohol and young people.
In the meantime, there is a tremendous amount to do and I can also confirm that many Member States are doing a tremendous amount, as everyone in all the Member States has been made aware of the effects that alcohol consumption has on health. (LT) Minister, at EU level, the number of road accident fatalities is falling, but the ambitious goals will not be achieved next year.
This is the Convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context.
Natura 2000 areas could be affected, as well as areas where there are mines and where chemical ammunition has been dumped.
The barriers to the free movement of workers from the Member States which joined the Union on or after 1 May 2004 are limiting the rights of those countries' citizens and could result in clandestine employment and social dumping.
The Council also pointed out to the Member States that priority must be given to citizens from Member States over labour from outside the EU, and that the protection of citizens from new Member States who were already resident and employed in a Member State will remain during the transitional periods.
The rights of family members have also been taken into account in accordance with the practice in connection with previous accessions.
The Member States have declared that they will endeavour to grant increased access to the labour market to citizens from the new Member States concerned in accordance with national legislation, with a view to speeding up the approximation of their legislation in line with Community legislation.
The Commission also notes that the volume and direction of mobility flows within the EU are driven by general labour supply and demand rather than by rules restricting labour market access.
However, the Council believes that the economic crisis that Europe is currently experiencing should not be used as grounds for continuing to apply the transitional rules.
The most recent review was at its meeting in June 2009, when the Council took note of the Commission's information on the impact of free movement in the context of EU enlargement.
The Commission informed the Council that three of the EU-15 Member States had, prior to 1 May 2009, notified the Commission of serious labour market disruptions or the risk of such disruptions.
Germany and Austria continued to apply restrictions on labour market access by retaining the requirement for a work permit, while the United Kingdom applies a system of ex post registration, which allows workers to start work but requires them to register within 30 days.
In the information it provided to the Council, the Commission also stated that it would ensure that the provisions of the Accession Treaty are complied with and it reserved the right to request clarification from those Member States continuing to apply restrictions. (RO) I would like to ask you whether, as part of the Swedish Presidency's agenda, you have in your timetable any action aimed at trying to continue to persuade Member States which maintain these barriers to the free movement of labour to lift them.
As I said previously, we carried out such a review earlier this year. (DE) Madam President, the fellow Member who asked the question naturally focused in her remarks on the situation in those Member States where parts of the population are emigrating to look for work elsewhere.
The people who have come from other EU Member States have been welcome and have been absorbed into the labour market.
I would like to assure the honourable Member that the issue of good neighbourly relations is brought up by the EU on a systematic basis, most recently at the Association Council meeting on 19 May and at the meeting between the EU troika and Turkey's political leaders in Stockholm in July this year.
That is very positive.
This sort of work could be an important part of the work to prevent illegal immigration and could help to improve neighbourly relations. (EL) Madam President, Minister, I should like to reiterate once again my appreciation of your honest efforts to answer our questions, but may I say that, from what you have said, you are obviously aware of this incident.
Mrs Morvai, you indicated you wanted the floor again.
Madam President, you are probably reading my thoughts because I did not indicate that I wanted the floor, but I wanted to apologise for taking an extra 20 seconds from this extremely lively, huge democratic debate for such an irrelevant question as mass police brutality and political prisoners in a Member State.
If you have a question, you should submit it in the normal way in writing and then it may, if it is appropriate, be answered.
The Presidency responded to a similar question from Mrs Harkin in September and stated then that one of the aims of the Swedish Presidency is to encourage the debate on animal welfare, and this is listed as one of the priorities of our Presidency.
At the meeting on 7 September this year, the Council received news from the Commission that a draft proposal for a review of Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport will be tabled as soon as possible.
In accordance with Article 32 of the Regulation, these aspects are to be included in a report that is to be presented within four years and may be accompanied by a new proposal.
The Presidency can confirm that we intend to start examining the Commission's proposal on the review of the regulation as soon as the Commission submits it.
That is a particular problem, and there the regulations are not being implemented.
Sport is certainly also entertainment, both when the local football club is playing and when there are international competitions.
Thank you for taking the question, because Mr Kelly is very shy and he has not said that he was a former President of the Gaelic Athletic Association, the most important sporting movement in Ireland, and that is why his interest is in sport.
