Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Wojciechowski, and members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the work that has been carried out on this report.
I shall start by placing this proposal in its context.
rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, this is the fifth time the European Parliament is considering the regulation on potato starch production quotas.
Two new Member States, Poland and Lithuania, pointed out as they already had them two years earlier, that the quotas allocated to them are too low in relation to their potential and needs.
Lithuania's quota is approximately 1 200 tonnes.
This is not enough to maintain even one plant, and as a result Lithuania has ceased to manufacture starch, although it needs to manufacture around 4 700 thousand tonnes and wishes to do so.
Poland is the largest producer of potatoes in Europe, or more precisely, in the European Union, but it has been allocated a quota of 144 000 tonnes.
Taken together, the proposed increase amounted to just under 40 000 tonnes, which is less than 2% of the total quota amount of 1 948 000 tonnes.
Twenty members voted against it and 17 in favour.
Thirdly, there is an imbalance in the relationship between the old and new Member States.
In this way, actual manufacture computed over several years would not exceed the maximum limit of 1 948 000 tonnes, and the new Member States would be able to request higher quotas.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, having taken the oath this afternoon, I intend, in my maiden speech, to address the issue of potatoes, starch potatoes to be precise.
This sector, and therefore the producers and their regions, stand to benefit from clarity and certainty where planning and management in their individual businesses is concerned, certainly following the sweeping CAP reforms in 2003 and given the uncertainties associated with WTO negotiations, which are still in progress.
This is, as I see it, a clear message in the direction of the Commission and Council.
The potato is also very well suited to more challenging regions, including the northernmost part of the European Union, and in that sense it is a very valuable crop.
If Parliament rejects this symbolic amendment once again, it will prove that there are really two Unions.
Indeed, while I understand the basic principle of Amendments 5 and 6 and of Amendment 7 - which is the sum of the first two, since it concerns small producers - in terms of proposing to increase Lithuania's quota from 1 211 to 4 855 tonnes - that is, to quadruple it - and Poland's quota from 144 985 to 180 000 tonnes, I feel that, if adopted, these amendments would open up a can of worms and give other Member States the opportunity to ask for the quotas on their produce to be revised at the highest level.
I would remind the House that two years ago the European Parliament almost unanimously supported the idea of reallocating quotas unused by the old Member States to the new Member States.
Commissioner Fisher Boel always says no when Poland is involved.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's words today testify to the fact that some Members of this House are capable of thinking in terms of society as a whole and of understanding the underdog.
The quota allotted to Lithuania is ten times smaller than what is needed in the country.
