Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote - (CS) One positive aspect of the recently approved budget for 2009 is the inclusion of clear priorities, such as support for small and medium-sized enterprises, climate protection and support for the poorest countries in the food crisis.
Unfortunately, we do not have many options for using the budget to solve the financial crisis, not only because it is tiny compared to those of the Member States, at just 1% of their size, but also due to a lack of flexibility in the rules set out in the framework budget for the period 2007-2013.
Therefore, although I realise that the directive includes some highly positive points, I believe it sometimes goes too far, which is why I abstained. - (CS) I am delighted that we have managed to pass the safety of toys directive at the first reading and that we have rejected an absurd proposal from the Greens and some Socialists for mandatory testing of all toys by independent bodies.
This would put small firms in the EU out of business, while at the same time testing toys in China would not guarantee their safety.
Responsibility cannot be delegated to industry; responsibility for clear legislation lies with us! - (SK) I have voted in favour of the report of Marianne Thyssen.
In 2006, thanks to the rapid exchange of information between the Member States, the system received 221 warnings about toys out of a total 924 warnings.
Through today's vote on this directive the European Parliament has taken an important step in the area of toy safety and health and safety protection for children by modernising a toy directive which is now 20 years old.
Through our approval we have taken a step towards broader support for lifelong learning and higher levels of employment, openness, mobility and the social integration of workers and people on educational courses.
The current circulation of goods means that we must re-examine the rules for placing goods onto the market and for checking their conformity to standards. - (CS) (the beginning of the speech could not be heard) deposit insurance, which the European Parliament has proposed in a very flexible way and which I have voted for, is clear.
I would like the guarantee to apply to small and medium-sized enterprises as well, since they perform an irreplaceable role in society throughout Europe and yet in times of crisis they are always the most threatened. (NL) Madam President, I have voted in favour of the resolution on OLAF, because I wholly agree with Parliament's appeal to increase OLAF's independence.
As far as the generous attitude towards spending the funds lawfully is concerned, I am afraid that we will have to call a halt to this ourselves. (NL) Madam President, I have voted in favour of this surprisingly excellent report on FRONTEX, because I can only applaud the appeal made in it for reinforcement of that institution.
In fact, I fully agree with Section 30 of the report, which reminds us that - and I quote - 'Turkey will only become a credible candidate for accession when it is in a position to take on the Community acquis and guarantee full respect for IPR'.
I voted for the López report on the protection of adults, especially with cross-border implications, because I know from experience the necessity of this, but also because I hope this is going to be one step closer to the day when we can see true mobility in Europe.
Sarah Palin was criticised because she did not know what the Bush doctrine was, but I wonder whether MEPs have understood that we have just voted for the Bush doctrine today.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) The EU has decided to create a 'new facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries (the "Food Facility”)', and has approved a total amount of EUR 1 billion over three years.
Initially it was proposed to finance the 'Food Facility' from the margin of heading 2 (Agriculture) of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and then through the revision of the ceiling of heading 4 (External Actions) of the MFF.
However, it was finally decided that it would be financed through the Flexibility Instrument, the Emergency Aid Reserve and redeployment within heading 4 from the Instrument for Stability.
To finance this initiative, the Interinstitutional Agreement is to be modified in order to increase the funds available in the Emergency Aid Reserve for 2008 to EUR 479 218 000 (in current prices).
in writing. - (PT) This new draft amending budget relates to the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund (around EUR 7.6 million, to tackle damage costing EUR 176 million) for Cyprus following a period of severe drought.
The Commission points out, however, that 'taking into account the identification of excess appropriations in 13 04 02 Cohesion Fund there will be no need for fresh payment appropriations for financing the EU Solidarity Fund payments for Cyprus'.
In this report Parliament therefore proposes financing a rapid response to the consequences of this situation, to the tune of EUR 420 million.
in writing. - (PT) In the current financial period (2007 and 2008), the Solidarity Fund has been mobilised nine times (Germany: EUR 166.9 million; United Kingdom: EUR 162.3 million; Greece: EUR 99 million; France: EUR 17.1 million; Hungary: EUR 15 million; Slovenia: EUR 8.2 million and Cyprus: EUR 7.6 million), making a total of around EUR 477.3 million compared to a ceiling of EUR 1 billion per year.
In other words, while the urgent need to provide support in cases of natural disasters is in no doubt, the origin of these funds may be called into question, all the more so if they are 'deducted' from cohesion policy and not, for example, from the appropriations allocated to the EU's progressive militarisation.
in writing. - (SV) The June List believes it to be possible to halve the Member States' fees to the EU.
Our 'no' to the draft budget should be interpreted as a demand for a dramatic cut in the expenditure in the EU budget and a halving of the fee payable by Member States to the EU.
However, it is also useful in terms of territorial planning and local development.
in writing. - (PT) While economic forecasts are pointing to recession in various Member States (some of which are already in technical recession), the Council and Parliament are adopting an EU budget for 2009 which is lower, in terms of payments, than the 2008 budget.
However, if we compare the current draft budget for 2009 with the ceiling specified in the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013 for this year - which we said at the time was inadequate to guarantee 'economic and social cohesion' in an enlarged EU-27 - the situation is even worse, as this budget falls short by around EUR 8 billion!
The EU budget for 2009 is the lowest, in terms of the percentage (0.89%) of Community GNI (Gross National Income), since Portugal entered the European Economic Community.
in writing. - (PL) The 2009 budget does not fully meet our expectations, and only partially addresses new challenges and current concerns.
I voted in favour of its adoption.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the following issues: 1.
I supported the adoption of the report drawn up by Jutta Haug and Janusz Lewandowski on the EU draft budget for 2009.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of the report by Mrs Iacob-Ridzi on the European Job Mobility Action Plan (2007-2010).
The Union has a fundamental role in the harmonisation of national social security systems and the transferability of supplementary pension rights.
You only have to look at the contradictions in paragraphs 15 and 16 to see why we abstained.
It is wage competition, social dumping and the downwards harmonisation of wages that are being considered.
With the creation of a European social security card with very blurred boundaries it is the undermining and dismantling of national social security systems that is being achieved.
The administrative barriers are mainly caused by differences in intra-state laws relating to the labour market, and responsibility for this rests largely with the Member States.
I firmly believe that, through effective media campaigns, people can obtain relevant information about the EURES network, which provides a single point of contact for worker mobility in Europe, the TRESS network or the SOLVIT instrument, which helps to solve problems on the internal market and problems connected with worker mobility.
I voted in favour of this report as labour mobility is a fundamental right granted by treaty to EU citizens.
However, we should always bear in mind that the action of the European Union must take account of the socio-economic differences among the Member States.
At the December session of the European Parliament a vote was held on the European Action Plan for Skills and Mobility, presented by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Mobility may be an essential step towards achieving a new momentum for the European social agenda and meeting a range of challenges, such as demographic change, globalisation or technological progress.
I support the European Action Plan on Skills and Mobility, including the concept of creating an information and advice portal, containing advice on all aspects of occupational mobility, such as job vacancies, healthcare and social insurance, and the mutual recognition of qualifications and training.
in writing. - (SV) Explanation of vote in respect of the report on the implementation of the 'Education &amp; Training 2010 work programme'.
The report contains many constructive recommendations, particularly with regard to measures designed to facilitate mobility within the Member States for students and workers.
As such, the report provides an overview of progress made and a review of the situation of coordination in education and training within the aegis of the Lisbon Strategy objectives of making Europe both the world's most competitive economy and one with full employment by 2010.
In fact, we cannot accept, for example, that modernising higher education involves complementing the Bologna reforms and increasing sponsorship from the private sector, particularly when public higher education is being suffocated, as in Portugal.
Paragraph 4 of the draft report states the view that at least three teaching periods per week should be set aside in the curriculum for sport.
More attention must be given to initiatives such as the Bologna Process and the Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci programmes, which make it possible to study abroad and emphasise the importance of professional mobility in the future.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour Mrs Novak's report on delivering lifelong learning for knowledge, creativity and innovation and, in particular, the implementation of the 'Education and Training 2010 work programme'.
in writing. - (CS) Madam President, I have voted in favour of the 'Education and Training 2010' report of Mrs Novak.
in writing. - (DA) In principle, the Danish delegation within the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is in favour of certain types of toys being required to be certified by a third party to ensure that the products comply with EU rules.
in writing. - (PT) The toy safety directive represents an extremely important step towards ensuring our children's safety.
I must congratulate the rapporteur who, while successfully laying down rules to ensure children's safety, has taken into account the survival and stability of small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector.
in writing. - (FR) Toys have to be safer than other products because children are very vulnerable consumers.
We can therefore be pleased with the compromise reached between Parliament and the Council on a text that sets the toy industry a whole series of safety criteria to meet before a toy can be placed on the European market.
In terms of advances, I would mention in particular the demand for a guarantee from manufacturers that their toys are not harmful to a child's health or safety, the increase of the limit values for toxic metals, the increased prevention of the risks of suffocation and strangulation caused by small detachable parts, and the clarification of warnings on packaging or on toys themselves.
in writing. - MEP Thyssen's proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of toys proposes to increase the safety measures involved in and restrict the use of dangerous heavy metals in the preparation and fabrication of children's toys.
The new legislation also brings physical and mechanical properties into line in order to reduce the risks of suffocation.
It also lays down measures to reinforce market surveillance by the Member States and new obligations for manufacturers.
The toy industry has frequently highlighted the fact that we cannot compromise on the safety of our children, which is why they are in favour of the proposed changes.
On the other hand, it is also a successful and balanced compromise that takes account of the fact that a significant number of the EU's 2 000 toy makers are cautious and acknowledge their responsibility as manufacturers.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Thyssen report and was pleased to do so, even though procedural matters almost got in the way of the final vote.
It is also appropriate that allergenic fragrances be banned and 55 such substances will now be removed from toys.
The directive does stipulate that Member States must carry out random tests, but I fear that this stipulation is too noncommittal.
Compulsory certification by independent bodies could solve this problem.
in writing. - (FR) I found the compromise on the Thyssen report too lax where safety rules and the presence of chemical substances in toys were concerned.
I have always been in favour of stricter monitoring of goods in general, and even more so in the case of goods designed for children.
Vocational education and training are a crucial part of Europe's efforts to tackle the social challenges presented by ageing societies and to realign its position in the global economy and resolve the economic crisis.
For this reason, I feel it is important for Member States to validate non-formal and informal education, especially at a time when the number of graduates from vocational education and training is going to fall dramatically between 2009 and 2015.
Consequently, I believe that it is particularly important for European agencies to actively support the partnerships between Member States and European companies in this area, on the basis of a cost sharing scheme.
ECVET could be a valuable instrument for adapting vocational training and education to the demands of the labour market, on condition, however, that it take into account specific national and regional circumstances.
This system facilitates trans-border mobility, as well as access to lifelong learning in terms of vocational training and education.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which simplifies the accounts process for small and medium sized businesses, reducing their administrative burden.
Mrs van den Burg's report on amendments to certain disclosure requirements for medium-sized companies and obligation to draw up consolidated accounts is a good legal document.
We do not think that Frontex should be militarised and have therefore voted in favour of Amendment 2.
in writing. - (SV) The June List supports the free internal market and welcomes constructive proposals aimed at countering market-disrupting phenomena, including trademark counterfeiting.
in writing. - (PT) The resolution adopted by the European Parliament includes concerns and proposals that we support, although we disagree with some points.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which plays an important part in combating counterfeiting which accounts for some 7-10% of world trade, costing 500 billion euros.
In the civil law tradition an authentic act is one established by a competent public officer or a competent authority and covers not only the act, but also its content.
in writing. - (FR) This report concerning the cross-border use and the recognition of authentic acts presents risks of confusion in a variety of ways.
in writing. - (PT) The European Area of Justice has been developed (both through mutual recognition of legal judgments and through the creation of a culture of legal cooperation between competent authorities) in order to accompany the free movement of citizens throughout Europe.
We must work to ensure that children can overcome post-conflict trauma, through cooperation with UNICEF, which is already present in many at-risk areas throughout the world, in order to secure a satisfactory education and a better future for these children.
