Preparation of the European Council (29 and 30 October 2009) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparation of the European Council.
Mr President, next week, we have a meeting of the European Council.
That is why the European Council will also look at these issues.
The overwhelming 'yes' vote in Ireland and the signature of the Polish President have given the work renewed vigour, but, as you all know, the Treaty cannot enter into force until all of the Member States have ratified it - 26 of the 27 have done so, but we are still waiting for the Czech Republic.
The country's lower house and Senate approved the Treaty, but then 17 senators petitioned the Czech constitutional court to examine whether the Treaty of Lisbon is compatible with the Czech constitution.
We must, of course, respect the democratic process in the Czech Republic.
On 27 October, in other words next week, the country's constitutional court will hold a public hearing on this matter.
As you know, President Klaus has also stipulated certain conditions for signing the Treaty.
The debate in the European Council will therefore depend to a large extent on what happens in the Czech Republic.
In this report, we will present the Member States' views on issues relating, for example, to the European External Action Service - an issue that we will debate here this afternoon - the scope of this Service, its legal position, staffing and financing.
I can already say that, for next week's meeting, this report will provide guidance for the High Representative's considerations to enable him or her, once the Treaty has entered into force, to very quickly produce a formal proposal for how the European External Action Service will function.
The Council should be able to adopt this proposal very quickly, hopefully some time during the next few months.
The major issue at the European Council meeting will be climate change.
Therefore, the EU, with an agreement on the issue of financing, could bring us a good deal further on in the negotiations.
The European Council meeting comes at an opportune time, shortly before the negotiation session of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in Barcelona and the meeting of the G20 finance ministers in St Andrews.
Right now, the EU's environment ministers are meeting to discuss the conclusions concerning climate change.
An important part of the Environment Council's conclusions will be to clarify the EU's strategy for a long-term reduction in emissions and to attempt to reach an agreement that may facilitate our decision regarding raising our emissions reduction target from 20 to 30% compared with 1990 levels.
The European Council will also evaluate the progress made in creating a new framework for the EU's supervision of the financial markets.
I am therefore very pleased that the Ecofin Council was yesterday able to take a major step forward and reach a broad political agreement on setting up the new macro-supervisory body without pre-empting the debate in the national parliaments.
I would also like to say a few words about employment in Europe - an issue that I know the European Council will discuss.
It is therefore important for us to continue with the expansive financial policy.
We have prepared a report on the progress made since January.
The European Council will take note of the report.
The European Council will also adopt the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region.
We had a very rewarding debate on this during Parliament's plenary sitting in September.
I am convinced that this strategy can serve as inspiration for other macro-regions within the EU and, in so doing, strengthen European integration.
The EU strategy for the Danube region is already taking shape and will be ready to be presented in time for the Hungarian Presidency in 2011.
We hope that the European Council will be able to urge all of the relevant players to start implementing the strategy very quickly.
That is absolutely necessary if we want to start tackling the serious environmental problems and achieve the objectives of the strategy.
The Council will welcome the measures that have been taken in the short term - the launch of the pilot project in Malta, for example - as well as the progress made in setting up the European Asylum Support Office.
We expect the European Council to call for further efforts to deal with the current situation in the Mediterranean region and to continue the work towards long-term solutions based on solidarity between the Member States.
In June, the institutions were asked by the General Affairs and External Relations Council to review how the EU can further engage in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
A first draft was discussed at the informal Gymnich meeting in September and the Member States are currently discussing a detailed proposal in the working groups.
The plan will focus on strengthening state capacity and the institutions in both countries.
Without security and control, the economic progress will be lost.
The EU has an extremely important role to play in this regard in both countries.
We will be discussing this at the European Council next week and I will, of course, be available to listen to any comments and questions from the Members of this House. (Applause) President of the Commission. - Mr President, I broadly agree with the lines expressed by Cecilia Malmström on behalf of the European Council.
Let me highlight two main issues: the Lisbon Treaty and all institutional matters on the one hand, and the fight against climate change and the prospects for Copenhagen, on the other.
First of all, I think this European Council should be able to take the final decisions to see the Treaty of Lisbon pass into force.
After the conclusion of the ratification process in Poland, we can now say that all Member States have democratically approved the Lisbon Treaty.
We only need to see the process of ratification completed in the Czech Republic.
At the same time, it is right to push ahead now with the work on implementation and to be ready for the entry into force of the Treaty.
I know that this Parliament is fully committed to this work.
The report starts from exactly the right basis to ensure that the service, like the rest of the Treaty's innovations, makes our Community system even stronger and better performing.
If it can work with the democratic underpinning of this Parliament, the Council's connection with national administrations and the Commission's expertise and European vision, that service can truly become a powerful tool for the European Union to achieve its goals on the global stage.
A communautaire European external service, a service based on the Community method, will be a strong service for Europe and a strong tool for a united Europe projecting its influence in the world.
At the same time, the European Council must take forward an active policy agenda.
A successful outcome at Copenhagen remains a primary concern for Europeans and a major task for the global community.
The task for the European Council is again to find creative solutions, to show that the European Union is united behind the need to fight climate change.
To have an ambitious agenda, we need to have an effective institutional framework, and I come back to my first point.
The Lisbon Treaty is the first Treaty of the enlarged Europe.
We need a strong political will to achieve our goals, and I hope that the European Council at the end of this month will show that will for a strong ambitious outcome at Copenhagen. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) expects the next European Council to bring to an end the overly long period of uncertainty over the European institutions and to provide the necessary impetus to establish the new Commission and also the stable President of the Council and the High Representative planned in the Treaty of Lisbon.
On 27 October, two days before the European Council, the Czech constitutional court will study the compatibility of the Treaty with the country's constitution.
On the other hand, my group deplores the fact that the Czech President, although his parliament has as such adopted the Treaty of Lisbon, has produced a new pretext for delaying his signature, since everyone well knows that this is just a pretext.
I find it regrettable that other countries are following in his footsteps and, in their turn, demanding assurances on this or that aspect of the Treaty.
Everyone in Europe has, directly or indirectly, supported the Treaty and now we must move ahead.
Parliament must be able to proceed with the hearings of future Commissioners as quickly as possible and it must be able to decide on the appointments for all the positions available at the Commission and the Council before the end of the year, if possible.
The PPE group also expects from the European Council some clear guidance on economic policy, drawing conclusions from the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh, which produced mixed results, and we are already seeing in the press that it is as if nothing happened.
Europe must do everything it can to enable its businesses to return to a sufficient level of activity to recruit but also to invest in research.
Finally, on climate, I expect the European Council to produce a strategy suited to the situation, that is, the weakness of our partners' commitments so far, less than two months before Copenhagen.
There are only 50 days before the Copenhagen Summit - 50 days is not much, but it is enough if we know how to be convincing, and therefore I ask you, Mr President of the Council and Mr President of the Commission, to tell us how you intend to use these 50 days.
My group, the PPE, appeals to the sense of responsibility of each of the EU's 27 Member States. (Applause) Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Mr Barroso, before I look at the institutional issues, I would like to make a brief remark about Copenhagen.
Yesterday, the President of the Commission gave a positive response to Stephen Hughes's request.
Firstly, with regard to the lack of a signature from Václav Klaus, I am assuming that the constitutional court will make a positive judgment.
I would like to remind my fellow members from the Czech Republic that before their accession, we commissioned a report on the Beneš Decrees - Mrs Malmström, you will remember, because at that time you were one of us - which investigated whether the Beneš Decrees presented an obstacle to the accession of the Czech Republic.
The Treaty of Lisbon has two main objectives: on the one hand, more democracy in Europe, which includes more parliamentary democracy, in particular in the European Parliament (Protests) you do not want that because you are not in favour of more democracy - and, on the other hand, more efficiency.
That is very important.
Of course, we need an External Action Service, not only for the reasons mentioned by the President of the Commission and to provide effective regulations concerning unity and a common foreign policy, but also for reasons of parliamentary control.
I know that we must find a compromise.
Mr Swoboda, could you comment on that?
In that respect, it is absolutely necessary that the Council speeds up the procedure for the nomination of the new Commission, and puts forward as fast as possible the package for the President of the Council and the High Representative.
I repeat that this is the best way to show President Klaus that he is right, that the train is running faster and faster every day, and that there is no other option for him than to put his signature under the Treaty.
My second point is about the External Action Service.
I hope that the Council can reach agreement on that, but not any agreement.
I would like to ask you very, very urgently not to respond to a bad loser who obviously does not even respect Czech law, because he does not respect the constitutional majority which voted in favour of the treaty in the Czech Republic and who disregards the legislation in the Czech Republic, when he demands an opt-out for the Czech Republic concerning the validity of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In my opinion, that would be one step too far in relation to this Czech troublemaker.
The citizens of the Czech Republic, who have done so much for the reunification of Europe when the Germans fled there, deserve something better.
That is all I have to say on President Klaus. (Applause) On the subject of climate change, Mr Barroso, you have rarely heard me agree with you as much as I will today.
However, the preparations for Copenhagen are certainly not a game of poker.
From 2020 onwards, EUR 100 billion should be available to help the developing countries to meet the obligations concerning climate protection that they must then take on and to carry out their adaptation measures.
This would amount to around EUR 3 billion from 2020 onwards for a country like Germany.
In comparison to what we are currently making available in economic recovery packages or to rescue the financial sector, this is peanuts.
The financing for this international fund must be transparent.
Mrs Malmström, I believe that the Swedes are doing the correct thing in the negotiations.
The objective is to reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by 2020.
I believe that you should finally convince your state-owned company Vattenfall not to invest consistently and unrestrictedly in coal throughout Europe and, in particular, not to invest primarily where no certificates need to be purchased.
This strategy on the part of Vattenfall goes against your good reputation in the preparations for the world climate negotiations.
I think Mr Reinfeldt and his government deserve our thanks for the way they have done this but, as has been the situation in many Presidencies, they have also had to accommodate a lot of internal institutional distractions - in this case, in relation to the Lisbon Treaty.
Institutional theology is not the priority of the citizens of Europe.
Despite all this, I do hope that the Swedish Presidency is able, in the time remaining to it, and indeed at the summit, to focus the attention of all European leaders on the major issues that concern the people - those issues they concentrated upon at the start of their Presidency regarding the economy, Europe and indeed climate change.
I wish them well in the remaining time and thank them for their work so far.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Mr Barroso, there has been much speculation over staffing issues during the last three months and over the possible entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which my group has rejected for three good reasons.
If this is really as simple as it seems to be in practice, I would ask the Heads of Government to think more carefully about a social progress clause in the Treaty of Lisbon.
I have not yet identified any strategy within the policies of the Member States or the policies of the Commission which might lead us towards these objectives.
Of course, the Council must now consider the appointments to the new Commission and the possible changes to the Treaty of Lisbon.
If they do give you what you want, it will need to be reratified in 25 Member States, which will mean that the British will have a referendum, and I am sure, as democrats, you would all like to see a British referendum on this Treaty.
Well I have reached the conclusion that I want Tony Blair.
Please do appoint Tony Blair, the man that gave away GBP 2 billion of the British rebate in return for nothing; the man who promised us a referendum on the constitution and refused to give it to us.
I know that it might not be popular in this House, but it is my genuinely-held belief that in the United Kingdom, there should be a referendum on the Treaty.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to make a few comments now, even though I will, of course, remain here until the end of the debate.
I can assure both Mr Verhofstadt and the honourable Members that the Swedish Presidency is in very close contact with the Czech Republic and we hope very soon to be able to give a more exact and definite answer to the question of what is to happen with the Treaty and when.
We will have all the preparations in place for the Treaty of Lisbon to enter into force as soon as we have all the ratifications.
I would also like to express my thanks for the huge amount of support that Members from all groups have shown for the Presidency's absolute top priority, namely to reach an agreement in Copenhagen.
This is extremely important.
There is a huge amount of responsibility resting on Europe's shoulders to settle the issue of financing so that we can show that we are taking our share of the global responsibility and can send out the appropriate signals.
Institutional issues are extremely important.
In this regard, the Treaty of Lisbon is an important instrument.
If we can move forward and achieve results at the summit and later in the autumn, then I believe that it will create a very good basis for increased legitimacy and trust in the European institutions.
In fact, there are difficulties, because there is a clear lack of ambition on the part of some developed countries in terms of a concrete commitment to reduce emissions.
The largest economies in the developing countries are also unwilling to integrate their national plans for mitigation with the global agreement and, at the moment, there is no credible financial plan.
Consequently, it is our job to continue to demonstrate ambition and leadership but, at the same time, and here I am replying in concrete terms to Joseph Daul, to say that our offer, especially our financial offer, is a conditional one.
It is therefore important to make a conditional offer in financial terms, but to rein in our ambition would be a mistake.
I believe success is still possible in Copenhagen.
It should also be recalled that Australia and Japan have announced ambitious goals - not yet in binding terms, certainly, but at a political level.
Let us, therefore, emphasise these positive aspects and create this dynamic and I hope that the European Council at the end of this month will not supply the sceptics and the Cassandras, who are already saying that we need a plan B, with ammunition.
The British Government has negotiated the Treaty.
The British Government has signed the Treaty.
Secondly, I hope that there is no one in this Chamber who is playing off parliamentary democracy against the citizens and who sees a dividing line between us and our job as representatives of the citizens, as he has implied.
My second point concerns supervision of the financial markets.
We must put in place a supervisory body for the European financial markets which has the authority to take the necessary measures, similar to the European Central Bank. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, the demand from Václav Klaus for an addition to the Charter of Fundamental Rights is both arbitrary and superfluous.
The European Council must make the necessary preparations, but should not jump to any hasty conclusions.
This applies also to the European External Action Service.
This treaty gives us the legal basis for a common energy policy and for a common climate protection policy.
Germany and other countries must give way, as we need a fair deal both within the EU and between the EU and the developing countries throughout the world. (FR) Mr President, I would like to ask three questions.
Firstly, there is the issue of climate change.
Everyone can see that the European Union has a special duty to lead the nations of the world in Copenhagen.
To do this, we must be demanding and ambitious as far as goals are concerned, but we must also acknowledge the debt we have to developing countries.
I am thinking particularly about Afghanistan, where I want to note that the number of European soldiers committed is almost the same as the number of US soldiers.
We have a lot of catching up to do in these areas in particular.
I said that the Treaty of Lisbon was on the home straight, but it is here in particular that it can easily be thrown off course.
If what I found out yesterday is true, then he has even been given assurances of this kind.
However, we are not in the Middle Ages, we are in Europe and Europe is a community based on law, a democracy.
They have, of course, done this for good reason, because they want the Charter of Fundamental Rights to apply in the Czech Republic.
Europe is a community based on law, a democracy.
It is absolutely clear that the next meeting of the European Council will be dominated by institutional questions and the process for ratifying the Lisbon Treaty.
In the debates on the future direction of the EU, we should, in my opinion, behave towards each other with an appropriate sense of humility and, at the same time, we should calmly respect the sovereign decision-making mechanisms of the various Member States and their constitutional actors.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was already agreed during the last parliament that the Baltic Sea region was suitable for a pilot project aimed at implementing an internal EU strategy for the macro-region and I am therefore pleased that this particular Council decision will most probably be ratified.
Youth unemployment is 24% in France, 25% in Italy and 39% in Spain.
Nevertheless, we can be sure that the European Council meeting will be saturated with a colossal triumphalism in the context of mass unemployment.
The first priority during the European Council meeting must obviously be to find a solution so that the Czech Republic can finalise the procedures for ratifying the Treaty of Lisbon.
The economic and financial crisis, along with the special financial measures adopted last year, have destabilised in an alarming way the public finances of the majority of the European Union's Member States.
So far the Commission has 17 of the 27 Member States in its sights for having an excessive deficit, with estimates showing that another three Member States will soon be in the same situation.
However, we need to take into account the specific situation of each Member State separately and the European institutions must acknowledge that we are not yet at the point where public support can be waived completely for all economic sectors.
Member States must agree on continuing the recovery strategy and on suitable instruments for supporting this, including stepping up structural reforms which may, in the medium term, reduce the fiscal deficit and naturally contribute to economic recovery.
Hopefully, the financial crisis work group that Parliament has set up will be a new source of guidance.
The objective must be the regulation of the financial markets.
Over-regulation, however, must not be allowed to prevent growth and employment. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Mr Barroso, Mrs Wallström, I am guessing, Mrs Malmström, that you have so many subjects to discuss that you would rather have two weeks than two days for the summit next week.
However, what is new is that this time, it is possible to discuss everything from the perspective that the EU will really be able to function more effectively and that we will have a new treaty.
This is an exciting prospect and, therefore, you should now act quickly to implement a common supervisory structure for the European financial markets, to put in place a common foreign policy and to prepare for the summit in Copenhagen.
The Finnish Government recently recognised the right of all citizens to have a broadband Internet connection as a universal service.
This service is, in fact, an element of economic development, social justice and territorial balance, because it guarantees access to information, thus preventing the digital divide.
Many speakers in this debate have spoken, without any apparent irony at all, of the Lisbon Treaty bringing increased democracy and accountability to the EU institutions, forgetting that they deliberately took a view that there should be no democracy or accountability in the progress of that Treaty itself.
In the 2005 UK general election, all three main political parties committed themselves in their manifestos to a referendum on the European Constitution, as it then was.
You cannot, on the one hand, argue that it will bring increased democracy and accountability to the EU whilst, at the same time, denying the electorates of the EU any say whatsoever on this document. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to make a few points which, in view of the possible entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, must be developed, and also, I would say, above all, in the light of the very significant effect of the German constitutional court's recent judgment on the Treaty of Lisbon.
I should like to concentrate in particular on the issue of the lack of democratic legitimacy as a result of two aspects: the inadequate representation in the European Parliament, and also in the various European institutions, of countries with the largest populations, and the lack of consideration shown for the national parliaments with regard to the exercising of sovereign powers at European Union level.
The judgment by the German constitutional court, precisely because of its authority and its strength, should have led, and should still lead, to a comprehensive legal and political debate in this House that specifically deals with the dangers, the risks that may arise as a result of the European Union federalisation process introduced by this treaty.
There are dozens of stateless nations that should be mentioned, bearing in mind the fact that what the founding fathers wanted to build was a Europe of the nations, not a federalist Europe or a Europe of the biggest interests. (DE) Mr President, with regard to the subject of illegal immigration in the European Union, I would like to point out that there has been a significant and very serious increase over the last year.
Particularly during this economic crisis, we must do something for the citizens in the fight against unemployment and similar problems.
This is why I am asking President Klaus to clear the way for the treaty which has been ratified in all 27 countries.
In the Czech Republic, the constitutional court has said 'yes' to the treaty on two occasions and it will do so again for a third time.
It is also perfectly clear that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is only applicable in the context of European law.
In this context, I would like to make another comment.
The implementation of the treaty must reflect the three principles of the draft constitution and the Constitutional Convention: efficiency, transparency and democracy.
At this point, I would like to mention the External Action Service in particular, as we will be debating this subject again this afternoon.
Transparency, democracy and, in particular, the principle of community must not be sacrificed in order to achieve efficiency.
As a result, a vast majority is now in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon, including the majority of your own people. (CS) I would like to make a few comments ahead of the European Council meeting concerning the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty in my own country, the Czech Republic.
The Czechs have given a clear 'yes' to the Lisbon Treaty through their elected representatives in both chambers of parliament.
All of the public opinion polls indicate that they want President Klaus to sign the Treaty quickly.
The Czechs also want to be guaranteed the same human, civil and social rights in Europe as other Europeans.
It is sad, regrettable and demeaning to the role of the Czech President to drag the Sudeten Germans into this game 65 years after the end of the Second World War.
Mr Barroso said just now that the carbon market in emerging countries will cover most of the EUR 100 billion a year estimated cost of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
But there is no certainty that the international carbon market will deliver EUR 38 billion a year in financial flow to developing countries.
What is blocking energy efficiency in our own Member States is the lack of up-front funding mechanisms, yet we are assuming that developing countries can find their own money.
We need to have extra finance. (DE) Mr President, I would like to make three comments on the forthcoming Council meeting.
Firstly, the Irish 'yes' vote is, in my opinion, primarily a result of the financial crisis, while the banks were rescued a year ago with taxpayers' money.
The EAS should be based on the Community method with the clear involvement of the Commission and the European Parliament.
The condition for a strong, coherent foreign policy is democratic legitimacy, which can only be provided by the strong involvement of the European Parliament.
This involvement should be considered at two stages: ex ante consultation of the Parliament during the process of setting up the service, and ex ante consultation of the Parliament in setting foreign policy goals.
Once the High Representative and the service are in place, the European Parliament should have a strong mandate to play an active role in the scrutiny of the EU's foreign policy and the service.
The democratic legitimacy of the new service also depends on its composition.
Fair representation of all Member States in the EU institutions is a core principle, and the EAS should be no exception. (FR) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, more than four months after the election of this European Parliament, you are going to convene a European Council at a time of indecision for the European Union, with a Commission which is still in place to deal with day-to-day matters.
If we do not want to drive European citizens completely to despair, it seems to me that this European Council could send out two messages.
The budget proposed to us today is a budget which will not even finance the second part of the recovery plan that you designed a year ago.
I think these two further endorsements will, I hope, facilitate the Swedish Presidency to preside over the full ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
Before the Irish 'yes' vote, 27 million EU citizens voted 'yes', 24 million voted 'no'.
This is a real opportunity for the EU to be responsive to the real needs of its citizens, but we need greater investment. (NL) Mr President, it is good that the European Union is savouring the success of the Irish referendum for a while.
Of course, we are all concerned about the Czech Republic.
Copenhagen and the success of this conference is a source of hope, not only for Europe but also for the world.
Important technological developments in Europe, for example, CO2 storage, can also help to combat the economic crisis.
This brings me to my third point: the economic crisis.
Yet these plans are still very remote to many citizens, who are largely unaware of them.
Financial supervision of banking institutions is also very important, and I hope you are able to make progress on this, too, next week.
Last week, at the meeting of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the complaint was raised that the Commission, the Council and Parliament are still achieving too few tangible results. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the time has come for this House to stop the endless debate on the Treaty of Lisbon, which we have still heard going on today.
I believe that we must respect the wishes of this Parliament, of the great European countries, of the 27 and of the 26 that have ratified this treaty in various forms, but democratically, and thus the offences to the treaty and its democratic content must also be rejected.
I also believe that the Council meeting at the end of the month will be an important opportunity to reaffirm the need to revive the idea of Europe beyond Lisbon and to revive the economy, as well as to ensure that Europe does not back down over the major issue of climate change.
Therefore, if we 500 million Europeans want to remain the world's biggest economic power, a power that is preparing to become a major political player on the international stage, I urge the Commission to fully carry out its mandate of proposing European legislation on the major issues relating to the economy, the economic recovery and the labour market recovery, and I urge the Council to turn a long list of headings into an actual policy to help resolve the economic difficulties.
Another point I would like to discuss is the Ankara Protocol.
The Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs said in a public interview in The Hague that Turkey will not ratify or implement the Ankara Protocol.
That is a statement in an authorised interview in de Volkskrant of 7 October 2009.
The deadline is 1 November.
I say this because, in the debate, we sometimes talk as if it was a matter of formulating the best solution here in Europe or in a particular country.
This means that pragmatism and results must take precedence.
This type of solution must also be based on all countries being prepared to make a commitment.
This means that the debate about getting away from the large budget deficits is much more important than what individual financial market regulations should look like.
Could I say that when we speak about solidarity, it is not about the big against the small, and one fear that I have is that the new G20 could impact negatively on small countries and medium-sized countries which are emerging in these new markets.
Global challenges to Europe cannot be solved without efficient common institutions and common policies.
However, today's Europe needs more than ever the far-sightedness, moral commitment and perception of common European values that inspired our founding fathers to break the vicious circle of history and national egoisms.
The Council cannot give in to the blackmail of the President of the Czech Republic.
The Treaty of Lisbon is essential for the better functioning of the European institutions, in addition to providing other benefits, such as strengthening the powers of the European Parliament and the rights of citizens.
The Council and the Commission should give President Klaus a deadline for him to start behaving like the President of a democratic country that is a member of the European Union.
My second point is about the Copenhagen conference.
But also within that generation, the population of the world will have increased by about two billion people.
It is crucially important that the High Representative, Minister for External Affairs, whatever title you want to give that person, will have a lot on his or her plate, much to do, but there is one single issue which commands and must command our particular attention.
The process ushered in by the Lisbon Treaty will strengthen the Union both internally and in a global context.
The way to achieve these objectives is full support, effective implementation and sufficient respect for existing laws and instruments relating to the protection of human rights and civic freedoms.
It must also be our strategy to strengthen police cooperation and the enforcement of rights as well as improving security in Europe.
The internal security strategy must be developed with a view to combating mounting extremism in the Member States, eliminating the tension stirred up by irresponsible politicians and through concrete solutions over such sensitive questions as, for example, immigration, asylum policy or the issue of the Roma and national minorities in such a way that these issues are not exploited by right-wing extremists.
Europe will need a flexible immigration policy which can respond to the needs of society and the labour market in the various EU Member States.
In relation to securing a credible immigration and asylum policy which is sustainable in the long-term, we must, however, pay close attention to the problem of illegal migration, which is a serious concern for our citizens. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, be brave, be brave, be brave, that is the recommendation that I feel like making ahead of the Council meeting and, for this reason, when it comes to debating the nominations for the new commissioners, the new European Union Foreign Affairs Minister and the President of the European Council - thus the people who, together with President Barroso and the other commissioners, will have to oversee European policy in the near future - the only method of decision making to be used is that of considering the best possible interests of European citizens.
To conclude, I should like to cite the words uttered by Pope Benedict XVI the other day - which I would be delighted, just once, to see upheld in the next European Council too - because they are words that provide a timely reminder of the responsibility shared by all citizens and by all political representatives, which is to fulfil the request that we seek in unity and in the common search for truth, that crucial incentive that we need to start building something important for ourselves and for future generations.
It is a fact that Václav Klaus refused for years to appoint a particular lawyer as a judge simply because he had lost a dispute with him in court, nor does he respect the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court.
Along with this lawyer, 500 million European citizens have become hostages to the whims of our President.
Article 345 of the Lisbon Treaty even states explicitly that it does not apply to ownership issues in the Member States.
The Charter does not create new legal possibilities over and above those that already exist for ownership disputes in the Czech Republic.
In conclusion, I would like to call again on the Council to stand by the Czech Republic in opposition to the one-sided introduction of visa requirements by Canada against Czech citizens and to take a decision on joint sanctions. (EL) Mr President, my speech will concentrate on three points.
First point: the economic crisis.
The crisis indiscriminately hit all the economic systems, both the strong and the less strong.
Second point: climate change.
The European Union is rightly at the vanguard of global ecological diplomacy.
I absolutely agree with the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, that, in the run-up to the Copenhagen Summit, there is no plan Β.
Obviously we need to proceed more quickly in adopting a common immigration policy.
I agree with everyone who says that the Council must draw some ambitious conclusions.
However, I would advise against looking only at the industry which has been covered by the Emissions Trading System since 2005, when considering both financing and the issue of who must bring about the reduction.
We need more industries to take responsibility in order to achieve our objectives and to guarantee financing.
If we want to be successful in Copenhagen, it is essential that we speed up what we are doing.
Secondly, I would like to say that I know that the discussions will be very informal, but the Council must also be discussing the composition of the new Commission.
In all the Member States, in the European Parliament, even in the US, this area forms part of health policy.
The President of the Czech Republic, Václav Klaus, is acting within the framework of established rules.
Putting pressure on the President in fact affects not only him personally, but also the many millions of citizens of the countries of Europe who have announced serious reservations about this document.
At the forthcoming European Council, the leaders of the Member States of the European Union should think deeply about the advisability and the consequences of consciously by-passing the will of the citizens whom they represent. (RO) The European Council will be invited to adopt the strategy on the Baltic Sea region.
The Danube region covers 10 states, six of which are Member States of the European Union, with a population of 200 million.
This number includes 75 million people who live in areas bordering the Danube.
This should be the time to commit to tackling the severe unemployment which continues to rise, and which could reach 30 million within the next year if we do not take appropriate measures immediately.
I would like us to guard against this kind of legal jiggery-pokery and nonsense for three reasons.
Firstly, I believe that we would create a dangerous precedent whereby any constitutional expert would feel that they can interfere in a contract retrospectively and, as we can see, this is dangerous because the Slovak government has already stated that if Klaus can do so, they would like to as well.
What the Irish were asking for was also originally included in the Treaty of Lisbon, and they were not objecting to what was not in it.
At the next European Council and in the important context of climate change, the 27 absolutely must agree on the way the European Union thinks about aid to developing countries.
The European Commission had already made its proposals and I very much hope that we can take the initiative and carry our partners with us to achieve the global solidarity required to overcome the problem of climate change. (FR) Mr President, my question is aimed at the Presidency-in-Office of the Council.
This is one industry, but the entire world economy suffered as a result. (SL) Ladies and gentlemen, the conference in Copenhagen will soon be upon us and yet we have only moved a small step forward since last year's conference.
We find ourselves struggling, not only with the financing, but even to make a commitment on individual countries' emission reduction targets.
Likewise, we should clearly voice our expectation that President Obama take advantage of his appearance in person to bring about a successful conclusion to the conference. (CS) Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council is undoubtedly an important body and it should therefore resolve fundamental issues.
The number one issue is to provide work that can ensure people a decent standard of living.
The European Council should reject such voices out of hand and, at the same time give, a clear signal that its primary aim is to get industry moving again and to resolve the critical situation in agriculture.
In conclusion, I would like to say to all those who have desperately resisted ratification of the Lisbon Treaty by referendum: put your own house in order, and if you are unable to explain what is good about this Treaty to your own citizens, do not lecture others. (ES) Mr President, I would like to mention the challenges we must face and overcome in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, namely, establishing a proper, joint migration and asylum policy; effective control of our external borders; an effective integration and repatriation policy, a Eurojust that is credible and trustworthy; a Europol to serve the Community, under the control of the European Parliament; progress in terms of harmonising the field of civil and criminal justice; effective transatlantic relations, especially with the United States, based on trust and equality; an equitable solution to the issue of SWIFT data; an effective data protection policy; better protection for the euro against counterfeiting and active promotion of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. (FR) Mr President, my question is very simple.
In June 2008, the Irish people voted against the Lisbon Treaty.
However, the Commission must also engage in a proper PR strategy to bring that good work home to the citizens.
As the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has already said, we are calling for President Klaus to show a responsible attitude and ratify the Treaty by the date of the European Council at the end of October.
Otherwise, we are going to remain stuck in this institutional debate and we are not going to be able to focus on the real problems which ordinary citizens are facing, such as the economic and financial crisis, unemployment and social inclusion, nor are we going to be able to reinforce the European Union's image as a genuine global player.
I believe that we have discussed the merits of this Treaty so much that there is no point in us reviving this debate.
What we are interested in now is that at the next European Council, we can confirm that the ratification process has been finalised in all Member States so that we can move on to the next stage of establishing the College of the Commission.
We are in intensive talks with our friends in Prague and we hope very, very soon to be able to present to you a proposal for resolving this issue.
Yes, Mrs de Sarnez, we hope to be able to make progress in discussions on a more unified European view with regard to Afghanistan, based both on the military presence that the European Union has there and on increased support for civil society and the democratic, state-building processes.
It is difficult to put European election observers in place in such a short space of time, but we will, of course, do our best to achieve this.
We will not manage this by the end of the year, partly because we need the Treaty of Lisbon to enter into force first.
The Commission will report on the progress that has been made in this regard.
Mr van Baalen, the issue of the Ankara Protocol is important.
This issue will not be discussed at this summit, but we will discuss enlargement later in the autumn, with a possible decision being taken in December.
As soon as the Treaty is in place, we will have time to review any legal adjustments that may be required to guarantee that every State can retain its commissioner, and we will do this.
A number of States have already made preparations in order to be able to send the Members in question here quickly.
Mr Audy, the national voting system is a bit more complicated in some States.
Finally, I would like to express my thanks, not only for this debate, but also for the extremely strong support that this House is giving the Presidency with regard to the issue of the climate.
We will do our utmost to make it possible to take decisions on European funding at the European Council meeting, based both on the European contribution and on our contribution in relation to the developing countries, thereby allowing us to send out a strong signal and to give the international negotiations a boost to make them as successful as possible in Copenhagen.
It is the most serious and important task facing our generation to take appropriate, concrete steps to combat global warming and put in place a global regulation.
I am very grateful for the support and commitment that the European Parliament is showing in this regard.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, thank you very much for this lively and interesting debate.
As you will understand, the Commission, like Parliament, is eagerly awaiting the entry into force of this new Treaty.
We all know that the political process of approval has now been concluded in all Member States.
We of course hope that the Czech Republic will very soon be in a position to ratify the Treaty.
We also need the Service to be fully accountable to this House - to the European Parliament.
We must also respect the fact that it is for the High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission to make a proposal in agreement with the Commission.
As President Barroso said yesterday in the Question Hour, what has been done so far is not enough.
Unfortunately the majority of these proposals are pending before the Council, so again we hope that the European Parliament will help us to put pressure on the Member States to actually move forward on these issues.
I would also like to say something about financial market supervision which has, of course, regularly appeared on the Commission agenda over recent months.
We hope Parliament will give its support to this.
Finally, let me say something about the topic which also features at the top of the Swedish Presidency's agenda, namely climate change, because we only have a few weeks to go to the Copenhagen conference.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - There is fevered speculation that Tony Blair may be appointed the first President of the European Union under the Lisbon Treaty/European Constitution.
The EU and Tony Blair deserve each other.
Mr President, we assume that the agenda of the forthcoming European Council will also include the economic crisis, in particular the situation with Opel.
It is unacceptable for healthy, profitable plants to be closed because the Member State in which they are situated is unable to provide as much State aid as another - larger and more powerful - Member State.
CARS 21 was, and remains, a praiseworthy plan, but it is far from sufficient.
Europe must produce a vigorous plan for the future that drastically accelerates the development of the sustainable electric car.
It is time to creep out of our defensive position and to give all the workers in the largest industry in Europe a positive signal.
One of the prime objectives of the next European Council will be to ensure the success of the UN Conference on climate change, which will take place in Copenhagen in December.
The Council's conclusions on the EU's position in the Copenhagen conference are fundamental for ensuring that the EU speaks with one voice.
The EU should demonstrate that it is united and set an example of leadership, especially by helping developing countries, which will face costs of about EUR 100 billion per year from 2020 in order to adapt to the impacts of climate change and reduce their emissions.
Establishing the structure of a funding system for developing countries, particularly the least developed, is of paramount importance, along with defining the sources and amounts of this funding, so as to ensure an agreement in Copenhagen.
This agreement will allow a protocol to come into force that will replace the Kyoto Protocol from 1 January 2013 and will ensure an effective reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, while allowing European industry to remain competitive in global markets.
We are hoping that by the final October session of the European Council at the latest, the final obstacles will have disappeared preventing the Treaty of Lisbon from coming into force.
This agreement may, in many respects, inspire the European Union to have a more efficient decision-making process.
Based on the events of the last few years, I think that the new chapter will set out the guidelines in the EU's energy policy.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon does not in any way, at least when it comes to energy policy, present us with a ready-made solution.
Against this background, the message conveyed by our partners in Ireland is in support of solidarity among Europe's citizens.
In my opinion, our task is to deal with an issue where clear-cut principles must take priority over any feelings of pride of the moment.
It is our duty to offer the European Union consistency, efficiency, a long-term future and balanced development for all regions so that it can face up to the challenges on the global political stage, whether we are talking about the economic crisis, climate change, our common identity, etc.
