The January 2008 deadline is obviously what makes this year so crucial for EPAs.
Negotiators must press on to reach a mutually beneficial settlement on EPAs that will help ACP countries develop and support international trade relations.
The scaling-up of trade facilitation, technical assistance and support to help ACP producers meet EU standards must be sufficiently extensive to offset losses from tariff revenues and help ACP countries take advantage of market access.
The EU must be accountable for all of its development assistance and, together with the ACP, must set clear goals that boost ACP competitiveness and growth.
Mr President, I regard this report as very constructive, very realistic and very welcome.
None provides the legally secure trade regime or links to development that EPAs do.
That is why I am determined that we will take the opportunity that EPAs present to us.
To turn away in the face of challenge would be to neglect our duty to give the ACP the economic future they deserve.
The Sturdy report calls for full duty-free, quota-free market access into Europe, and this is what we propose.
This delivers on our promises to take the greatest commitments on market access and hand the full flexibility of WTO rules on exclusions and implementation over to the ACP themselves.
We must help the ACP grasp the new trading opportunities that EPAs will provide.
In line with the spirit of Cotonou, we need constantly to point out that the EPAs must not amount to mere free trade agreements, under the World Trade Organisation, but must represent a genuine partnership, making it possible to develop a new intervention framework that is conducive to the development of the ACP countries' economies and, therefore, to consolidate peace, not least on the African continent, with a regional integration dynamic.
It is because of these problems that the ACP countries are not operating within the world economy; if anything, they are moving away from it.
The Commissioner is familiar with the difficulties that deadlines present.
We have already spent a great deal of time discussing the EU's aid for trade this morning and the two rapporteurs worked closely to ensure that these two reports went hand in hand.
Partnership agreements with ACP countries should be in line with the European Union's economic strategy.
The whole European Union should instead do all it can within the WTO to gain recognition for a transitional regime, under which a trade preference system benefiting the ACP countries will be maintained until such time as a new agreement is finalised.
It is very important for our partners in the ACP countries to understand this too.
We must re-open the negotiations on new foundations so as to address the concerns raised in the ACP countries concerning the impact of the EPAs on the future of their economies, many sectors of which could not withstand the lowering of customs protections or a situation in which they face uncontrolled competition with the European economy.
We must offer those who have not signed an EPA by the end of 2007 market access that is at least equal to the preferences from which they benefit now, with none of them having to find themselves back in a more unfavourable situation at the end of the agreements.
Furthermore, the parliaments of the ACP countries and the European Parliament, together with civil society, must have access to all the elements of the negotiations and must be consulted and involved as they take place.
The fact that the Council agreement on the forthcoming financial perspectives has made insufficient provision for the proposed EUR 190 million needed annually for countries from the sugar protocol is not a good sign.
If they do not wish to open up a market, we must do as is stated in paragraph 17 of the resolution and not force them to do so.
All trade experts educated in neo-liberal thinking believe that reduced tariffs are always a good thing and that free trade is always better than fair trade, but the reality shows that that is not the case.
We can live with or without reciprocity, but they can die because of it.
Together with the ACP countries, we 27 EU countries constitute a dominant group within the World Trade Organisation.
If we wish, we can together say that we need to extend the period of the negotiations or else devise alternatives to economic partnership agreements. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, when the WTO ruled that the customs advantages conferred by the countries of the EU on their former colonies amounted to putting other developing countries at a disadvantage, it was not calling for a new world order.
However, the January 2007 review of EPAs by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa was clear.
The reality is, of course, that even where technically they are well prepared, ACP countries still face serious political issues which remain between ACP member states, within governments in the ACP, between governments and private sector, civil society and regional integration organisations.
However, it remains the case - and I am not sure that anyone has mentioned this - that a dozen or more EU Member States are expressing concern and objections to the proposal, and some ACP states are concerned about the impact on sugar, bananas and rice.
Only yesterday, Barbados was saying that the region could benefit only if the EU ensured that they build the technical, productive and infrastructural capacity so that they can maximise the opportunities, particularly for sugar, between 2009 and 2015.
True, this is an advance that will make it possible to ensure that none of these countries loses out after 2007, but it is not a miracle solution that makes the EPAs development agreements.
For them to become development agreements, we need to go much further: we need to provide for a transitional period that is much longer than the 10 or 12 years that are currently being proposed; we need to put an end to agricultural dumping and respect the principle of food sovereignty; we need to offer genuinely special and individual treatment and enable the ACP countries to protect some of their sectors; we need to put a stop to the pressure on the Singapore issues, in order to uphold the right of all States freely to manage their public services; and, finally, we need to involve civil societies and parliaments more.
The Economic Partnership Agreements are about using trade as a lever for development.
The ACP countries have voluntarily agreed the route map that we are following in negotiating these agreements.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (DE) I should like to thank the rapporteur most warmly for highlighting the great need for action on the part of the European Union in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements.
