Consumer credit (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading of the report by Kurt Lechner, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the common position of the Council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer credit and repealing Directive 87/102/EEC (09948/2/2007 - C6-0315/2007 - 2002/0222 (COD)).
Let me just cite two key examples, namely the substantial improvements and slimmed-down provisions regarding overdraft facilities and the emerging arrangement on Article 16 in respect of compensation for early repayment.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the vote in this House on Wednesday on the Consumer Credit Directive is a very important moment for Europe's 500 million consumers.
In Europe the average consumer credit interest rate varies from around 6% in Finland, the cheapest Member State, to over 12% in Portugal.
In Italy, credit rates are about 9.4%, in Ireland about 6.8%.
Europe's consumer credit market is fragmented, broken down into 27 'mini markets'.
And, in a European credit market worth EUR 800 billion, direct cross-border financial services make up only a tiny fraction - 1% - of all distance credit transactions.
Concerning advertising for credit loans: if there is a figure in an advertisement on credit, it will be mandatory to provide the same standard list of essential information all over the European Union.
Concerning pre-contractual information: information given to consumers for credit offers will be presented in the same standard credit information form across the EU, and it will give all the key facts and figures - from interest rates to information on charges and linked insurances.
Its benefits include enabling consumers to compare offers of credit, obliging lenders to assess the credit-worthiness of the consumer - which will be important in the fight against debt across the EU - and obliging lenders to provide explanations and, as a result of our amendments, all creditors will now be responsible for providing comprehensive and standard information in a simplified format.
This is not just about opening the market, and the fact that we now have free movement of labour and people across 27 EU Member States gives this law new significance.
This directive can help.
It can help Europe's market in financial services at a difficult time, and it can empower and assist our consumers in obtaining credit and doing so competitively.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - I support the need to update EU legislation in this area.
The last time we had a directive on this was in 1987, and certainly the consumer credit market has changed dramatically since then.
This EU Directive on Consumer Credit Loans seeks to introduce a greater level of competition into the EUR 800 billion consumer credit market.
The main effect of this Directive will be to provide comparable and standard information to consumers across the EU who take out loans.
For credit offers, the information given to consumers, whether it is interest rates, numbers and frequency of payments, must be set out in a new EU-wide European credit information form.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, when rules are laid down as to how an agreement between two parties is to be drafted, account must of course be taken of whether the parties have equal status or whether one party has an advantage over the other from the outset.
I think that this place, which has not managed to audit its own books for nearly 11 years, commenting on this is slightly absurd.
Reference was made here to the fact that the European credit market is worth EUR 800 billion and that the differential between the highest and the lowest interest rates is about 6%.
I believe that the present plan is in the interests of both consumers and the financial sector.
I would like to take the opportunity presented by the presence of Commissioner Kuneva at this discussion, which is important to European consumers, to draw attention once again to the important role of consumer organisations, which must be able to play their rightful role in every Member State and receive adequate support from the Commission.
Commissioner, although you have achieved much encouraging progress for consumer groups and although your arrival gave the green light to consumer protection, I would ask for your help again in 2008. - (LT) I welcome the appearance of this directive; it is a step in the right direction.
I think that standard information really should be standard.
Every time that we in Parliament or Member States in the Council say that we should have different adaptive rules by the Member States we make this issue more complex.
Probably the compromise negotiations are headed in the right direction, but something should be done about the simplicity issue before this directive gets into the books and reaches consumers. (FR) Mr President, colleagues, Commissioner, I should like to make just a few observations.
We need to find a compromise over the few words that divide us, in order to avoid a conciliation procedure which, I believe, would be in no-one's interest.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has emerged clearly in the debate that we have a common aim.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 16 January 2008, at 12 noon.
The consumer will benefit not least from all contractual information, a common method for the calculation of the annual percentage rate and a 14 day withdrawal period.
The success or otherwise of this directive depends on its effective implementation by Member States.
Second, in my opinion in the longer term further harmonisation is needed once we have gathered experience on the working of this directive so as to make it easier for consumers to shop across borders and to give full legal certainty to businesses on their obligations when offering these credits in other Member States.
