Financial and economic situation in Moldova (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the economic and financial situation in Moldova.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) The elections that were re-run on 29 July in the Republic of Moldova were a crucial test of the country's ability to consolidate its democratic development and continue to progress towards rapprochement with the European Union.
Trade and industrial production have collapsed not only as a result of the crisis, but also due to the political unrest triggered by the parliamentary elections in April.
With regard to macrofinancial assistance, as is necessary for this type of assistance, our support will depend on concluding an agreement on a support programme between the Republic of Moldova and the International Monetary Fund.
We cannot go ahead with preparing a macrofinancial assistance programme before launching the programme with the IMF.
The Commission's services have been used on this occasion to gather the information required to prepare a macrofinancial assistance programme.
The European Union has an increasingly important influence in this process.
The Republic of Moldova is going through a serious economic, financial and institutional crisis caused by the global economic and financial climate, and especially by eight years of Communist government.
The early elections held in July 2009 and the victory of the Alliance for European Integration mark an important step towards fulfilling the European aspirations of Moldova's citizens.
This specifically means negotiating as soon as possible an association agreement between the European Union and Moldova, initiating very quickly a constructive dialogue aimed at introducing a visa waiver for Moldovan citizens and providing the Republic of Moldova with financial support so that it can cover the budget deficit.
I believe that we need to give Moldova very clear signals from the European institutions and the European Union as a whole, and provide the necessary support, both financial and economic.
However, I must stress that political support is also required for the current government and its attempts to extricate Moldova from the difficult situation the country is in.
In addition to this, we must bear in mind that at the moment, the political situation in Moldova, even if it seems more stable and positive, can very quickly shift in a different direction.
This is why we support the Commission's efforts.
We also support the idea of quickly signing an Association Agreement which, as mentioned by Mr Marinescu, should also include a visa waiver, a serious problem that has been causing tension between Moldova and Romania, and this should include the creation of a free trade area too.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (RO) The Republic of Moldova is in an extremely difficult economic situation.
The financial crisis in the European Union has also affected the countries adjoining us, and it is our duty to help them.
The economic crisis in Moldova is not only a consequence of the global crisis, but is primarily due to a lack of immediate action that was required when this crisis broke out in the Republic of Moldova.
In addition, the decision was also made to keep an artificial exchange rate between the leu and euro, at a level which had to ensure that the population in this country next to us was not affected by the crisis.
We are also asking for a proposal to be included in the future association agreement on creating an expanded, comprehensive, common free trade area, along with a proposal on a visa waiver for Moldovan citizens.
Around one million Moldovans work and live abroad in the west, especially in Italy, Portugal and Austria.
The new parliament must now choose its president wisely.
Very little progress has been made towards a resolution of the frozen conflict in Transnistria - a problem which goes back some 17 years.
This is largely because Russia bankrolls the illegal regime in Tiraspol and continues to garrison troops in Transnistria.
We can usually judge Russia's sincerity by its degree of commitment to resolving conflicts like this one, but the fact is that in Transnistria, as well as in Georgia and Ukraine, Russia cannot resist interfering.
I would like to talk about both of these problems and also about the following report on Georgia.
I feel obliged to state that Czech President Václav Klaus was not mistaken in his statements either on the situation in Moldova or on the border conflict between Georgia and Russia.
Thirdly, both countries have expressed interest in closer cooperation with the European Union and this must involve appropriate financial support as well as real political support, for example, by relaxing the visa regime.
Mr President, the financial and economic situation in Moldova can be summed up in a few words.
A new government team may have taken office in Chişinău on 25 September with a promising name and programme - the Alliance for European Integration - but the Communist Party remains strong and is already preparing its return to power by forcing new elections, as expected.
After all, Moldova's political future is on the European agenda here today. (RO) I, too, wish to welcome the Commission's intention to support the Republic of Moldova.
This political support is vital, all the more so as there is a risk, and I strongly emphasise this point, that Moldova will be regarded as a local problem, at the very limit, a problem for the Romanians inside the European Union.
On a final note, Moldova's citizens require visas.
This is precisely why the institutions of the European Union must identify solutions for providing immediate macrofinancial assistance to the Republic of Moldova.
There has been a need for a very long time to initiate negotiations for a new agreement with Moldova.
However, the parliament in Chişinău is in a difficult position.
The European Union must hold out a clear European perspective to this country and give firm support to the present authorities to prevent the old political nightmare from returning.
The developments in Moldova are important for its people but are also very important for the entire region.
During the transition process, the reforms are very fragile in many post-Soviet countries and the successes in Moldova will be an important example and an important signal to other pro-reformist groups in the post-Soviet region.
Talking about the fragility of the government right now and the situation in Moldova, we have to remember experiences at the beginning of the 1990s in this country, when the difficult economic situation led to a failure to pay pensions and salaries and to a break in reforms.
Financial assistance must support the population and must support the reforms which the country has to implement, as encouraged by the Union.
Finally, the new agreement with the Republic of Moldova should be an association agreement as in the case of the other countries under the European neighbourhood policy.
Visa liberalisation should be negotiated and helped to happen. (RO) The economic crisis is also being strongly felt in the Republic of Moldova.
The people of Moldova must be able to leave their country and travel, which is why I am in favour of a proper visa policy.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) I have made one extremely important observation: the political support is there in Parliament for strengthening ties with the Republic of Moldova and bringing this country closer to the European Union.
As part of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the assistance budget, which rose to EUR 40 million in 2007, increased this year to EUR 62 million, and is forecast to continue growing.
I wish to tell you that last week, the European Commission sent a delegation to Chişinău for technical consultations with the authorities on negotiating a new agreement.
The last matter I would like to mention is about the issue of the visa waiver.
According to the joint declaration made on 7 May 2009, which marked the launch of the Eastern Partnership, the European Union is going to adopt measures that gradually move towards a visa waiver, with the long-term objective of achieving this for every country which is a member of this partnership.
The government in Chişinău is going through difficult times caused not only by the global economic recession, but also by economic decisions which were wrong or put off for too long by the previous government.
We are living in an interconnected, global Europe where no government can work miracles on its own, especially when they are expected overnight by a people forgotten for far too long by their own leaders.
In this context, it is very important to use the opportunities afforded by cooperation in the framework of the Eastern Partnership, which would involve signing an association agreement and liberalising visa policy.
The announcement made by the Swedish Presidency about initiating as soon as possible negotiations on a new agreement with the Republic of Moldova, intended to replace the current Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, is more than welcome in view of the new political situation in this state.
The Republic of Moldova's European destiny has been reinforced by the pro-European majority government formed in the parliament in Chişinău.
The preferential commercial terms granted by the European Union in early 2006 and Moldova's participation in CEFTA in 2007, along with all the Western Balkan states, some of which are EU candidate states, link the economy of this country to the European single market.
