Second EU/Africa Summit (Lisbon, 8 and 9 December 2007) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the second EU-Africa Summit which was held in Lisbon on 8 and 9 December 2007.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner Michel, ladies and gentlemen, the second EU-Africa Summit that was held last weekend in Lisbon was undoubtedly a success and marked the start of a new relationship between the European Union and Africa based on strategic dialogue.
I must also highlight at this point the constructive role played by the European Parliament in the process of producing the documents and preparing for the Lisbon Summit.
For the initial period from 2008 to 2010, the first action plan provides for eight partnerships in areas of common concern which primarily aim to have a positive impact on the day-to-day lives of African and European citizens.
We also explained that the real challenge in the short term is to draw up interim agreements, not EPAs, before 1 January to ensure compatibility with WTO rules and thus prevent non-least-developed countries (non-LDCs) from being left in a more unfavourable situation as of 1 January 2008.
I was told about the example of the Côte d'Ivoire which would have lost around 750 million euros in commodities trade if it had not drawn up the interim agreement.
The joint strategy and the first action plan form the roadmap for our partnership and divide it into very specific, operational, thematic objectives, as the President said.
This success is the result of a very long period of preparatory work which began in December 2005 with a communication by the Commission on a strategy for Africa, which in 2007 became the EU-Africa joint strategy.
As the Portuguese Prime Minister José Socrates said, I have the feeling there will be a before-Lisbon and an after-Lisbon in relations between the EU and Africa.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the summit is behind us, a historic moment, a turning point in our relationship with Africa.
After all, both Europe and Africa have a responsibility when it comes to the development of Africa.
The action plan talks about seminars, studies and evaluations.
As we were reminded this morning, it is certainly time for us to be concerned, but it is also time for us to concern ourselves much more, and more effectively too. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to come back to the interparliamentary encounter between the Pan-African and European Parliaments to comment on two points where a common vision is needed within a common strategy.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I wish first of all to say that we in the European Parliament delegation attended two summits: first the parliamentary pre-summit with our colleagues from the Pan-African Parliament, and also the official summit.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can be satisfied with what happened in Lisbon.
Building a political, economic and social partnership forms part of our strategy.
Mr Konaré stated that Africa wishes to draw up its own agenda: this is quite extraordinary, and I hope it really does mean that Africa assumes responsibility for jointly tackling poverty, desertification and disease.
The Pan-African Parliament and the European Parliament have now entered the field with determination, with a joint statement, and this is something exceptional.
People may well make fine statements about a new strategic partnership, but the fact is - as I said in Lisbon - that a satisfactory partnership between Europe and Africa has to be based on shared values and principles, such as democracy, human rights and good governance.
What is difficult is to accept joint responsibility when starting from the fixed idea of economic partnership agreements. (DE) Mr President, it is good that the EU-Africa Summit has taken place.
Alpha Konaré told the forum that Africa does not need either charity or paternalism.
Europe, however, has often treated this commitment rather lightly or à la carte by imposing its own agenda whenever its interests were at stake: on terrorism, migration and, at the present time, economic partnership agreements.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, I am going to be frank as some Members have been, some more than others.
The EU-Africa Summit was a success.
We must assess the results achieved and, only then, when this assessment has been made in the medium and long term, will we be able to properly say whether the summit was successful in terms of its consequences and effects.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to quickly reply to the main points made, and then I intend to briefly discuss the economic partnership agreements (EPAs).
I feel, however, that in relation to this issue the remarks are extremely unjustified.
All this is legitimate.
However, Mr Hutchinson, when you tell me 'all the African leaders said ...', that is not true.
I am nevertheless a little hurt to hear we have been blackmailing our partners.
We cannot just force our partners to sign agreements.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The summit between European and African countries took place on the 8 and 9 December in Lisbon, Portugal.
More than 70 heads of state and government attended.
The majority of irregular immigrants that reach Malta come from sub-Saharan Africa and are economic immigrants.
The situation, however, could deteriorate when the general preferential trade agreements expire on the 31 December 2007.
