Accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products - Common framework for the marketing of products - Application of certain national technical rules to products lawfully marketed in another Member State - Safety marking on consumer products (debate) (FR) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: report by André Brie, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products - C6-0068/2007 -, report by Christel Schaldemose, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and the Council on a common framework for the marketing of products - C6-0067/2007 - and the report by Alexander Stubb, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council laying down procedures relating to the application of certain national technical rules to products lawfully marketed in another Member State and repealing Decision 3052/95/CE - C6-0065/2007 -, as well as the following oral question: oral question to the Commission by Arlene McCarthy, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, concerning safety marking on consumer products - B6-0009/2008).
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, representatives of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the subject matter and legal intricacies of the Regulation on accreditation and market surveillance are complex, and it has all the appearances of a very dry and largely technical instrument.
The European Parliament not only shared this position but also developed many aspects of it, substantially fleshing out and tightening the obligations on Member States and market-surveillance authorities, including the requirements relating to cooperation with customs authorities.
I am pleased that the Council and the Commission have responded to this concern of Parliament.
For this reason I would also like to thank Commissioners Kuneva and Verheugen, the Commission staff and our negotiating partners from the German and Portuguese Presidencies and particularly from the Slovenian Presidency for their intensive, constructive and considerate cooperation.
May I also take this opportunity to record my gratitude to the late Michel Ayral, who was involved in organising most of this cooperation, which makes his recent death an even greater loss for us all.
Let me also express my special thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, Christel Schaldemose und Alexander Stubb, for their exemplary cooperation in the preparation of this package.
Rapporteur. - (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you all for the fantastic collaboration we have had in connection with the work on this package.
It has also been very challenging to work on three reports and therefore also with other rapporteurs.
Everyone who comes into contact with a product will be responsible for ensuring that that product is safe and meets EU requirements.
In future Member States will prosecute companies and producers that misuse the CE marking.
The CE marking is not necessarily the solution to all our safety problems within the internal market.
The Commission is in the process of carrying out this work and we are very eagerly awaiting the results.
The first point is a vote of thanks because, where a legislative package such as this one is concerned, there is no way one can push it through alone.
This was a first legislative package for me as well, and has shown that things can work quite well.
Then I would like to thank the three Presidencies that have been involved.
Since then we have had 300 court cases to show that mutual recognition does not work.
The harmonised proportion amounts to EUR 1 500 billion, or in other words EUR 1.5 trillion, and the non-harmonised proportion to EUR 500 billion.
Of that EUR 500 billion, there are problems relating to EUR 150 billion.
To put it in simple terms, until now it took a small, medium-sized or large company two to three years to fight a case on mutual recognition in court.
That is not really necessary any more, because we have shifted the burden of proof to the Member States.
Basically, in a procedure lasting 20 to 60 days, the Member State has to provide - and I stress the word - evidence that a particular rule does not apply in another Member State.
What I want to say to all small and medium-sized businesses in Europe is that there is no need ever again to fill in a form to apply to enter the market of another country.
So my final point, having said my thanks and given a background to procedural changes and practical cases, is that European firms should never again have to let a product be prevented from entering another country's market. (Applause) As entertaining as ever, Mr Stubb!
I think it is the first report they have done in this Parliament and, I have to say, they have done a very good job, together with staff.
I think we have managed to achieve an agreement which will free up circulation of safe products on the internal market, while introducing a tougher regime to detect dangerous goods and prevent them from coming onto the market and obviously maintaining tough rules, which we already have in place for food safety, medical equipment and blood products.
But we have said very clearly that free movement of goods must not compromise safety.
While I would stress that US toy safety legislation on testing requirements and standards is weaker than the European Union's, and their problems with defective toys were greater, nonetheless the recalls for the same product occurred in July in the US and it took Member States until September to take action to withdraw defective toy products from the market in the EU.
That is why the changes that have been made by our rapporteurs for swifter action are, indeed, essential.
I think that the message this Parliament will give today by voting through these new measures is that we want goods to move freely, we want to increase competition and consumer choice, but we will not compromise on safety and, therefore, we have stepped up enforcement surveillance and given the CE mark the legal protection it deserves, to ensure that importers and manufacturers can be legally prosecuted if they fail in their duty of responsibility to protect the consumer.
It is only one of many directives covered by this package of laws that we are putting through today and, as chair of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I therefore want to ask you to address some of the key future issues to enhance consumer confidence and to ensure consumer safety and awareness.
It means it conforms to the Directive on electrical equipment, and that is why, today, we are putting to you three requests: to examine the concept of a supplementary marking to enhance consumer information on product safety, to carry out an in-depth study in order to clarify the feasibility, the possible benefits and the potential drawbacks for such a marking for all stakeholders, including business and consumers, and to examine the possibilities for reinforcing the credibility of the CE marking through measures for stronger customs control inside and outside the European Union, to make sure we end the consumer confusion as regards the CE marking.
President-in-Office of the Council - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be with you today at the plenary of the European Parliament and to debate the products package.
I should mention that already this year, during the Slovenian Presidency, there have been about 30 or 35 meetings at all levels, and it is only mid-February.
At the end of November there were about 300 amendments to the text, for which we are grateful to everyone, especially those who devoted a considerable effort to achieving these results.
I agree that at first sight the products package seems very technical, but I am convinced that European companies are going to respond very clearly that this legislation is going to affect their business methods in the most direct manner.
This is especially important for small and medium-sized enterprises which are disproportionately burdened by administrative procedures compared with other companies.
They will find that the new legislation makes these procedures much simpler and that the products package will benefit European companies.
The accreditation regulation on market surveillance has enabled us to strengthen market surveillance.
In the same way we will ensure that the surveillance of products entering the European Union from third countries is good and that, in future, we will avoid the presence on the European market of products that are harmful to the health of its citizens and, even worse, its children.
The procedures of the Member States for handling unsafe products are now much clearer.
In my opinion, this will enable us in the most direct way to increase the confidence of our citizens in the internal market of the European Union.
Let me mention that the products package is also part of the effort to create a better legislative environment.
This will make European Union legislation more comprehensible and it will be easier for the Member States to implement it.
I would also like to thank the Commission and Commissioner Verheugen for their tireless support and advice in the shaping of the final agreement between the European Parliament and the Council.
I think that together we have proven that, where the well-being of European citizens and the European economy is concerned, European institutions are united and efficient.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the great aim of this initiative, which we presented almost exactly a year ago, was to optimise the free movement of goods within the European internal market while increasing consumer and business confidence in the rules governing the internal market.
The fact that this complex and sometimes very technical-looking package has been brought to a successful conclusion in such a short time is truly remarkable.
I also thank the Slovenian Presidency for making this project one of the priorities of its agenda.
The fact that we are able to adopt this package today is a fine feather in the cap of the Slovenian Presidency.
I would also be the first to admit that the quality of this comprehensive legislative package has been enhanced by its passage through Parliament, and I am pleased that this is the case.
We are therefore able to present a package that will benefit all participants in the internal market - businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and, above all, consumers.
The Regulation on mutual accreditation will make it easier in future for companies to market their products throughout Europe without stumbling over obstacles in the form of diverse national rules.
Indeed, there are only 44 000 firms in the whole of Europe that do not fall into the category of small and medium-sized enterprises.
What is rather surprising is the fact that only 8% of our businesses export beyond their national borders, whether within the European internal market or further afield.
The Regulation on accreditation and market surveillance will perceptibly increase the effectiveness of our rules for the internal market, and one of the main purpose of those rules, of course, is to guarantee the safety of products.
Let me say first of all that I am pleased to see Parliament reinforcing the CE mark with a view to ensuring that it can play its role more effectively in guaranteeing the safety of products.
Nevertheless, I definitely agree with Mrs McCarthy that this CE mark raises a number of issues which have emerged over the many years since it first came into use.
I am in the fortunate position of being able to tell you not only that the Commission is prepared to present the study requested by Parliament but also that we have already begun our preliminary work on it, because I see this project as a matter of urgency, and that we shall present the study as soon as possible.
The CE mark, of course, means nothing to consumers unless they are familiar with the provisions that apply to the product in question.
It is true that the CE mark is, in most cases, a safety mark too, but not always and not exclusively.
The first specific fruit of this decision has already been presented to Parliament in the form of the Toy Safety Directive which the Commission has already adopted.
Underlying our amendments was the desire to ensure that importers, together with foreign producers, bore responsibility for all loss or injury resulting from products that were dangerous or infringed the rules.
This will not only contribute to fair competition in the European Union but will also reduce the incentive to relocate production facilities in non-EU countries where the laws and regulations are less strict than they are here.
Let me say quite clearly that compliance with European rules must not make any company less competitive, nor should any company stand to gain by flouting them.
The compromise date of 1 January 2010 is not what we wanted, but at least it is an improvement on the Commission's proposal, as is the case in many other areas.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost I would like to express my appreciation for the excellent work of all the rapporteurs on this package.
As the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the report presented by Mr Stubb, in my contribution I will deal with a group of roughly 25% of products, which are subject to the so-called principle of mutual recognition of technical rules among the Member States.
The goods market in question is worth approximately EUR 500 billion.
Despite the fact that the European Court of Justice established the mutual recognition principle in the Cassis de Dijon ruling nearly 30 years ago, the reality does not always reflect this: hence the importance of this legislation and the need for it.
I am confident that the main objective of this proposal will be fulfilled and that the European consumer will become the main beneficiary of the effective enforcement and application of this principle.
The committee's opinion was toned down in this respect, and I am glad to see that, thanks also to efforts in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, most of the excessively protectionist aspects have been mitigated.
In all, I believe the tenor of this report is now acceptable.
This is a major achievement for the European Union, with almost unimaginable economic benefits for our constituents.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (FR) Madam President, colleagues, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I should like firstly to applaud the quality of the work done by our colleague Alexander Stubb, with whom - I would add - we enjoyed close cooperation.
Considering the three texts as a package, I would say that - thanks to the three rapporteurs and to very thorough discussions in all our committees - they successfully reconcile opening the internal market, in other words removing barriers, with the concern for safety which has become so evident especially since last summer.
We all agree - and the Commissioner also touched on this point - that product safety is a matter of credibility.
The third point was a clear definition and demystification of the CE mark, which is not a quality label but only a mark indicating that products comply with all the relevant provisions of Community law.
However, I want to thank the President-in-Office, in particular, for being here today.
Products under those brand names are actually designed in England but made in China, and anybody who doubts that China can produce good-quality products should visit their local model train shop at the weekend and, maybe, like me, buy a present for their grandson.
The three reports on the table and the oral question that Arlene McCarthy asked on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection are a piece of work that reflects well on the European Parliament.
I would also like to say a special word of thanks to Mia De Vits and Barbara Weiler from my Group, because they have not been mentioned yet, and of course to our own rapporteur, Christel Schaldemose.
I believe that through this package we are making a valuable and essential contribution to the completion of the legislation governing the internal market.
That is a very important point in this context.
It is also important that we are holding this vote today, and I reiterate my sincere thanks to the Minister, Mr Vizjak.
The Commission has done what it undertook to do, but we - the Members of the European Parliament - and the Member States have, I think, lacked the political will to take a clear-cut position on the issue.
The ALDE Group will support this compromise in its current form and we welcome the work that has been done on the text.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the discussion about safety marks has been going on for years.
Since states are duty bound to protect their citizens against life- or health-threatening products, some of them introduced regulations subjecting certain categories of goods to various requirements such as markings and certificates, and the relevant national authorities were made responsible for monitoring and supervision.
The problem is the unlawful introduction of changes to products already marked by manufacturers, the unlawful affixing of the CE mark and the addition - without a proper certification procedure - of similar products to certificates already obtained.
What the EU needs, therefore, is better synchronisation of the measures taken by all consumer protection institutions.
And of course I want to thank all three rapporteurs.
I think that is a significant comment, for we have all worked hard on this legislation.
This package has three elements.
Another important thing, in our view, was the need to say - as, of course, we did - that mutual recognition could only work if the conditions governing market access were the same in all Member States.
This framework decision gives us a toolbox for future directives, which will ensure greater legal consistency on key issues, establishing a clear and coherent position on the CE mark in particular but also on the status of importers in the trade chain.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, unlike many other economic disciplines, marketing is a true science and as such it has its own definite laws and rules, which remain the same regardless of those involved in them.
I therefore welcome the effort to establish in individual states one or more Product Contact Points.
The regulation sets a 20-day deadline for economic operators to reply to decisions of the competent national authorities, based on the so-called public interest, which requires a product to be withdrawn from the market or to be banned or in some cases for changes to be made before the product is allowed onto the market.
A positive aspect of the proposal is the emphasis on the possibility of a review of decisions by the national judicial authorities.
That said, the texts before us are an exercise in stating the obvious: they reassert the concept of mutual recognition; they bow to the mania for labelling - which is termed marking - with the CE logo, its approved dimensions and sanctions for its improper use; and low and behold, 15 years after the dismantling of borders and customs controls, our rapporteur André Brie demands more resources for customs officers.
I am also most grateful to Mrs McCarthy and Mrs Fourtou for informing us that the CE mark and its significance did not just begin to exercise this Parliament when the framework legislation on the new approach was adopted but that, whenever a directive relating to the CE mark has been discussed in recent years, we have repeatedly asked whether the CE mark - which, as we know, was originally intended purely as a marking for market-surveillance bodies - really tells consumers what they want to know when they buy a product.
We hope that this study will come up with sound evidence which might indicate that the CE mark in its present form does not give consumers all the information they need. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago, on 14 February, the European Commission proposed this new package of measures for goods with the aim of injecting fresh impetus into trade in the internal market.
What struck me during the course of this debate was the huge number of obstacles that still exist in the internal market, given that it was back in 1992 when Jacques Delors introduced the single market.
According to the Commission, this package contains measures that will impact on 22 industries with an aggregate annual output in the region of EUR 1 500 billion.
As other speakers have said, not only producers but also importers will be held responsible in future.
As a Social Democrat I am also proud that one particular principle is enshrined not only in our resolution but also in the Regulation itself.
For Member States too this will create a sounder basis because it will save us a great deal in administrative costs, 150 billion a year.
The budget for this year is 120 billion.
A more dynamic economy means a more prosperous Europe, and that is good for businesses and for consumers, so good for the European Union too.
I shall not use all my allotted time because many other speakers have already praised the substance of this package.
We often differ not only in our past experience but also in our present laws and obligations, which are carried over to European institutions, workplaces and citizens.
The CE system must be reinforced both on our borders, as some Members have said, but also in our internal markets, and especially in the commercial networks.
All this is good, but in my contribution to this debate I am going to divert a little to an aspect that is overlooked by these reports but which I feel is highly relevant to the discussion on products.
When I bought my first microwave I deliberately bought a good one that would last.
We have to be careful with our harmonisation that we leave responsible countries the option to ban products that have built-in planned obsolescence, and that we encourage countries only to allow in products that will last and are repairable, because it is those countries which are stuck with mountains of waste at the end of the cycle. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, I have been enjoying today's very good atmosphere during the debate on the internal market and I would like to thank all those who have contributed to it.
I have a son Andrej, which is why I know that the name Andrej means someone who is strong and powerful.
The basic precondition for a properly functioning European internal goods market is the removal of obstacles to economic operators and the creation of favourable conditions for companies, in particular for the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises.
The basic principles of the legislative package on the marketing of products are the manufacturers' responsibility for ensuring that their products comply with the existing European laws on the one hand, and the responsibility of Member States, which must ensure surveillance of the European Union market, on the other hand.
I do realise the great importance of this significant European Union policy and I welcome Commissioner Verheugen's involvement.
As rapporteur for PPE-DE Group, I also focused on amendments to the report by Mrs Christel Schaldemose on increasing importers' responsibilities, decreasing the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises and retaining the new approach as a basic framework for the marketing of products.
The compromise that was agreed includes the transfer of some of the articles relating to the CE marking into the regulation.
The single market today is not working as Jacques Delors had envisaged it a quarter of a century ago.
The European Commission calculates that it costs companies 2 to 10% more to sell their goods in another Member State, because the principle of mutual recognition is incorrectly applied.
Indeed, as you too have worked out, Mr Stubb, this means an extra cost to the Union as a whole of EUR 150 billion a year.
Our Committee on the Internal Market went on a tour of the port of Antwerp, where we saw the customs services demanding more funding - a matter for Member States - but also calling for more cross-border cooperation, which is something we need to work on for the future.
Secondly, we have greater clarity surrounding the CE mark but I agree with Mrs McCarthy and Mrs Gebhardt that we need to work on a real safety label in the future.
Given that I have only two minutes and that I am speaking as a member of the Environment Committee, you will forgive me for focusing on key points, and particularly on the question of the CE marking system.
Seven months after the Mattel incident and the withdrawal from the market - as we have already heard - of more than 20 million Chinese-made toys that were CE marked, the Union has been under more pressure than ever to improve the marking system.
It is no coincidence that the European Parliament has already spoken out on more than one occasion - most recently in the resolution on toy safety of September 2007 - in favour of tougher market surveillance.
I am thinking here of the local product contact system announced in the report, as well as Alexander Stubb's announcement this morning of his own personal info point.
In conclusion, Madam President, I would point out that the rules we are laying down here will be worthwhile only if they are observed, as they obviously should be, by European manufacturers and distributors and also - crucially, as Mia De Vits has just noted - by economic operators from third countries, especially importers. (PL) Madam President, in the last few years there have been more and more cases in which goods that do not meet EU standards have been introduced into the EU market.
The drafts and reports submitted to us are an excellent basis for a comprehensive homogeneous document. (PL) Madam President, I congratulate all three rapporteurs on their excellent, constructive reports.
It happens more and more frequently that manufacturers affix the CE mark to their products without any control, despite the fact that the goods in question do not meet EU criteria.
I am pleased that Members have taken a position in support of the CE mark as a major guarantee of compliance with EU standards and - most important of all - that they are in favour of strengthening its position.
I am very pleased to see that the Council, the Commission and Parliament have stuck to this position by deleting the relevant clauses and maintaining the status quo.
I also want to thank the rapporteurs very warmly for their very good work.
The legislative package on the marketing of products on the internal market is such a case, since what we produce in, and import into, the EU circulates freely on the internal market.
For example, Mrs Schaldemose wants the importers to bear responsibility for ensuring that the products they import comply with EU rules.
We must also amend and strengthen the CE marking system.
Although it is precisely that question which has been most sensitive, I think that the rapporteurs have made good progress.
As Mrs Schaldemose said, the CE marking system is not the solution to all our safety problems on the internal market.
It is our responsibility to ensure that the marking system is strengthened and that market surveillance really works in all the Member States.
Finally, I would stress once again that our consumers must take pride of place, for without secure and confident consumers we shall not have a flourishing market. (RO) Allow me to make a few observations regarding the CE marking.
Dear Commissioner Verheugen, last year you said that we would never have 100% product safety.
This is why I request the European Commission to take into consideration, besides more careful market supervision and more severe customs controls, harsher penalties for the companies manufacturing or importing products that do not comply with the EU norms and directives.
The internal market involves, besides the free movement of products, taking efficient actions for consumer protection. (CS) Commissioner, the dynamic development of the EU internal market and the even more dynamic import of harmful goods, especially from China, force us to modernise the rules on the marketing of products, including those that have not been harmonised.
I want to express my appreciation for the excellent work of the Commission on the preparation of this 'goods package', and in particular for the thorough work of all the rapporteurs, whom I wish to commend for the excellent result. (ES) Madam President, some thirty years ago the Court of Justice established the principle of mutual recognition in its judgment in Cassis de Dijon.
The current package is a substitute for a greater need which has been demonstrated in this debate, namely the need for genuine harmonisation of production within the European Union.
In short, this is a poor substitute for genuine regulation at European Union level to replace the 27 national sets of rules.
The European Parliament will probably approve this package and I believe it to be a good one, but we cannot rest on our laurels because without genuine Community regulation, without genuine certification of quality which puts the minds of citizens throughout the European Union at rest, we will not make great progress in constructing the market for European products. (Applause) (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are able to adopt the goods package at first reading speaks volumes for the excellent cooperation that has taken place within the European Parliament as well as between Parliament and the Council.
Through this package we are removing obstacles to trade that have resulted from differing technical rules in the Member States.
The new legislation will ensure that products which do not comply with EU law or which are unsafe are quickly removed from the market or do not reach the market in the first place.
Cooperation with countries outside the EU - one need only think of China - will be improved under the Regulation by measures such as joint programmes and exchanges of technical expertise.
In particular, false or misleading CE marks are prohibited, and those who use them will face criminal prosecution in the Member States.
On Thursday we shall adopt a set of rules that promotes trade in goods in the internal market to best effect while at the same time - and this is so important - protecting consumers by means of better surveillance. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European consumers expect the products they buy to enjoy better safety protection.
What we need - and what Mrs Schaldemose's report proposes - is tighter market surveillance to prevent abuses of the marking system and to clarify the responsibilities of importers and manufacturers, because ultimately they alone bear the responsibility for putting on the market products that are safe, and we are well aware that cooperation between national market surveillance authorities and customs services is very uneven.
Currently it is very hard to take sanctions against them because in some cases, by the time that problems come to light in Europe, manufacturers have closed their factories and disappeared.
The challenge is to strike the right balance between procedures that could be burdensome and over-costly for micro-enterprises, including the craft sector, without absolving them from their responsibilities. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, I should like to express my thanks for this report and remind the House that the CE mark of the European Union means that a product complies with European standards of quality and reliability.
It must also be possible, however, to continue marking products visibly with the Member States' recognised symbols, because we are aware that these inspire great confidence among hosts of consumers.
In conclusion, let me say that great importance also attaches to additional markings for regional specialities and for organic food products, since we know that these too are widely recognised and trusted both within and beyond the European market, and such goodwill must be nurtured. (PL) Madam President, I welcome the package submitted to us today as a step forward, both for consumers and for European entrepreneurs.
I would like to say a few words about the principle of mutual recognition.
I don't know whether you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that it is already 30 years since the European Court of Justice handed down its judgment on that principle.
Regrettably, the situation regarding Member States' implementation of the principle of mutual recognition, which is so fundamental to operation of the common market, is far from satisfactory.
I do not know whether you realise that the costs borne by firms in the European Union as a result of non-compliance with the principle of mutual recognition are enormous, and the Union itself incurs losses of some 150 billion euros.
So if we are still intent on making the European economy strong and competitive in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and, in the not-too-distant future, vis-à-vis India, China, Brazil and other powers, we must accept this principle as common to us all and give it proper recognition.
Following the extensive work carried out by our German and Portuguese colleagues on behalf of the Council before Slovenia took over the Presidency, the task of final harmonisation between the European Union institutions was left to the Slovenian Presidency.
That is why we are particularly pleased to have been involved in completing this great task which is so important for all the Member States of the European Union.
Secondly, we will secure uniform treatment and mutual assistance between national authorities for the surveillance of marketed products, effective safety checks on products manufactured by European companies and those entering the EU from third countries, and, of course, more coherent future technical legislation.
The final result will be a friendlier environment for economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by adding a few comments on the direct economic implications.
In fact, we could not do that until last year, because it required an amendment to the relevant European legislation.
The idea that we can offer consumers the prospect of 100% product safety is an illusion.
For this reason, we must insist - it is our only option - that all those who bear responsibility in the chain are held fully accountable.
In other words, European importers assume liability for the safety of products from outside the EU, and anyone who suffers loss or injury caused by a dangerous or faulty product has no need to track down some manufacturer or other in some country far beyond the bounds of the European Union but can press his or her claim against the European importer.
Let me take this opportunity to thank you once again for the positive and constructive spirit in which this debate has been conducted.
If Malcolm Harbour is still here, let me tell him that, as far as I am concerned, every day could be his birthday if all his birthdays are crowned with such signal successes. (Applause) rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, there has been so much consensus that I can only express my thanks for the discussion, and there is nothing I wish to repeat.
Allow me, therefore, to express my special thanks to Peter Traung and Luca Visaggio.
However, I have a couple of comments to make in response to some of the points that have been raised during today's proceedings.
It is absolutely true that it is confusing for consumers and we need this study on a possible consumer safety marking.
The CE marking and the CE scheme will be significantly improved compared with what we have today.
I feel that today's debate has simply illustrated that many people have been involved, because it has concerned three reports with many shadow rapporteurs etc.
A very large number of MEPs have been involved in the work and have therefore also had the opportunity to express themselves.
Perhaps he should not thank his speech-writer - because, of course, he was reading directly from a piece of paper - because obviously the speech-writer did not understand what this package was all about.
I would also argue that this is probably the biggest package relating to the free movement of goods since the 1992 Delors package, if you remember.
Therefore, in that sense, this was remarkably fast and, once again, I want to thank all the people who were involved in this, because it shows that the machinery works.
My third point relates to when Ms Ries said that companies hereafter will contact alexstubb.com to send their complaints if mutual recognition does not apply!
