European Ombudsman's activities in 2006 (debate) The next item is the report by Luciana Sbarbati, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2006.
Ombudsman. - Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for this opportunity to address Parliament on my Annual Report for 2006.
I also wish to thank the rapporteur, Ms Sbarbati, and the Committee on Petitions, for their excellent report.
During 2006, 250 decisions closing inquiries were made.
In 95 cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration.
During 2006, 64 cases were settled by the institution concerned to the satisfaction of the complainant.
Three friendly solutions were achieved in 2006 and a further 27 proposals for such a solution were under consideration by the institution concerned at the end of the year.
In 2006, I closed 41 inquiries in this way.
To better monitor the impact of my criticism and advice, I have this year launched a study of the follow-up to all critical remarks made in 2006, as well as to the 38 cases involving a further remark made during the same year.
I would now like to mention some other activities that I have undertaken during 2006 with a view to ensuring the best possible service to citizens.
A fundamental aspect of our institution is that the Ombudsman is an individual who communicates personally with citizens, who reviews their cases, and who seeks to resolve their problems and complaints.
That should be cause for concern for anyone who wants better relations between the EU and its citizens.
Complaints offer an opportunity to put things right and to demonstrate that the institution concerned is serious about respecting the citizens' fundamental right to good administration.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first to thank the Ombudsman for his excellent work as is borne out by this particular report.
The fact that institutions have a code of good administrative conduct is often not enough to guarantee the creation of a genuine culture of service.
The Committee on Petitions has also issued a special invitation to the Ombudsman to investigate the systems used by EPSO, again with a view to protecting the rights of candidates, especially young candidates, in the European Parliament's competition procedures, and to investigate alleged discrimination reported at the European School in Brussels.
The Committee on Petitions is in favour of speeding up procedures to ensure that the Ombudsman's annual report is considered more quickly, and it is also in favour of amending the Statute, provided that the amendments simply involve a qualitative expansion of the Ombudsman's powers, without affecting the nature of his competences or the non-binding effect of all his decisions.
I therefore very much welcome the Ombudsman's Annual Report for 2006, and I want to stress that the relations between the Commission and the Ombudsman are very positive.
For example, the number of open enquiries addressed to the Commission decreased by 20% in 2006 in relation to 2005 and 2004, and we more frequently acknowledge our mistakes and apologise.
Thirdly, Parliament has requested the Commission make proper use of its discretionary powers under Article 226 relating to infringement procedures.
The Ombudsman has a very important stake in this, and so does the European Parliament and the Committee on Petitions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank and congratulate Mrs Sbarbati, the rapporteur on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2006.
I welcome the solemn proclamation of the Charter of the Presidents of the Institutions that will be made on 12 December.
The European Ombudsman is one vital part of the democratic structure and functioning of the Union.
I am delighted with the work of the Ombudsman, as explained in his annual report and in his speech.
It is important that we support the work of the Ombudsman, as well as the work of the Committee on Petitions, as it is through handling complaints and petitions on EU matters from citizens that we can find out what is not working well at European level and take corrective measures.
Commissioner Margot Wallström stressed the need for transparency.
Under Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, every person has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions and bodies of the Union.
Consequently, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring there are adequate resources of the relevant kind in place, so that people do not have to wait years and years for decisions on matters that affect them, because waiting for decisions is a tiresome business.
Hominum causa omne ius constitutum sit - every law should be applied from the point of view of human beings.
The scope and quantity of applications submitted to the Committee on Petitions would indicate something similar.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Madam President, I am not going to repeat all of the good things that have been said, apart from to thank both our Ombudsman and Commissioner Wallström.
Therefore, citizens are not only the victims of individual cases; they are indeed also active fellow players who are working to ensure that the EU's extremely transparent system is both understandable and close to citizens.
It is absolutely crucial that this can be done in reality and is not simply something that we can boast about around the world.
I believe he has the support of the European Parliament, but he must also have that of the Commission, and not just in word, but also in deed.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we read in Mrs Sbarbati's report that, according to the 2006 statistics, over 90% of the 3 800 or so complaints come from individual citizens, which is a very interesting fact.
It is not surprising that the wrong use of the discretionary powers of the Commission is well in the lead in the ranking, and I would therefore exhort the European Ombudsman to scrutinise relations between citizens, the Council, the Commission and Parliament more thoroughly.
May I conclude with thanks, again, not only to you, Madam President, for delighting us with your presence, but also to the Ombudsman and the Commissioner for being here as well. (EL) Madam President, it seems we have really begun to understand how important it is that European citizens should feel close to the Union through democratic and especially transparent institutions.
The European Ombudsman is the institution par excellence for receiving citizens' complaints.
The European citizen was, is, and always will be, the centre of our efforts as a functioning Union.
The work of both those entities is very often interlinked, and their smooth cooperation is to be much appreciated and praised. (PL) Madam President, I represent Poland, a country that is in fifth position, statistically, as regards the number of complaints submitted to the European Ombudsman.
It is worth emphasising that last year the European Ombudsman received fewer complaints than in 2005.
In conclusion, I would like to express satisfaction that only 8% of the investigations instigated by the Ombudsman related to the European Parliament, while almost 66% related to the European Commission. (SV) Thank you Madam President.
It surely cannot be the case that any Members here are afraid of not being re-elected in 2009 if it emerges in the media how employees are treated in certain cases, I say in certain cases.
Thank you. (EL) Madam President, I should, of course, like to mention that we are examining the 10th report by the Ombudsman, who in 2006 received 3 889 letters or e-mails of complaint, 3 619 of which were sent by individual members of the public.
In other words, there were, in a single year, a total of 838 complaints within the mandate.
I therefore think that the Ombudsman's department is large enough in terms of staff and resources to handle 838 complaints, which, of course, mainly concern matters of maladministration by the Commission and the European Personnel Selection Office, and to a lesser degree the European Parliament and the Council.
We are therefore requesting not a change in the Ombudsman's Statute, but rather a strengthening of the rights that we already accord him.
This should allow him to show due respect for citizens, be very active in the correct administration of European institutions, and respect the personal data of citizens, Members of the European Parliament, and employees who are required to maintain secrecy.
Madam President, I wish to begin by thanking the Ombudsman, Mr Diamandouros, and Ms Sbarbati for their excellent work on the Ombudsman's report.
The service that the Ombudsman provides is extremely important for the citizen: it enhances the positive connection between Europe's institutions and the citizen and enriches the legitimacy of the work we do in the institutions, whether it is in Parliament, the Commission or the Council.
The failure of European institutions, with the exception of the Ombudsman, to implement the European Code of Good Administrative Behaviour in accordance with the 2001 Resolution of the European Parliament may be a contributory factor.
This would indicate that our citizens do not have sufficient information about the work of the Ombudsman or that, for various reasons, they are unable to get important issues dealt with in their own countries.
There are, however, other aspects noted by Mr Diamandouros himself, which are a source of concern: more than 75% of complaints are not about European competences but national or regional competences.
Another problem highlighted is the fall in instances of maladministration concluded by friendly agreement or consensus.
The office of Ombudsman is today well established and I would like to congratulate it on its good work.
For example, there should be a clear commitment regarding the time within which these agencies must reply to citizens once they receive their complaints, and also a commitment regarding the maximum length of time they can take to give a definitive reply.
Thank you very much. (PL) I would like to express my satisfaction that the European Ombudsman fulfils his functions in a balanced and dynamic manner, both in the consideration of complaints, which numbered 3830 in 2006, and in running and completing investigations.
It is obvious that all institutions should work in a constructive manner with the Ombudsman at every stage of the procedure, and the Ombudsman should present Parliament with suggestions that, in his view, would help to improve procedures and make this cooperation even more effective.
In congratulating Professor Diamandouros on his achievements as Ombudsman, I would at the same time like to encourage him to continue his efforts and to promote his activities even more, so that, in the eyes of European citizens, he becomes a guarantor of good administration in EU institutions. (RO) Ten years after the institution of the European Ombudsman was established, I am pleased to find the evolution of its role and activities in the process of protecting the European citizen.
The 2006 activity report proves to us that, nowadays, European citizens benefit from a true competent court where they can defend themselves against any institution and, in fact, prevent and signal their defective operation.
This proves to us that, in Europe, we still have problems in ensuring full linguistic rights and equality among citizens.
The European Ombudsman is one of the principal bodies in the democratic life of the European Union.
To improve the effectiveness of the Ombudsman's activities it would be worth considering the possibility of preparing lists of best administrative practice, with exemplary or exceptional cases in which the Ombudsman was involved in any given year, as well as a list of the cases where the actions of institutions were less appropriate.
In addition, in order to ensure that the Ombudsman is fully and decisively involved, support should be given to the idea that the Ombudsman should also carry out investigations in the so-called third pillar, that is, Police and Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, which would also extend to the activities of Europol.
Ombudsman. - Madam President, first of all I wish to thank Ms Sbarbati, the rapporteur for my Annual Report for 2006 at this year's plenary.
The Petitions Committee and the Ombudsman will continue to be the major instrument through which this august body will also be able to deal with citizens' approaches to the European institutions.
I wish to thank Ms Wallström for her remarks.
Ombudsman. (EL) Mrs Panayiotopoulos, I want to assure you that the European Ombudsman is fully aware of his obligation to work within the legal limits.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to respond to two direct questions.
The first concerns the reform of the Statute of the Ombudsman.
Of course, there are some things we could easily approve, but others are more complicated.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) Mrs Sbarbati's report on the European Ombudsman's activities is evidence of her regard for this institution, which was set up under the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 to defend European citizens in the event of maladministration by Community institutions.
There is, in fact, a downward trend in the number of cases referred to the Ombudsman (3 830 in 2006, a decrease of 2% from 2005), and complaints tend to come from Member States that already have a culture of encouraging people to raise issues with the relevant national institutions.
