Your rapporteur rightly, I think, underlines the importance of the work entailed in the 1 000 or more petitions you receive each year.
The right of petition, enshrined in the EC Treaty in Articles 21 and 194, is a significant feature of European citizenship as it enables any European Union citizen and any natural or legal person residing or having a registered office in a Member State to address the European Parliament on matters falling within the EU's remit.
For example, 1 032 petitions were submitted in 2005 and 1 016 in 2006.
I also want to point out that in its dialogue with the European Commission the committee has constantly underlined the important role petitions play in achieving the common goal of bringing Europe closer to the citizens.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, firstly, I would like to complain once again about the fact that this report in particular is being dealt with at such an inconvenient hour in terms of its public resonance.
We need appropriate human resources, we need appropriate response times, we need better workflows, we need a more transparent procedure for citizens, and we need a better method of sifting out unimportant and inadmissible petitions at an early stage so that we can focus on those that are admissible and important.
There are examples: the M30 motorway project in Madrid, which I, myself, visited on behalf of the committee, where the authorities are still not implementing the agreed actions to remedy their breaches of EU law; a similar case regarding lettori in Italy, who have been frustrated in their search for fair play for over 20 years; and the inadequate laws and procedures to protect drinking water and archaeological heritage in Ireland.
If their petition is declared admissible, they want it dealt with in an efficient and timely way, and in this I particularly support the rapporteur on paragraphs 9, 10 and 12, where he calls on both the Commission and the committee to improve their timeliness.
I also agree with the rapporteur on paragraphs 25 and 26, where he calls for the need to strengthen the committee secretariat and the need to find the necessary financial resources to continue the development of the e-petition software system.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Madam President, Mr Iturgaiz, I would like to thank you for this excellent report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, I consider the Committee on Petitions one of the most valuable committees in Parliament, if not the most valuable.
Those who will do so will surely find us standing right there behind them. (PL) Madam President, the European Parliament received 1 016 petitions in 2006.
It is a fact that every year approximately 1 000 petitions are received, some 2 500 documents, and that as many documents again are sent out annually.
Again, in relation to Equitable Life, it was very important for us not to promise more to people than we could actually deliver.
I would say this and I have said it to my colleagues in the PPE-DE Group: I think we need a quality-control measure on the work of the committee so that we can do our work better, that we ask petitioners after we have gone through the process what they thought of us in terms of the work we did.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank all the speakers in this very interesting debate for their positive contributions.
