There will be official consultations about this, and the administration will be able to deal with it immediately. &#160;&#160; The next item is the presentation of the Court of Auditors’ annual report for 2004. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, let me thank you, on behalf of the members of the European Court of Auditors, for the invitation to the debate on the Court’s report – its 28th – on the financial year 2004, which I presented to the Committee on Budgetary Control yesterday evening.
Among the main sources for the annual report are the financial audits and checks on legality and propriety that the Court has carried out.
What made the financial year 2004 noteworthy was the accession of 10 new Member States, which meant that the estimates for payments rose from EUR&#160;98 billion in 2003 to EUR&#160;105 billion in 2004.
As was the case in the past, the accounting system used to draw up the annual accounts for 2004 is not equal to the task of listing all the assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, although it has to be said that the Commission made distinct progress in introducing accrual accounting in time for the financial year 2005.
As regards the lawfulness and regularity of the underlying transactions, the Court stated, in its Statement of Assurance, that consideration of the financial year 2004 led the Court to the conclusion that the supervision and monitoring systems that had been installed were operating effectively and that the underlying transactions, considered overall in relation to receipts, commitments, administrative expenditure and the pre-accession strategy as part of the payment appropriations were lawful and regular.
The Court is able to report, and for the first time, that the efforts by the Commission and the Member States in connection with the introduction of the Integrated Administration and Control System– abbreviated to ‘IACS’ – which covers 59% of agricultural expenditure, have had a positive effect.
The Court came to the view that transactions relating to receipts were conducted lawfully and in good order, but systemic faults were discovered in the handling of GNI own resources, both within the Commission and at Member State level.
In the same way as in previous years, the Court has found more evidence indicating that errors are still endemic in expenditure under the common agricultural policy as a whole.
The Court, having conducted spot-checks on the structural programmes, again found weaknesses in all of their administration and control systems at Member State level.
On auditing the Member States, the Court found such weaknesses as the failure to carry out checks or to document them, the failure to check eligibility criteria for funding and lack of evidence of the co-funded services having been performed.
The Court examined a spot-check of 167 projects and discovered a broad spectrum of problems, including a large number of cases in which expenditure was reported on projects not eligible for grants.
In the internal policy areas directly administered by the Commission, the Court discovered that the supervision and control systems – despite the progress achieved in some areas – did not operate in an appropriate manner, and that there was a high incidence of errors in the underlying transactions.
The Court did, however, uncover weaknesses at national level in the systems of the implementing organisations in Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey and other Sapard countries.
The legislation, rules and procedures applicable to expenditure are still often over-complicated.
In its Opinion No 2/2004 on the ‘single audit’ model, the Court proposed the creation of a common internal audit framework including every level of administration, whether Community institutions, Member States and recipient countries.
The Court welcomes this initiative on the part of the Commission for a roadmap.
It has to be said that the Court’s position on another issue, that of the future of the finance, management and control of the common agricultural policy and the structural measures, should be taken into account in the final formulation of these important pieces of legislation.
The provisions relating to the retention of documents in the present draft Regulations on structural measures would make it impossible for the Court to audit some of the items of expenditure concerned.
There are those who see the latest events – the voters’ rejection of the draft constitution in two referenda in two Member States, and the difficulty of coming to any agreement on the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective – as indicating a lack of confidence on the part of the public in the European Union and its institutions.
The Member States, too, must discharge their responsibilities in connection with the administration and control of much of the EU’s Budget.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President of the Court, Mr Weber, for the fair presentation of the 2004 annual report and the Members of the Parliament for giving me the opportunity to give the Commission’s first reaction.
The Commission welcomes the Court’s positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts, which faithfully reflect the revenue and expenditure of the Communities for the year and their financial position at the year-end.
This means that the accounts met their primary objective and that the accounts have been drawn up according to the provisions of the Financial Regulation in force.
The conclusions of the Court have not always been fully understood by the general public and the media.
I liked very much the remark in the President of the Court’s speech that makes it clear that the Court’s qualified opinion on certain areas cannot be interpreted as meaning all transactions of the 2004 payment budget are affected by error, nor can it be interpreted as an indicator of fraud.
This procedure shows that the Commission is accountable to directly elected Members of Parliament.
The 2003 discharge resolution gave very valuable guidance on how to further improve, and we are working to do that.
As you know, this Commission has proposed a ‘roadmap to an integrated internal control framework’, looking for support in Parliament and Council.
But a cascade of operational management declarations by payment and similar agencies is not an impossible goal, though a national synthesis report for each sector, similar to that which the Commission draws up on the basis of the annual activity reports of its directors-general, will be more difficult to achieve.
Our action plan towards an integrated internal control framework will be published next month.
It is based on the results of the ‘gap assessment’ between the control framework in place for all types of budgetary expenditure and the general principles defined by the Court in its opinion No&#160;2/2004 on a single audit.
I would especially mention here two quotations from the speech made by the President of the Court: ‘in structural matters, the Court found weaknesses in the management and control systems in the Member States across all programmes’; and the second quotation: ‘in the area of internal policies the Court notes that the errors often stem from complicated rules’.
A large part of the complexity often comes not from the officials but from clients, policy makers, politicians in Member States and Members of the European Parliament.
Efforts have clearly been made all over the place, but, at the end of the day, this is an unachievable goal following the 11 examinations of the accounts by our Court of Auditors.
Mr President of the Court of Auditors, as you know, at the last discharge, this European Parliament called for national statements of conformity on the part of Finance Ministries.
The objective was to help the Court to publish a positive Statement of Assurance.
The ECOFIN of 8 November, as Commissioner Kallas has said, has rejected such national statements.
I would like to ask you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, about what you think of the usefulness of these statements to your work, in terms of your relations with the national authorities, and about the future without such statements.
Tell us – and this well help you – which are the three best Member States and which are the three worst. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you for giving me the floor.
I should also like to thank the Court of Auditors for a constructive annual report.
I wish to thank the Court of Auditors for an annual report that helps us MEPs fulfil two objectives: firstly, that of eradicating the misunderstandings and, secondly, that of coming up with good advice and helping solve those problems that do in actual fact exist, for problems there undoubtedly are.
Over the next few months, we must debate the annual report in more detail and implement the discharge procedure.
I can only echo the sentiments that have already been expressed by other speakers, namely that it is extremely regrettable that, for the eleventh time in succession, a positive Statement of Assurance has not been forthcoming, and that is something that will stick in people’s minds.
The other benches are also exceptionally devoid of representative of the Member States this morning.
In 2004, experience in the new Member States had not yet been taken into consideration.
We hope that in future, the control mechanisms will remain in place in the new countries too.
I welcome the peer review, which the President of the Court of Auditors did not mention this morning, but did announce yesterday, about the running of the Court of Auditors itself.
An initial cursory reading of the annual report tells us that the Commission has organised itself more effectively since the fall of the Santer Commission and since the start of the reform process.
The bad news is that, for the eleventh time in succession, the Court of Auditors has failed to issue a positive Statement of Assurance (DAS).
A central problem in this connection is that 80 to 85% of the management and supervision is shared with the Member States.
For example, over the past five years, Philip Morris, the tobacco giant, has received EUR 6.5 million in the Netherlands for adding sugar to cigarettes.
Three weeks ago I made a speech in this House calling for the 2006 budget to be rejected on the grounds that this Parliament has no business authorising further expenditure when we have the shame of a decade of dodgy unapproved accounts behind us.
The British Government is under an obligation to spend taxpayers’ money wisely and yet it goes on tamely writing the cheques to the European Union.
Incidentally, I look at the attendance of Members here today as an indication of the importance they attach to the handling of the taxpayers’ money by the European Union.
That would be a first step towards transparency and towards making monitoring possible, both of which we need if we are to help this Union of ours regain its credibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, listening to the UK Independence Party talking about the Commission not being able to manage its grandchildren’s pocket money, I must say that I would rather have the Commission managing it than the UK Independence Party!
My second point is that I would like to congratulate the Commission.
Eighty per cent of the money used in the European Union is used in the Member States.
This is another reason why it is good that the report before us gives a positive, realistic and balanced statement regarding how European Union money was spent in both the old and new Member States.
The Court of Auditors’ Annual Report 2004 shows the impact of the reforms launched last year.
The reform is based on mutual trust and close cooperation between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Court of Auditors.
It is obvious that the current support accounting system prevents the attainment of the main fiscal objective of the EU – to transparently and efficiently use the funds of the EU budget.
I am optimistic in believing that the reforms and an integrated internal control system may be instrumental in coping with the outstanding problems. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by issuing a protest against our having to debate the Court of Auditors’ report without having access to it in advance, a state of affairs that puts us at a big disadvantage.
This applies both to us at the European Parliament, as well as to the European Commission, but also to the Member States themselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much want to congratulate the Court of Auditors on this report.
In the internal policy sphere, six out of eleven Directors-General are unable to give an unconditional guarantee.
If we do that, we will be much more successful in our dealings with the Member States than we are at present. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I can echo what Mr Bösch said.
I think we are oversimplifying things if we say that, as 80% of funds are administered by the Member States, it is for them to see to it that everything is in order.
We, in the Terence Wynn report – and let me make this quite clear – said that we wanted to involve the national and – where they exist – provincial Courts of Auditors in the discharge procedure.
I look forward to the debates in the Committee on the Control of Budgets and to the discharge procedure, which will be completed early next year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a week ago the Ecofin Council rejected Parliament’s proposals for national declarations, which in effect means that we will not see a positive DAS in the foreseeable future.
Parliament needs to know which Member States agree, and which disagree, with its position.
That is a message that must be conveyed to the Council loudly and strongly. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, our being able to present our report to policymakers, among them the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Kallas, makes this a great day for the Court of Auditors.
Without doubt, there is a certain amount that remains to be done in some areas, not only by the Commission, but also by the Member States.
Hundreds of times over, we have done spot-checks and examined transactions.
What matters is that our conclusions be taken seriously and acted on in good time.
The Court also has to provide a clear outline of the practical measures that the Commission has to adopt in order to achieve a positive DAS.
In Europe’s present context of disrepute, the weak points in the management and control systems must not allow the Eurosceptics to undermine the fundamental principles and main policies of the Union, which are aimed at strengthening territorial, economic and social cohesion.
As for the institutions, we have had to face all these difficulties without the help of a Constitution and, until now, without having a multiannual budgetary framework.
The Union has been led to wonder about the integration process itself, but we are convinced and our Commission is convinced that there has never been such a need for the European Union as there is today.
Working closely with Parliament, we have all been equal to the challenges.
Here are some examples of what we have accomplished together: the renewal of the Lisbon Strategy; a revision of the Stability and Growth Pact that will strengthen the credibility of Europe’s economic governance; more solidarity, thanks to the adoption of a renewed social agenda; full recognition of the key role played by social dialogue and the actors involved in this dialogue; the fight for a cleaner environment, by means of the adoption of thematic strategies and the pursuit of our international action in the sphere of climate change; greater security thanks to the implementation of our ambitious Hague Programme in parallel with a large number of other initiatives, in particular our proposal on data retention; the promotion of European values worldwide – in this regard, let us cite the commitment made to double EU aid for developing countries and the adoption of a strategy for Africa; strengthening our partnerships with our strategic allies such as the United States and pursuing an open dialogue with new and important partners such as China; and, finally, opening accession negotiations with Turkey and Croatia.
The set of initiatives that we developed in 2005 is the first tangible expression of the strategic objectives that we set ourselves over five years.
The programme that we are presenting today remains faithful to the objectives that we adopted at the start of our mandate: prosperity, solidarity in an enlarged Europe, security and a strengthened role for Europe in the world.
These objectives remain pertinent.
The framework agreement is a tangible expression of this partnership between our two institutions.
It has enabled a close and targeted dialogue to take place between the parliamentary committees and the Commissioners on the best way to translate the annual policy strategy into practical initiatives.
I am keen to tell you that this dialogue has made a positive contribution to the programme that I am presenting to you today.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, releasing Europe’s full potential is the approach maintained by the Commission in drafting its legislative and work programme for 2006.
The Commission will fully undertake its role in instigating, managing and supporting the Member States’ efforts.
The Member States’ national reform programmes, which we are already analysing, will play a fundamental role in this process.
We need to link these programmes to our political priorities, to improve the Union’s economic governance and to strengthen national and European efforts in relation to reform and investment – an investment at national level, but also at European level with a view to tomorrow’s economy, to innovation, to knowledge and to new infrastructures.
These two types of investment – at national and at European level – must go hand in hand.
We have to support these efforts by means of other initiatives, such as the proposals aimed at supplementing the single market, the promotion of geographical and professional mobility and, for example, the creation of a European Technology Institute.
I emphasise in particular the proposals on the single market made by Parliament itself in its resolution on the work programme.
I should like to highlight, in this context, the importance of the measures aimed at providing a framework that supports the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main source of jobs in Europe.
The second aspect relates to solidarity.
Solidarity remains a fundamental part of European integration, and I should like to speak in this Chamber about solidarity between employers and employees.
I should also like to speak about solidarity between generations, through sound management of natural resources, including marine resources, and the implementation of a new strategy for sustainable development – by the way, we shall present this new strategy in December.
Solidarity between generations is also brought about by creating jobs for young people and by seeking fair solutions for pension funding.
Such a procedure would undoubtedly have taken several years in the absence of Community instruments.
This is therefore an area in which the people, including people from the countries least enthusiastic about European integration, are clearly asking more, and not less, of Europe and the European Union.
The problems encountered by some of our Member States are not exclusive to these countries: in reality, such problems affect the whole of Europe.
We have to stand firm in fighting against this scourge, in collaboration with the Member States.
Yet, it is our responsibility to act at the same time with regard to development aid in the countries of origin.
We have to combine our approach to immigration with our approach to development and, at the same time, we have to do everything possible to ensure the harmonious integration of communities of foreign origin in our countries.
We also intend to carry out our action in the area of health protection and consumer protection, an area that also comes under the broader sphere of security.
One crucial element will also consist in the development of a rapid reaction capacity on the part of those responsible for civil protection.
Our ambition for 2006 extends to Europe’s becoming a more influential global partner.
On this subject, furthermore, 2006 must also provide tangible results: tangible results as regards the enlargement process and the stabilisation and association process; tangible results for our neighbourhood policy, which represents a very important policy for stability in Europe and in its closer geographical context; tangible results as regards the fight against poverty, with our promise to double the amount of aid transformed into a tangible reality; and, finally, results as regards promoting European values in the world, in particular through support for the political transition and reconstruction in Afghanistan, Iraq and Palestine.
In the European Union strong exports boost our growth.
The costs of failure are high, not just for all trading nations, but also for the fair, rules-based international trading system we have worked so hard to create, as well as for global business confidence.
That is why the Commission will put forward ideas before Hong Kong on how to make sure this really is a development round.
Tomorrow we will discuss the follow-up to Hampton Court.
The new consensus that began to emerge there links up with our debate today.
The European institutions must play a central role in this process, rebuilding a consensus and reconnecting with citizens.
That is why I have announced today that the Commission will come forward with a new truly European energy policy in 2006.
It is all too easy to forget that one of the achievements of 2005 was to make an enlarged European Union work and much of the credit for that must go to the new Member States.
The challenge is to make this enlarged Europe work.
I am confident, because there is a growing understanding that the endless debates about widening or deepening and about the market or social protection are at an end and that even in the middle of the difficulties we know, there is a growing awareness that we need a more European dimension if we want to solve the problems facing us.
Yes, this is about pragmatic Europe, but pragmatism with principles, adding value in areas where we can make a difference, shaping policies that provide an answer to globalisation and meet the challenges and opportunities of our ageing population, a Europe that is part of the solution and not of the problem.
I have left perhaps the most important message about the 2006 work programme until last.
The plans for 2006 will count for little without agreement next month on the financial perspectives.
Agreement on the financial perspectives is a key to unlocking Europe’s potential in 2006.
I trust in the common sense of the British Presidency to deliver a fair and balanced agreement next month.
I hope that it will do so by strengthening, not reducing, the ambition the Commission and Parliament share for an enlarged Europe.
My call to you today for 2006 is that we consolidate and build on this new consensus, that we restore that shared sense of purpose that will get Europe back on its feet; a united Europe acting collectively on matters that most concern our citizens.
For something is missing in this plan D, namely determination: your determination to find practical solutions.
What concerns me, Mr&#160;Barroso, is knowing what jobs we will have in Europe in five years’ time.
Growth, employment and security are the three pillars on which Europe has to construct its policy.
Although it is undeniable that Europe has to support our closest neighbours’ efforts to promote democracy, you must nonetheless not give the impression of moving too quickly and of wanting constantly to enlarge the Union when we have resolved neither the problem of our institutions nor that of Europe’s finances.
Doing so is important, among other things, for supporting research.
Each Commissioner should issue on a quarterly basis a clear and precise account of the state of play.
The Commission not only wants to tackle the problems faced by Europeans today, but also the issues at stake tomorrow.
Two aspects seem to be particularly important.
Although it is one of the Member States’ powers to create this environment, the European Union can try to gather together the best initiatives within the 25 Member States and propose effective solutions with regard to health policy.
The other aspect relates to the sustainable management of natural resources and, in particular, the impetus given to energy policy.
The proposal for an action plan in respect of energy efficiency and the proposal concerning the draft Green Paper, aimed at guaranteeing safe, competitive and sustainable energy sources, are along the right lines.
You know that a good number of projects are awaiting this budget.
There is also the need for a scheme whereby access to research resources may be improved for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular.
You were right to make reference to social issues, but it is far from clear enough from the programme that economic and social development must go hand in hand.
There is a great deal of scepticism on the part of the public; many people in the old Member States get the impression that enlargement is being used to lower social standards and cut taxes.
We – and by that I mean the old and new Member States together – must aim to accomplish a social Europe.
If you assume such a leadership role, we will support you, but, if you do so, please make a social Europe one of your objectives! &#160;&#160; .
The four core areas – to which reference has already been made – are very definitely the right ones.
It follows that the claim that this policy is close to the public’s concerns is still very far from being backed up.
It is also important that we should be ambitious in driving forward the reform of agricultural policy by, among other things, reallocating more funds to agricultural research and technology.
That must be part of our workaday lives; it must become our daily labour.
Another term to be found, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is dignity, together with the term justice.
That is what a study carried out by the World Wide Fund indicates, and it would be interesting if, as part of this sustainable development strategy, the Commission were to tell us whether it recognises this finding and if it draws any conclusions from it in terms of European public policies.
As regards the issue of businesses and competitiveness, ecologists are absolutely convinced that businesses are not the main, but the crucial, actors in terms of sustainable development.
We therefore want 20% to 25% renewable energy by 2020 and we want cars that consume 2.5 litres of petrol per 100 km by 2020, because 70% of oil consumption is linked to transport in the European Union.
As far as the economic and social issue is concerned, Mr&#160;Barroso, it would be wise to convince the people that the single European market cannot be constructed on the basis of social dumping.
Let it be known from this moment on – by doing so, you will not exceed your prerogatives – that the compromise put forward by Mrs&#160;Gebhardt on the country of origin principle can be acceptable to the Commission.
Let the new Member States and, above all, the governments know too that the restriction clauses imposed on labour law for all EU citizens are useless and unacceptable and that, on 1 May 2006, they can be removed.
I do not have time to continue but, if you like, I could speak to you about them in another context. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of the parliamentary term I said in this House that this Parliament resulted from elections in which all the government parties were defeated – starting with your country, Mr&#160;Barroso, Portugal.
Indeed, his presidency is coming to an end and we have not even reached agreement on the budget.
We must guarantee democracy and not the so-called security packages that adversely affect democratic rights and have furthermore been rejected by the UK Parliament.
Mr Barroso, your determination to create a unitary state of Europe has not been diminished by anything as inconvenient as the referendum results in France and Holland.
That is pretty rich in the very week that the Court of Auditors is refusing to sign off your accounts for the eleventh year in a row.
You lost the Constitution and you are now treating the voters of France and Holland with contempt.
One of the key factors in assessing the work programme is to verify that the ideas and proposals put forward in it respond to the current needs of the citizens of the European Union.
I should like to refer briefly to one or two points President Barroso made in his presentation.
Farmers are being asked to make further reductions and sacrifices, despite being told that the 1999 reform constituted a final settlement on the CAP.
It is high time that the European Union took the rights of children seriously, as they constitute over 40% of our population but have no standing or status in European policies or ideas, except in the words we use to express our will to protect them.
The time is ripe to move towards a common European market in energy in which we can utilise the collective strength of the 25 Member States to lever a better price, and to bring together the minds, intelligence and innovation available in those 25 countries to look into alternative fuel supplies, and in particular to look into new ways and new mechanisms for conserving energy.
However, in determining what the financial perspective should be, the onus must be on the Member States to come up with a package, because once again they are the paymasters of future European Union action.
The fact that the governments have so far failed to reach agreement on this is unacceptable to everyone.
In fact, it is ironic that the governments of the new Member States are the ones giving the lead on how to resolve the financial perspectives issue.
I welcome the opportunity to work with you, President Barroso, and with your Commission to deliver on this programme. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, the Ceuta affair has come and gone, the Melilla affair has come and gone and now it is the suburbs that are on fire.
Global warming, for example, which seems logical; when cars and schools are on fire, there is indeed a problem in terms of global warming and, therefore, in terms of respecting the Kyoto protocol.
The Council, which today is conspicuous by its absence, has, once again, embarrassingly failed to take part in this planning work, let alone set priorities for it.
It could have left its mark on this procedure, by approaching Parliament and the Commission, instead of leaving us all in the dark about what is meant to happen next and what proposals the Council itself is going to make.
It would be a good thing if this work programme really were to include all the projects that we know even now to be on the agenda for 2006, and if it paid greater heed to the idea of subsidiarity as regards procedures and substance. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commission said that the Lisbon Strategy was reflected in this work programme.
You perhaps remember that we had a debate about the balance in the Lisbon Strategy.
We in Parliament expressed the view that social policy, social justice and social cohesion should not be seen as add-ons after growth and employment.
The first concerns the new forms of employment: what are known as the atypical forms of employment, of which there is now an avalanche and which involve less security, reduced influence and probably more stress in workplaces.
The lives of more of our citizens are blighted by the lack of access to civil justice or cross-border redress mechanisms than, fortunately, are directly touched by terrorism.
Please concentrate on civil justice. &#160;&#160; I have familiarised myself with the document from the Commission.
My conclusion is unambiguous: a lot of talk and not much action.
EU legislation promotes the notion that European work should become cheap labour, the export of jobs abroad and flying the flag of convenience in the Member States’ job markets.
The Commission proposes to manipulate public opinion in such a way that it takes a more favourable view of it.
In any case, the majority in the referenda in France and the Netherlands voted against the Commission’s communication and propaganda dictatorship.
Monitoring on the basis of the principle of proximity should begin in Parliament’s specialist committees, so that the social committees deal with proposals in the social sphere and the transport committees with transport proposals etc. – a procedure adopted in Denmark’s European Affairs Committee last Friday.
The Commission’s work programme, presented accurately and with conviction by Mr&#160;Barroso, is rightly centred on certain key objectives: prosperity, solidarity and security as well as the role of the Union as a global partner.
These are issues that require unremitting commitment, an effective strategy and by extension adequate resources for measures that will have a genuine impact on the European socio-economic situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as my group’s coordinator in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I would like to welcome the attention given by the Commission to completing the internal market in a number of important areas and to thank the Commissioner and his team for that.
I am involved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which also has many transatlantic contacts.
What I have noticed is that there is a kind of reversal in the assessment of developments, particularly on the financial market.
I do not know whether you saw the headline of this morning’s , which once again read that the United States envies us for what this House achieved in the last part-session.
The market cannot manage on its own.
The Commission’s decision to do away with unnecessary regulation and bureaucracy and simplify EU law should be supported.
That would also bring our citizens closer to the EU and would provide the EU with a mandate to carry out its work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Commission work programme reflects its honourable efforts to serve, in the best possible way, the imperialist interests of the European Union and the choices of big business.
Despite the objections voiced in the Council, an agreement is being promoted with sweeping changes for the financial perspectives for 2007 to 2013 at the expense of farmers and workers in general.
The Commission is trying to adjust its legislative programme for 2006 to new circumstances not with changes of political direction, but on the basis of its commitments for its 5-year term of office and the choices of the monopolies.
The main axis of its policy is communications policy.
More liberalisation of the markets, with electricity and natural gas in their sights.
Integration of the internal market in services, post offices and so forth, privatisation of public utilities, new shipping policy measures and the promotion of new tax measures to the detriment of the workers.
A uniform strategy to promote the anti-grass roots Lisbon objectives on the basis of the national action programmes and the promotion of anti-labour plans for young people women and the workers in general.
Those prerequisites are, admittedly, deregulation and lower taxes, but they are also healthier people living in a healthier environment.
Therefore, we look to the Commission to step up its responsibilities for health, health promotion, public health, health emergencies, mental health, disability, patient mobility and information for patients.
The poor attendance in this House is simply unacceptable and shows a lack of respect for the Commission.
In the little time available to me, I should like to outline the problem in a number of major points.
These two types of investment must go hand in hand’.
President of the Commission, let us make a deal today in which you tell this Parliament that, in the next weeks and months, you and your Commission will formulate a strategy to ensure that, when we meet at the European Employment Council in spring, we have this message as a common approach from the European Council.
You, together with the Economic Affairs Commissioner and the Commission as a whole, will inspire the governments to make a deal, promising in the next two, three or four years to invest simultaneously and to be coordinated.
Of course, the session Presidency appreciates the fact that the Commission is here in force for this important debate, even though the Council benches are rather empty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a year ago, President Barroso promised us during the Buttiglione case that he would make European fundamental rights a key priority.
There may be a communication in 2006 about gender equality, which we welcome, but what about the other categories of discrimination?
In all the areas in which we have made our interest known, and which you, verbally at any rate, have declared to be priorities – among them civil law, copyright, human rights, children’s rights, consumers’ rights – none of the proposals are legislative in character.
Nor can I see any initiative being taken on services of general economic interest.
My overall view is that you have listened too little to what this House has been telling you in the preparatory phase. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome many aspects of the Commission programme but I am disappointed that there is not more reference to disabled people or elderly people.
With regard to health and safety at work, I would also like to see an amendment to the 2000 biological agents directive, to protect health workers from contracting HIV and Hepatitis C from needle-stick injuries.
In that spirit, could he look again at the 2004 electromagnetic fields directive and the serious impact it could have on the use of state-of-the-art MRI scanners and see his way to bringing forward an amendment to this directive to make sure that MRI scanners will be protected in the future? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Barroso on the report he has given us this morning.
However, like many of my colleagues I too ask him to bring together its priorities, so as to define clearly the package of proposals and the objectives that we wish to achieve during the next five years.
As you know, there is a conflict in Europe today between those who have more rights and those who have fewer, those who have jobs and those who do not, those who have access to good schools and teachers and those who have no such access, as is the case in the suburbs of Paris.
It is therefore necessary, in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy, to address the issue of the under-representation of women in the workplace and the fact that they are often forced into badly paid jobs that require no qualifications. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also wish to welcome the presence of the whole Commission and deplore the absence of many colleagues, which is in part because we all have TV monitors in our offices and it is so easy to watch the debates whilst working in your office.
We must remember that this work programme is very important but that it is taking place in a wider context, which is a profound debate about where our European Union is going, what its future is.
We are in a period of reflection – and in a period of reflection about the Constitution – which has begun not on the text but on the context.
This work programme is part of that wider context.
The future of our social economic model with the special summit at Hampton Court is part of that context.
However, in the context where those anti-Europeans in my country and others portray the European Union as one massive bureaucracy-producing machine spewing out regulations, it is incumbent upon all of us to point out that, when we get it right, European legislation is an exercise in cutting red tape, relieving burdens on business, providing one set of rules for the common market, one patent, one registration for a trademark, one form to fill in, one fee to pay instead of 25.
With regard to the programme, which, far from being a bureaucratic or statistical exercise, is a vital political element&#160;– and I, as the Chairman of the Conference of Committee Chairmen, am delighted by that&#160;– I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Wallström for her many appearances before our Conference, and I also thank the Commissioners who conducted bilateral discussions with the relevant parliamentary committees throughout the procedure.
Of course, some improvements are still needed, including in Parliament, as regards our attendance in this Chamber.
Subject to the analysis of the work programme that the political groups proposed and will conduct, with a view to adopting a proposal for a resolution, during the part-session in December, I think I can say that this programme contains the principal priorities set out by the parliamentary committees in its main chapters, namely priority, solidarity, security and external responsibility.
Certain proposals have not been retained by the Commission.
However, the important thing is that Parliament, as co-legislator, must be kept fully informed of the reasons why the Commission, in exercising its right of initiative, has not followed up on Parliament’s wishes.
Finally, the programme represents only one aspect of a broader agenda under the rubric ‘better regulation’ and, in this regard, we attach considerable importance to the transposition and simplification of European legislation.
A decent solution is required in terms of comitology and I would like to stress the need, next year, to include simplification measures and withdrawal proposals in the legislative and work programme, in order to give this exercise greater visibility and transparency.
I am delighted with the commitment that Mrs&#160;Wallström made in this regard during our last meeting on 13&#160;October and I am convinced that all of the parliamentary committees will be active in ensuring that this programme is implemented. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the Commission programme represents an attempt to assess the situation of Europe and the European Union, and to identify the threats we are facing.
They relate to the achievement of prosperity through knowledge, of solidarity through work, and of security through the restriction of civil liberties and law enforcement.
My final point is that in my opinion the Commission’s stated intention to set up a ‘new structure’ responsible for implementing better legislation has an ominous ring to it, since it would mean replacing the current system, where proposals are judged on their content, by a formal procedure.
Mr&#160;Barroso, we expect fewer lofty words, fewer promises, and a greater number of courageous and effective actions.
It is not just the Members of this House who expect such things, but also the citizens of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Commission’s work programme for 2006 is going in the right direction as regards social responsibilities, labour law and jobs.
I was very pleased to hear Commission President Barroso’s clear commitment to creating a unified market for services.
This step is an important one in terms of completing the single market and will lead to the creation of many new jobs.
We need balanced policy in these areas to ensure that we do not miss the 2012 express connecting service for Lisbon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the work programme for 2006 gives the European institutions a great opportunity.
It gives us the chance to show the people that we have understood them; that we have understood that the negative outcomes to the referendums in France and the Netherlands had something to do with Europe’s habit of over-regulating and denying people their right to take decisions as adults; that we have understood that all that Europe is meant to do is to set the framework conditions and that it must not get obsessed with detail and interfere in the nation states’ powers and responsibilities.
We ought really to delete three old directives for every new one planned, but nothing is being done along these lines.
I call for a more in-depth debate on the legitimacy of European legislation, and for a real start to be made on making over-regulation a thing of the past. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we are here to discuss the work programme on which we want to embark in 2006.
I have another request to make of the Commission: our response to the Basel II report was to set up the ‘Friends of the Presidency’ to work on comitology and bring about agreements on Parliament’s rights between the Commission, the Council and Parliament itself.
It is at this point that I will ask the Commission – for Commissioner McCreevy has done some preparatory work on this – to help us reach an agreement to make the comitology between Parliament and the Council more manageable.
First of all, I am delighted, as Mr&#160;Daul said in his capacity as Chairman of the Conference of Committee Chairman, at the cooperation that has been established between the Commission, on the one hand, and Parliament and its various committees, on the other, during the preparation of this work programme.
We must reach a balance, and this balance means that, whilst setting ourselves clear priorities&#160;–&#160;and we have clear priorities for the renewed Lisbon Strategy&#160;–&#160;we must respond to the very varied nature of the expectations expressed here in our discussions with you.
I have called on the Commission as a whole and all of the commissioners to be serious, realistic and objective in preparing this programme.
We have concentrated on certain objectives that we really want to achieve.
Of course, our general programme extends over five years.
This is a concern, as has just been said, that is not restricted to the Commission, but must be shared by all the institutions, including Parliament.
With regard to the sustainable development strategy, Mr&#160;Jonckheer, I must tell you that it is not my poor child, quite the opposite.
When, at Gleneagles, I, on behalf of the European Commission, submitted to our US partners and to others the importance of climate change as a major priority, it was certainly not a poor child to which I was referring.
When we announce a new strategy for sustainable development, which we are going to present in December, that also shows our commitment to this problem.
That is why we are endeavouring to reach an agreement on a common base for taxation in Europe.
We are convinced that this will enable us to make significant reductions in the costs of business and investment in our countries, whilst still giving each Member State the freedom to set levels of company taxation.
That is why we must establish a stronger mechanism for cooperation between European universities, so that we can make the most of the potential of knowledge in Europe.
That is why the efforts invested in creating a European Institute of Technology constitute an important aspect of our strategy for growth and jobs.
With regard to the policy on demographics and the family, we are the ones who put this subject on the agenda of the Hampton&#160;Court summit and we now have a clear mandate from the European Council to contribute to these considerations, or, even better, to the specific measures that we are planning to announce.
Coming to the concerns expressed by many of you, especially Mr&#160;Crowley, regarding agriculture and the multilateral negotiations, I can assure you that Europe will not allow itself to be forced into a defensive position in this context.
We do not think that we need to take any more lessons on the opening up of markets from those whose markets are much more closed than ours, which is one of the most open markets in the world, if not the most open.
Admittedly, the legal basis for legislation in this matter is not very clear, but we believe that we should not refrain from looking forward to better coordination between the European Union and Member States on children’s rights.
Indeed, we are starting to do that, and Hampton&#160;Court was a first important step in that direction.
Now it is impossible to rearrange all the priorities for this year.
As regards our analysis of the national reform programmes of the Member States, what we are doing now and – I promise this to you – what we will be doing is within the framework of the new Lisbon Strategy; we are trying to forge ahead not only based on an approach that reinforces our efforts in terms of economic and structural reform, but also based on a more common and integrated approach for investment so that we can boost growth and employment in Europe.
This idea of partnership between the Member States, the Commission and Parliament is the very basis on which we want to continue working with you for a renewed, stronger, more committed European Union project. &#160;&#160; Parliament would like to thank the President of the Commission and all of the Commissioners, who, as I said, are here in force.
The debate is closed.
I am outraged that such a thing is again being allowed in the European Parliament.
This morning, the Libyan Supreme Court delayed a decision on their case until January 2006.
We merely have the duty of verifying, through the Quaestors, whether the practices and procedure for authorisations have been effectively complied with and if so, whether the initiative and the exhibition conform, in content, form and pictures, with the rules of Parliament and with the practices that we follow on every such occasion.
It is an own-initiative report, and, moreover, a very justified one in view of the fact that eel stocks in Europe have dwindled by 95%.
At the moment, a new directive has been tabled on the basis of this report and it shows that we in the Committee on Fisheries are given the opportunity to achieve decisive policy for European fisheries and to ensure that eel stocks remain steady, that the exports of glass eel to Central Asia are restricted and that control measures are put in place so that Member States can finally address this problem. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a one-word oral amendment, which has the support of the rapporteur and hopefully other parties and which I hope is not controversial.
It concerns corporate social responsibility.
We must also safeguard the competitiveness of European products, which can hold their own in the international market only by rising to the challenge of quality.
Finally, I consider that the proposal to add to the information on product labelling is very useful.
I have therefore supported it and have also requested the Non-attached Group to support Mr&#160;Daul’s excellent report. &#160;&#160; We have voted against the three Daul reports.
In Mongolia since the fall of Communism, unlike in many of the other countries of Central Asia, we have seen the establishment of a vigorous democracy where political power was transferred from one party to another on several occasions in a peaceful manner.
It is a poor country where recent droughts have posed enormous problems.
For example, disabled people are effectively denied their right to free movement - to seek employment for example - because the level of support currently provided may not be available in a new location.
The inherent possibilities in the social protection afforded to citizens of EU Member States has been a key factor in the promotion of genuine freedom of movement.
In the Forest of Dean, which I represent, 40 years ago elvers (glass eels) were fished in abundance by the local population and sold on the streets for consumption as part of a traditional breakfast with bacon and eggs.
Alongside a number of emergency measures that need to be taken immediately, there is also a range of medium- to long-term measures that should also be adopted, in order to ensure that eel stocks are first recovered and then properly managed.
The plan takes account of the need for socio-economic measures to help fishermen, the Community financing of measures – note, with their own budgetary heading – reliable data on the state of fish stocks, and research into other reasons behind the decline in stocks, such as pollution.
It is clearly important to know the precise cause be it pcbs, global warming or fish diseases.
The fishermen of Languedoc-Roussillon, for example in Palavas or Pérols, are worried that they will see their traditional practices, which conserve future stocks, brought into question.
They want to fish for adult eels, not glass eels, the ban on the fishing of which 10 years ago enabled stocks to recover.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have a request to give an oral explanation of vote on the Gargani report.
The judge’s shameless disregard for the law must be condemned as such and we hope that the unanimous resolution by Mr&#160;Gargani and the Committee on Legal Affairs will play a part in this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like – if at all possible – to make an oral statement on the way I voted on the Brejc report.
It is a falsehood that we would be able to transform the social dimension of globalisation while we choose to do nothing about China.
I voted against the Brejc report for the very reasons that some of my colleagues have outlined.
This House does not appear to read its own documents.
The common agricultural policy has been radically reformed, and this morning’s vote basically gives truth to the lie that if we reduced all EU agriculture subsidies the poor in Africa would be better off.
Globalisation is an ongoing process of change that helps bring about freedom and prosperity for ever more people.
Globalisation provides better preconditions for economic growth through free trade, increased international investment and the transfer of knowledge.
The EU is a positive example of globalisation, involving the free movement of goods, services, people and capital.
Nevertheless, the proposal emphasising the need for a social policy agenda geared towards development of cities focused on inclusion and cohesion, implying measures to foster sustainable development and respect for workers rights was adopted in part.
Hence our abstention from the final vote. &#160;&#160; The resolution on ‘the social dimension of globalisation’ contains proposals that, in most cases, would lead to the EU being given more power.
We object to this routine EU centralisation, carried out without proper analysis or justification.
A common EU policy on ‘the social dimension of globalisation’ cannot be drawn up because the EU Member States are so different from one another.
Instead of being forced to carry out a policy imposed from above, the EU countries should instead learn from each other through institutional competition.
In view of the above, we choose to vote against the resolution in the final vote.
One amendment adopted, tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left, urges the Commission and the Council to promote a social policy agenda at European level.
The VVD takes the view that social policy is something that falls within the remit of Member States.
Furthermore, an amendment by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been adopted in which a case is made in favour of the EU promoting socially responsible entrepreneurship.
In the report, he advocates the idea that the EU model has always emphasised the strong social dimension in economic integration, as reflected in the Lisbon Agenda, and that, accordingly, certain aspects of good practice within the European social model should be transposed to other parts of the world.
This applies to citizens of the EU as well as countries and citizens throughout the world.
In free and democratic societies such as ours, in which economic freedom prevails, the conditions are in place for globalisation to become an opportunity for worldwide growth and development; and not just an opportunity but a duty.
We have a responsibility in this House to deal with these issues. &#160;&#160; I believe that Mr Wojciechowski wishes to speak in response to personal comments. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I am absolutely outraged at an incident that occurred in connection with the exhibition.
Such a thing should not be tolerated or permitted in this House.
My family was murdered by the Nazis in my home country, and I object to such comments being made in my direction.
I understand Mrs&#160;Gomes’ point of view, but I must insist that comments of this kind should not be made in Parliament, whether they are directed at myself or at any other Member.
This holds particularly true in situations like the exhibition.
The committees and their members have had an enormous amount of work to do in analysing its details and in drafting amendments to improve it.
I am particularly obliged to Mr Sacconi, who, as rapporteur for the lead committee and as a stalwart defender of improvements to the protection of health and the environment, was open to the possibility of compromise.
I also wish to thank Mr Nassauer, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and an advocate of competitiveness and innovation as goals for policy, who was equally open to reasonable compromise, and Mrs Ek, who drafted the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and was equally active in putting forward the objections of industry, albeit without losing sight of the vital importance of protecting health and the environment.
We will, however, delay as little as possible in stating our position on those amendments that gain a majority at the vote.
The Commission supports Mr Sacconi’s and Mr Nassauer’s proposed compromises on registration and on the exchange of information.
On the subject of the exchange of information, I would like to stress that any such system must offer the maximum possible incentives, although there will be situations in which – for reasons, among others, of cost – it will not be in businesses’ interests to cooperate and in which the exchange of information could be detrimental to their essential interests.
The Commission accepts that such an approach has its merits in terms of more even and more consistent application of the Regulation’s rules, although we must be very cautious as regards the tangible form that this will take.
The fact of the matter is that there is only a limited reserve of expertise, much of which is to be found in the Member States – whether in their competent authorities or in their scientific institutions.
The authorisation procedure is one of the most important aspects of the whole REACH Regulation, if not, indeed, its cornerstone.
On the one hand, we want to find an efficient way of giving businesses an incentive to substitute viable alternatives for substances of very high concern, but, on the other, we do not want to set up a system that puts chemicals producers within the EU at a competitive disadvantage.
We can agree to a procedural step in which the Agency publishes information on its work programme for authorisation, that is to say, relating to its choice of chemicals to be proposed to the Commission as candidates for authorisation within a foreseeable timeframe.
Discussion of substances in products, to which Article 6 relates, has been made difficult, not through its being in any way politically controversial, but because of the objective facts, in that it involves, on the one hand, creating equal competitive conditions for manufacturers and importers of products, and, on the other, countering the problems arising through the import of products the chemical constituents of which do not have to comply with the same conditions as products manufactured from registered chemicals.
It is for this reason that the Commission is in favour of those proposals that are practicable and conform to WTO requirements.
Moving on to the confidentiality of data, a number of amendments have as their objection the enlargement of the list of items of information that should always and in principle be regarded as confidential.
The Commission takes the view that, at the end of the day, its compromise proposal strikes the right balance.
Our aim should be to ensure access to information that is really needed to protect public health and the environment.
In the course of time, the Agency will have an important part to play in terms of communication and also in informing consumers, even though that is not the express objective of the REACH Regulation.
We cannot therefore rule out the possibility of having to make a number of amendments to the text in order to bring REACH’s practical implementation into line with the provisions of the Aarhus Convention.
The Commission’s view of these amendments is founded on a pragmatic approach.
Let me also emphasise to the budgetary authority that giving the Agency additional tasks must, self-evidently, be accompanied by a corresponding increase in its financial resources.
The Commission hopes, then, that the compromise package presented by Mr Sacconi and Mr Nassauer is one to which Parliament will feel able to give its approval.
We believe that this package can help to foster widespread support for a piece of legislation that is among the most problematic, complex and, certainly, most controversial in the history of the European Union.
From the very beginning of the discussion of REACH, the Commission has always seen itself as having the role of helping to find a rational and pragmatic solution that struck the right balance between the demands of the economy and the objectives associated with health and the environment, and we do believe that these compromise proposals achieve it rather – and let me make this perfectly clear – than weakening the Commission’s original proposal.
We believe that this compromise package makes the proposal more workable, more efficient and also more cost-effective; a better way, indeed, of achieving the environmental and health objectives.
I should like to congratulate in particular the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the committee itself and, of course, the rapporteur Mr Sacconi, whose untiring and consistently constructive efforts have made a decisive contribution towards promoting this proposal.
I also thank the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and their rapporteurs, Mr Nassauer and Mrs Ek, for their constructive proposals.
They have all worked together, submitted proposals and reached this compromise which they propose on one of the main elements of the REACH system: registration.
I am particularly satisfied by the fact that the European Parliament and the Council have finalised their positions on the proposal.
The compromise package on the question of registration proposed by Mr Sacconi and Mr Nassauer and countersigned by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe constitutes positive progress on one of the most complex chapters of the REACH dossier.
By focusing the proposal on the substances which have the highest risk level, this compromise improves the functionality of the REACH proposal, especially as regards substances produced or used in small quantities.
Despite the fact that the approach for substances produced or used in small quantities differs from the Commission proposal, it is nonetheless a significant improvement for the protection of health and the environment compared with the current situation.
The Commission supports this package within the framework of efforts to find a compromise.
The compromise package aims in the same direction as the discussions being held in the Council.
Similarly, it has many points in common with the compromise proposal tabled by the British Presidency on 28 October, which was broadly accepted in the Permanent Representatives Committee last Friday.
The Commission fully supports the objective of the British Presidency to achieve political agreement before the end of the year and to make every possible effort in this direction and to make a positive contribution to this objective.
However, we cannot accept a number of other amendments which would create a vacuum in the application of the legislation.
As far as authorisation and substitution are concerned, I see with satisfaction that the Members of Parliament have proposed a large number of valuable amendments which set time limits on authorisation and increase the pressure for substitution, thus strengthening protection of human health and the environment.
We also agree with the setting of a time limit for authorisations, but this limit will be decided on a case-by-case basis by the European Chemicals Agency.
At the same time, we believe that this arrangement, in conjunction with Article 52, as amended by the British Presidency, will have a positive effect on substitution, as there will be pressure on companies to step up their efforts to find substitutes and safer substances.
To close, I should like once again to thank all the members of the European Parliament who have worked so intensively over the past nine months in order to make progress on the REACH proposal.
This legislation offers a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to achieve proper protection for humans and the environment while at the same time being workable and maintaining the competitiveness of European industry.
This objective can only be attained with the cooperation of all Member States, the European Parliament and stakeholders.
We recognise that we are very close to a deal, and we still intend to achieve political agreement before the end of the UK Presidency.
I am heartened by the commitment shown by the European Parliament in having its first reading this week.
We welcome the work done by the rapporteurs to achieve a balanced and workable compromise on the key aspect of REACH, namely registration.
The main elements of this compromise, co-signed by the three main political groups, are very close to the ideas that the Council is working on.
The Presidency’s compromise text aims to represent a balanced consideration of the views expressed by Member States in the discussions to date.
It maintains the objectives of REACH in the field of protecting human health and the environment.
The challenge for us all is to agree a registration package that collects the information necessary to assess the risks.
At the same time it must be proportionate.
The following number among our shared proposals on registration: firstly, having a single pre-registration phase to simplify the procedure; secondly, requiring data sharing through ‘one substance, one registration’.
We have also introduced flexibility by proposing clear criteria for companies to opt out of submitting a joint information package.
Like Parliament, the Council is concerned about the impacts on small firms.
Below ten tonnes, a full data set only needs to be provided on a substance if it meets simple criteria identifying it as high risk.
In order to reduce the burden on industry, and particularly on small firms, the Chemicals Agency will provide tools to facilitate the submission of data.
The compromise text gives the Chemicals Agency, based in Finland, a more central role in this phase of REACH.
A similar approach has been taken in the reports from the parliamentary committees which have given their opinion.
The compromise proposal retains the possibility of a first authorisation based solely on adequate control – that is, you can continue to use a hazardous substance if you can demonstrate that the risks are contained.
Therefore, an amendment has been introduced in our proposal to require all authorisations to be subject to a review.
In addition, substitution has been further encouraged in our proposal by the requirement to provide an analysis of possible alternatives.
If I have not managed to persuade you of the vital importance to all the citizens of Europe of securing an early agreement on REACH, then I have failed.
I hope I have been able to give you an insight into the discussions taking place in Council.
For our part, we will continue working in our role as the Presidency to do all we possibly can to get agreement this year.
It is difficult to summarise this lengthy process in a few minutes, even though this is the longest time limit that I have been given since I became a Member of this Parliament.
I shall therefore devote only a few words to two key concepts: balance and responsibility.
We have not only safeguarded but also reinforced the balance between those two essential factors that are close to all our hearts: namely protection of human health and the environment on the one hand and the maintenance of industrial competitiveness in Europe on the other.
If Parliament endorses on Thursday the positions adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, we shall define an authorisation mechanism for the substitution of the most hazardous substances, very similar to the mechanism that the UK Presidency referred to a short while ago.
I am particularly proud of this.
We have come close to this objective; and meanwhile the positions of various institutions, in particular the two legislative ones, namely the Council and Parliament, have moved very close together.
We are aware that many aspects of European integration are in difficulty at present.
Nevertheless Parliament could today send out a strong, clear message on such an important subject to its citizens, enterprises and trade unions concerning its ability to decide and to reach a compromise that would by definition be as representative as possible of the wishes of all interested parties.
As Lord&#160;Bach and Commissioner&#160;Verheugen said earlier, we now have to seize the opportunity to speed up the decision-making and legislative process on this matter that has engaged so much of our attention.
As Mr Sacconi is in fact the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I would have been glad if what he said had reflected that committee’s attitude.
They are part of our everyday life and basic to much of our modern human activity.
This means that we shall avoid bureaucracy and unnecessary costs but, above all, it means that we shall use our limited resources to bring about the highest possible level of safety.
Decisions in this Chamber often promise more than they can deliver.
That is why we need REACH, but a REACH that manages to deliver what it promises.
For it to do otherwise would be a disservice not only to the world around us but also to European consumers.
I therefore hope that the Chamber will take on board the proposals put forward by the Committee on International Trade for reducing trade barriers.
Instead, the Social Democrats should ask themselves why they are standing aloof from the proposal.
I am very pleased to have been involved and to assume responsibility for voting new, firm European chemicals legislation into existence. &#160;&#160; . – The objectives of reducing chemical damage to the environment and to health, raising awareness of the consequences of the use of chemicals, improving consumer access, gradually eliminating and replacing the least safe chemicals and banning tests on vertebrate animals all touch the lives of the citizens whom we represent in this Chamber.
Parliament must therefore welcome the Commission’s initiative and play a proactive and constructive part in improving on what it is proposing.
That a broader undertaking in this regard has been achieved is down to collective responsibility and, more importantly, to Mr Sacconi’s outstanding report.
Supporting these proposals will lead to a marked improvement in the Commission’s text and will facilitate its implementation.
The core of the text remains intact, namely adopting the principle of responsibility, reducing costs for SMEs, focusing on the most problematic chemicals and the uses thereof, clarifying the Agency’s role, and giving greater precedence to assessing and monitoring the system.
With regard to REACH, just as many other laws, it should be emphasised that Europe cannot continue to make laws on its internal market as though there were no such thing as globalisation.
This will be tantamount to shooting ourselves in the foot and Article 6 does not go far enough in addressing this problem.
This is the only way in which a balanced institutional solution in the short term can be guaranteed.
It was our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that conducted the first of this House’s Hearing’s on REACH; this it did in October 2004, with 200 experts on labour law and health protection, not to mention representatives of the social partners, present.
If there is a batch of core data relating to the actual risk rather than to the quantity of the substance in question, as well as categories for exposure and use, registration with the Chemicals Agency can be accomplished professionally and at no less speed, avoiding not only vast amounts of dead data but also needless red tape, to the benefit of small and medium-sized businesses in particular.
Most of us voted in favour of derogations for substances used in research and development and for the new Agency’s powers to be extended.
A modified REACH will make superfluous two dozen European labour law regulations in the field of health and safety at work alone.
Priority has to be given to the drafting of safety data sheets and their precise use in places of work, thereby obviating accidents resulting from the improper handling of substances. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, chemicals in Europe are regulated by very poor legislation in the case of the 30&#160;000 or so older chemicals and relatively good legislation in the case of the approximately 3&#160;000 new chemicals.
The new proposal replaces 43 directives, as well as national legislation in 25 countries – legislation that varies a very great deal, from quite poor to quite good, in terms of quality and of the way in which its application is monitored.
Swedes wishing, for example, to buy toys for their children will find that, although a few are produced in their own country, most are imported.
For all these reasons, new chemicals legislation means a great opportunity for the environment, people and companies.
The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy was the first committee to take a decision.
The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has responsibility for industry, small enterprises and research and has therefore, in accordance with its remit, concentrated on changes that pave the way for new, modern technologies, innovations and modern environmental technology.
In Europe, environmentally driven industry is growing twice as fast as industry as a whole and is an incredibly important tool for creating jobs and sustainable growth in a knowledge-based economy.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have four major issues in the EU, including the fact that the financial perspective and draft Services Directive are each a mess and that the draft Constitutional Treaty is subject to a ‘period of reflection’.
Following seven years’ discussion, we now in actual fact need a decision on the fourth important proposal, namely that concerning European chemicals legislation.
That is the crucial change over against the law as it was before, and I think it has to be mentioned that it involves considerable costs, for these tests cost money – up to EUR&#160;200 000!
Businesses would in future be required to bear these costs themselves in the interests of the environment and consumer protection, and that means that we have to give some thought to what effect this would have on competitiveness.
It has to be said, though, that this compromise relates only to registration, which is the most important part of REACH, and certainly not to the whole thing.
Europe, with what will soon be a population of 500 million people, constitutes a considerable economic area, and it is right that we should be forerunners in giving this area a single binding legal framework in the field of environmental protection.
The Commission proposal as it stands at present does not take adequate account of this and does not go far enough.
The Women’s Committee endorses, by a large majority, the Commission’s proposal on REACH.
The incidence of breast cancer has doubled in Europe over the last twenty years; one woman out of every nine in Europe suffers from cancer, and this is in many cases attributable to chemicals.
Not only has it endorsed the idea that REACH should be clear, but it has made a particular point of calling for rigorous registration, going on, indeed, to propose that chemicals should be registered from a lower limit of 10&#160;kilograms right up to one tonne.
Lord Bach, a million British women wrote to Parliament concerned about the effect of chemical substances on their bodies and on their lives.
The role played by the Commission, and in particular by the Directorate-General that Commissioner Verheugen heads, has been truly curious.
I would ask you all to support the proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the example set by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which would guarantee that chemicals used in consumer products have been tested.
I think that we must offer guarantees for a workable project that in eleven years’ time will provide society with products that are absolutely safe.
A number of compromises have been struck, and I welcome them.
The Members of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, and possibly those of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament may think that there is a little more room to manoeuvre in those compromises, but nothing could be further from the truth.
Rules have been stepped up in the compromises, so much so that in some respects, they are even stricter than those that were voted on in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
For all of these substances, the substitution principle is a necessity.
The flexibility condemned by some will still involve the responsibility of the European Chemicals Agency, whose powers will be extended.
The language of chemistry is universal, and each chemical formula is unique.
However, whatever the fear merchants may claim, the natural environment in Europe is constantly improving and, each year, the life expectancy of Europeans increases by, on average, three months.
REACH is necessary, if only for the benefit of workers in the sector.
The European chemical industry is the best in the world.
The preservation of a competitive European chemicals sector remains an honourable objective, even though we need to remind the industrial lobbies that cleaner production procedures and non-problematic products would constitute a real competitive advantage on the global market.
Faced with often extreme claims, our rapporteur, with the help of others, has been able to strike a balance between the imperatives of health, the environment and the economy.
Even those who will not vote for the compromises proposed by Mr&#160;Sacconi cannot fail to recognise that Europe is in the process of developing, on the subject of chemistry, the most progressive and most ambitious legislation in the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the background to why we need new chemicals legislation in Europe has been eloquently described.
Credible evaluations of the draft legislation have been undertaken, and these have shown that there are special problems for small enterprises where 1-10 tonne volumes are concerned.
The compromise means that further information is required about approximately 30% of the substances, while simplified registration is enough for the remaining substances.
It is often said that what characterises a good compromise is the fact that everyone is equally dissatisfied with the result.
The ALDE Group also proposes an addition clearly stating that the burden of proof should lie with companies.
One important issue concerns authorisation, that is to say the actual decisions concerning chemicals.
It is important to have a strong substitution principle for hazardous chemicals that can be replaced by less hazardous alternatives.
The proposal contains similar grey areas and odd features which all three of the major political groups have been very much in agreement about removing.
I should like to thank Commissioners Verheugen and Dimas.
For a moment, I was concerned when they came up with this ‘room paper’, but I am very pleased that the Commission has now decided to support the main policy represented by the big three groups in Parliament.
We shall support the compromise proposals on the table. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Sacconi for his work on REACH and for the compromises that, with our help, he has brought about on the subjects of authorisation etc.
As long as four years ago, the European Parliament, through Mrs&#160;Schörling’s report, demanded that REACH be couched in stronger terms.
Stop being so bewitched and vote against Mr&#160;Nassauer and in favour of the alternative compromise.
You will only be given the opportunity to vote in favour of a stronger REACH if you vote against the Nassauer compromise and in favour of the alternative proposal. &#160;&#160; Before I continue, I would like to point out that Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure concerning personal statements enables Members whose names are mentioned in the speeches to request the floor, which would be granted to them at the end of the debate.
We want to see a chemicals policy that makes it compulsory to phase out and ban the most hazardous chemicals of all.
Every serious analysis shows that the benefits of an efficient chemicals policy greatly exceed the often hugely exaggerated costs of chemicals policies in general.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, we arrived at what in the main was a constructive compromise.
It means that we shall not learn about the effects of chemicals.
Our political group will never be able to agree to chemicals policy being weakened in such a way.
Many Members of this Parliament have in practice acted as mouthpieces for the chemical industry’s lobbyists.
This is the most important proposal on environmental issues that we have dealt with for many years in the EU system.
Finally, Sacconi’s apple.
The Commission’s REACH proposal must be improved.
With this approach, we lose the results achieved in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety to some extent.
The burden on small and medium-sized enterprises must be manageable.
Following the vote, another cost and benefit analysis must be carried out in order to map out the effects of the vote on the burden on SMEs.
Volume and risk go hand in hand.
Finally, whilst animal tests must be avoided where possible, progress remains necessary.
Today there are more than 100&#160;000 chemical products on the European market, a large majority of which have never been evaluated with regard to their long-term effects.
More and more scientific research shows that modern-day illnesses such as asthma, allergies, certain types of cancer and work-related illnesses are often the result of chemical products in the environment.
In my own country, Ireland, pharmaceutical industries account for EUR&#160;37.4&#160;billion in exports and account for almost 40&#160;000 jobs directly and indirectly.
We must therefore avoid crippling small and medium-sized European industries with over-stringent obligations and regulations.
We all need chemicals as part of everyday life, but we also need to guarantee their safety.
REACH can provide that guarantee and information, but we must be careful not to destroy these industries as well.
The key to this debate is balance.
It is important to realise that the REACH directive is not only about the conflict between the chemical industry and the environment, but also about the competition between large corporations and small to medium-sized enterprises in the chemical sector.
I do, however, have one serious reservation regarding a kind of discrimination against the ten new Member States.
These states have been party to the discussions on the REACH directive for only one year, as a result of which their level of readiness is lower than that of the EU-15, which have been discussing the issue for three years.
The Slovak Republic supports and recommends the approval of the ‘one substance, one registration’ system because it contributes to reducing overall testing costs and eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy.
There are a number of principles on which certain committees have agreed by large majorities.
The first is that businesses bear responsibility, but must also take precautions.
I shudder at the thought of all the thousands of animal experiments – all of them unnecessary – that would have to be carried out if the proposals from the Greens were to be adopted.
Greater attention needs to be paid to the needs of small and medium-sized businesses.
In the absence of useable data on these chemicals, however, only a tiny proportion of these cancers are recognised as occupational diseases and dealt with as such.
That demonstrates the importance attached to the entry into force of a system of assessment, authorisation and substitution of chemicals.
For my part, I have always advocated the idea that the system adopted should be technically and economically sustainable for business and, to this end, promote consortiums.
In order for REACH to make it truly possible to eliminate harmful substances from the European market, there are two conditions.
No amendment must result in the registration aspect being rendered powerless and, in this regard, derogations from the obligation to provide data must be exceptional and strictly limited, including for substances produced in small quantities.
The burden of proof must lie with the companies.
On the other hand, other members of our group, particularly the French socialists, would have liked a more ambitious compromise.
To conclude, I would like to thank our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Sacconi, for the hard work he has put in. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there have been two early casualties of REACH, the first of which is truth.
I hope it secures a common position before the end of December and I hope that this Parliament votes on Thursday in a way that will bring it close to the Presidency’s position.
There are still Members here who would strip away the testing requirements almost completely: ‘Trust us, they are chemical companies’ is their argument.
There is one matter that has hardly been considered: we are leaving a host of issues here to the new Chemicals Agency, but we have no idea what criteria it will adopt or whether it will be lax or rigorous in its interpretation.
We will have to watch that process like hawks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many in my group have highlighted the enormous weaknesses in the Sacconi-Nassauer compromise in terms of health and the environment and of course I agree with them.
While groups of companies would be permitted to bring forward a single registration, separate registrations would still be allowed, making it much more likely that repeat animal tests will take place.
The compromise, by contrast, only allows data over 15 years old to be shared, again increasing the likelihood that repeat tests would be undertaken.
Many of these were adopted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, a move that has already helped to increase the pressure on the Commission and industry to push for further work on non-animal tests.
However, if we are to seek a better approach we must not let this opportunity to force greater scrutiny of animal tests to pass us by.
A month ago, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety voted by a very large majority for a strong REACH, worthy of its name.
Today, under pressure from the chemical industry lobby – which no&#160;one here can pretend they know nothing about – and certain Member States, led by Germany, we have before us a poor compromise by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, a compromise which, with a gun to Mr Sacconi's head, weakens the proposal by the Committee on the Environment.
With this negative agreement, not only is the protection of public health and the environment not being put first; on the contrary, it is being subjugated to the demands of a poor perception of competitiveness.
We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left do not intend to vote for this poor agreement. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, we believe that the House should reject this draft.
It goes without saying that they have packaged it as a noble attempt to protect health and the environment, yet it will mean bankruptcy for small and medium-sized enterprises, and cannot fail to deprive hundreds of thousands of people of their jobs.
More information and a supposed increase in consumer confidence in products are not worth having if the cost in economic and social terms is so large.
Tests should be performed centrally on the most toxic substances in order to obtain reliable data, and these substances should be withdrawn from the market, in particular if they are carcinogenic or harmful to the reproductive system or other systems.
I think that we ought to try to find a solution that separates the OSOR system from the REACH package, because as things stand, as has been emphasised several times, small and medium-sized enterprises are not protected.
It would furthermore be useful to speak about tonnage in cases where costs become too high.
If REACH passes, even as it stands, with the compromise, any small enterprise with a new idea or a product that might really make this world a better place is likely to find the price of entry into the marketplace impossibly high.
The law of unintended political consequences already says that the effect of REACH will be to export jobs.
Enterprise in this sector will be stifled in the European Union and will emerge in other countries that are not hamstrung by crushing legislation.
That will be the effect and it is the antithesis of what is needed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the day after tomorrow the European Parliament will vote on the REACH Regulation, following two long years of legislative procedure.
From the moment when we got to work until today, all the Members involved have spent vast numbers of hours in order to achieve a result that, with the greatest possible consensus within this House and with the other institutions, adequately protects consumer health and improves the quality of the environment, all without jeopardising the competitiveness of our industry.
I must admit that, at the outset, such a result seemed very difficult to achieve, but I am pleased to note that, a few hours before the vote, the positions of the main political groups are relatively close.
The compromise on registration, signed by the Socialist Group, by our group and by the Liberals, demonstrates that the European Parliament can be a match for the circumstances and take responsible decisions with regard to our citizens and our industry.
Because, at the end of the day, that is what we are talking about: sending a message of confidence to the citizens, demonstrating that their welfare is a priority for the Union’s institutions.
Mr President, many Members here today, representing various political groups, have jointly presented amendments which we believe to be essential in order to ensure that REACH is an example of how European legislation can be coherent, take responsibility for the health of the citizens and promote innovation and competitiveness at the same time.
I believe that these things are present in the compromise, but they are all becoming difficult, and we shall see how our negotiations proceed tomorrow, for we have another day to go before we vote.
The Council Presidency has made suggestions.
I would be happy if these negotiations could bring us, before the end of the year, to a proper compromise both here and in the Council, so that the topic does not end up being shelved.
Germany is the third-greatest chemicals producer in the world – behind the USA and Japan, but ahead of France, China and Italy; within the European Union, it accounts for over 25% of the turnover from chemical products and for one in every four jobs in the chemicals sector.
That is another statistic of which we should take note. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, when we come to vote on REACH, we do so at the end of a debate that has lasted almost two years and was, at its outset, conducted along strongly ideological lines.
I assume that that is what my fellow Members from other countries are doing and would claim that for myself.
In particular, I would like to thank Mr Nassauer and Mr Sacconi for having managed this difficult dossier really well.
That is why we support ‘Objection!’, a European alliance of SMEs, which has taken an active part in the debate and demonstrated in practical terms what REACH will really mean at grass-roots level.
It follows, then, that if we do not succeed, in the course of implementing REACH, in making the information and assessment processes less complex, the existing transposition deficit will become all the greater, and that really is not in the interests of anyone in this House.
In moving over to an approach to registration that focuses more on risk, the compromise proposal accomplishes a necessary paradigm shift, and rightly too, for that is where the crucial weakness is to be found in the Commission’s draft.
The fact is that this would give cause to fear that requiring data without reference to risk would result in substances being lost to the market solely for reasons of cost.
Without REACH, the risk of cancer and the incidence of environmental illnesses will increase.
It is a curious fact that all those Members of the House who have claimed to be acting out of concern for small and medium-sized enterprises have tabled amendments that would make matters worse for these latter. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;As a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, and in particular as a doctor, I should like to voice my support for a hard-hitting version of the new REACH regulation on chemical substances.
A great many of them also still need to be tested in order to ascertain the effect they may have in the future on humans or on the environment.
As rapporteur on the Framework Directive on Health and Safety at Work (89/391/EEC), I believe we must adopt a hard-hitting version of REACH if we are to implement this Directive in practice.
REACH is a cross-border issue affecting both the environment and the internal market.
It is also important for us to make it clear that it is industry, and not the authorities, that must be responsible for evaluating the registered chemicals and assessing the risks they may present.
Taking a lead on this issue will mean a competitive advantage in the long term.
Hence, I shall vote against the compromise proposal devised by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is unacceptable that, in our relatively enlightened times, we permit a huge number of chemical substances in our environment, without having registered them and without being aware of their harmful effects.
We are in a situation in which this Parliament is divided, and the whole complicated proposal constituted by REACH could collapse into nothing.
I belong to a party that would like to have seen action taken on the basis of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety’s position, as it stood before the compromises that have now been entered into.
I am therefore able to support the compromise proposal. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the debate that has been held so far on REACH, both within the House and outside it, has revealed that Europe is not yet ready to adopt this directive in its present hard-hitting form.
We would all like to lead healthier and safer lives in greater harmony with nature, but financial realities and common sense should not be left out of the equation.
Fortunately, the rapporteur has drafted a compromise proposal, which reconciles the interests of small, medium-sized and large enterprises, as well as those of consumers and workers who care about the environment.
Sir Tom Blundell, Chairman of the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution, said that, given our understanding of the way chemicals interact with the environment, you could say we are running a gigantic experiment with humans and other living things as the subject.
Therefore, the key is to get prioritisation, to make the system workable, to protect health, to reduce the number of animal tests and to achieve it all in ten years.
That is why it is so important to support the Sacconi-Nassauer compromise and ensure the passage of this legislation through Parliament, so that we can improve human health and the environment across the world, while at the same time maintaining our own industrial competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, when one is faced with a measure as wide-ranging as this one it is important to establish the right balance between on the one hand the overriding necessity to protect the health of citizens, workers and consumers and on the other hand the need to sustain the importance of the European chemicals industry in the economy and the labour market.
This industry is represented not only by the large enterprises of some countries but also by the small, sometimes very small, and medium-sized enterprises of countries such as my own, Italy.
We have discovered that we were using more than 100&#160;000 chemical compounds without knowing what effects they have.
We have understood that our fellow citizens have been made ill by toxic substances that contribute to our jobs, our comfort and our happiness.
Recent studies have shown that we women, as mothers, are passing a toxic heritage on to our children through the umbilical cord.
It is the future of the human race that is in danger, whatever some of my fellow Members here today may say.
The initial REACH project allowed us to meet this challenge.
All these forces represent negative values that go against the underlying principles of a Europe harmonised in respect of social and environmental issues.
Curiously, this amount is spread very unevenly over the ten years in question with most of it, more than EUR&#160;50&#160;million, concentrated in 2014 and 2015.
I believe that the issue is being dealt with as if the whole policy of chemical products ended with REACH; nevertheless, the policy on chemical products, if it is intended to promote the health and wellbeing of the citizens, must complement other Union policies and other policies of the countries and, therefore, we cannot take the view that everything begins and ends with REACH.
REACH affects industry throughout the whole of Europe; in other words, we are talking about several million jobs.
The only kind of legislation that we can accept is one that creates at least as many new jobs as it might eliminate.
Innovation, research and development are important for the discovery and economically efficient production of better quality substances.
When tabling our proposed amendments, we in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy were guided by a concern for protecting the environment, protecting health and safeguarding jobs.
REACH will be a good regulation if, based on the knowledge and expertise of the chemical industries, it gives rise to new technologies, new substances and new businesses.
We will have succeeded if, on Thursday, we adopt a balanced text that enables businesses to retain their leading position at a global level and that protects the health of people and the environment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to extend my sincere thanks to Mr&#160;Sacconi for his excellent work, even if it may well be the case that our opinions on the issue did not always coincide.
At the same time, I should also like to thank Mrs&#160;Ek and Mr&#160;Nassauer for having drafted key opinions on behalf of other committees consulted.
This report will also have far-reaching implications for health – or at least we hope it will – and for industry.
The new Commission’s work on this dossier has been first-rate, but little information and few explanations were provided when this 1&#160;200-page report was first put before the House.
This meant that a very watered down and bleak version of the debate was presented over the following months by the other parties involved beyond the confines of this House.
I am delighted that we are now well on the way to reconciling REACH’s two priorities, namely consumer protection and industrial policy, since this will ensure that the legislation is genuinely forward-looking and groundbreaking.
I am delighted that we have managed to incorporate the concept of exposure to chemicals into the report, at least up to a limit of 100&#160;tonnes.
This is exactly the approach I believe should be adopted to draw attention to an issue that lies close to my heart, namely the testing of chemicals in tobacco and cigarettes.
I should like to thank the rapporteur and draftsmen once again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to thank Guido Sacconi for the work he has done on such a complicated subject.
I therefore believe that we should implement legislation which, on the one hand, guarantees quality of life and quality of products, but which, at the same time, makes it possible for this chemical industry from which we live and on which pharmaceutical progress depends to continue operating.
I believe it is a question of balance and that Guido Sacconi and the rapporteurs of the different committees have examined the different elements and I believe that next Thursday we will be in a position, here in this Parliament, to vote on a text that has the full support of all sectors of Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in exactly two days’ time, Parliament will have a golden opportunity to reconcile Europeans with Europe by adopting this ambitious REACH directive, which really will protect our health and our environment.
We therefore need an ambitious REACH, which will make it possible to stem the increase in the incidence of cancer and other diseases, as two million doctors in Europe are demanding, and which will also protect the millions of workers exposed every day.
I will conclude, if I may, Mr&#160;President, with a brief, friendly response to Mr&#160;Goebbels: I, as a liberal, do not feel particularly ‘green’ for making this choice, which is neither left-wing nor right-wing, but is a bet on the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the science of chemistry and the chemical compounds produced by this science have helped man in his life to resolve problems; that is a fact, just as it is a fact that today we have thousands of compounds and products which circulate and many of these compounds are dangerous and may cause damage to the environment and to health.
Consequently, the time has come for us to apply a policy in this sector and this policy is expressed in the REACH regulation.
Similarly, this regulation gives us an opportunity to test in practice and to be tested on a series of questions of concern to the Union and its citizens.
I refer to the questions of environmental protection and public health and to the need to adapt to the new circumstances being created with the introduction not only of quantitative but also of qualitative criteria, such as the dangers inherent in chemical compounds.
This regulation must also regulate matters relating to environmental protection and public health while, at the same time, allowing the European chemical industry to adapt during the planned transitional stage.
Basically, therefore, with this regulation we can have a tangible example of application in practice of the model of sustainable development, which supports and is supported by a harmonious combination of the three pillars which are, I would remind you, protection of the environment and public health, economic development, social cohesion and increased employment.
To close, I should emphasise that I have confidence in and I am relying on the codecision procedure in order to bring together all the aspects of this complex issue, so that we can achieve the best possible regulation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should first of all like to express my warm appreciation and thanks to Mr Sacconi who has, I think, done an excellent job.
The REACH proposal means that 30&#160;000 substances must be tested.
A very satisfactory compromise has been put before the House on this issue, and it has gained the support of the three main groups in Parliament.
In this context, and addressing my comments in particular to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I should like to reiterate the point that a compromise backed by such a large parliamentary majority is an entirely normal democratic procedure.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has always championed a workable version of REACH.
At the same time, however, the other key element of REACH, namely the authorisation of chemicals, must not fall prey to a political success story where registration is concerned.
Furthermore, a flexible approach must be taken to the temporary authorisation of chemicals, with due consideration for sector-specific product cycles. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that we are discussing today numbers the protection of human health and the environment among its main objectives.
This being so, we must emphasis the impact that this new regulation will have on small and medium-sized enterprises in the Member States, which more than most other concerns will be overburdened with the new administrative and bureaucratic costs arising from it.
In the light of what I have said, I attach great importance to the application of the principle of OSOR (one substance, one registration) and the possibility of forming consortia of enterprises to enable cost reduction and fewer superfluous experiments; but at the same time I am suspicious about the numerous opting-out possibilities foreseen in the compromise proposal on registration, which seem to me to negate the principle itself.
Secondly, I consider it essential for the implementation of the priorities and objectives that REACH is aiming for that all imported products should be subjected to safety regulations that are equivalent to those in force for products manufactured in the European Union.
In this instance I should have liked the European Union, which in environmental matters is often in the forefront of difficult battles – we need only think about climate change and the Kyoto Protocol – to stand up for these requirements and to negotiate with the World Trade Organisation for an extension of these regulations to all countries that produce chemical substances and articles, insisting on the need to apply the principle of traceability of substances.
Unfortunately, however, I have to say that I take a rather less optimistic view than him of the compromise on registration we have before us.
I should also like to congratulate a large number of Members of this House on their clairvoyant powers, since they have voiced their wholehearted support for a priority list of chemical substances even though there is no way of knowing which chemical substances are hazardous and which are not.
I also find it hard to believe those Members who claim that what matters is the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises.
If that is the case, it is hard to understand why some of the amendments and wordings in the compromise work to the disadvantage of these small and medium-sized enterprises.
The same Members should be able to work out for themselves what savings would in that case be made by the state and by all of us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, just like other speakers, I welcome the fact that we are obtaining stricter legislation in this area.
I hope that as many colleagues as possible, including in my own group, agree with me on this point.
I repeat that I am not satisfied, but the most important thing of all must, for all that, be for us to obtain a policy in this area that we can work with so that, step by step, we can put some order into the chemicals jungle.
They are even in our children’s toys.
Unfortunately, we do not know very much about the effects of these substances.
We do not know what damaging effects they have on our environment.
We do not know what damaging effects they have on our health.
With REACH, we are being given the opportunity to obtain the basic data and to adopt a number of principles, which will be incredibly important.
For me, the most important principle is that of the reverse burden of proof whereby, before industry is given permission to market a substance, we shall in future require it to prove that the substance is safe.
The second and very important principle whose implementation we need to arrange for is the substitution principle.
If there is a substance on the market that is dangerous and another that is not so and is thus a better alternative, it shall be compulsory to exchange the dangerous substance for the less dangerous one.
Finally, I want to say that those who think there is a contradiction between competitiveness and sound, stringent chemicals legislation are mistaken.
On the contrary, it is the chemical industry’s only hope for the future that REACH be worded with just such stringency and that it force the chemical industry to innovate, to invest in research and fully to commit itself to those parameters within which it will have to compete in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we need a strong and effective REACH, a REACH that protects both people’s health and the environment, that reduces the number of experiments on animals, and at the same time safeguards the competitiveness of the chemical industry and increases transparency, strengthening the internal market while at the same time complying with WTO regulations.
REACH will only be a success if our answer is yes.
Common sense and the interests of small and medium enterprises suggest that data-sharing should be mandatory, while of course respecting commercial confidentiality in the strict sense of the term.
I also oppose the attempts that are being made to soften registration, and support the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
I am convinced that this is the only way to ensure that our children and our environment are comprehensively protected.
The key to an effective and viable REACH lies in the ability of those affected to implement it.
This is why I also support the proposal to limit expenditures on REACH to 0.2 per cent of annual income in the case of small and medium enterprises, as this will guarantee that the legislation can be implemented.
There is no sense in exiling the European chemicals industry to other regions of the world, because at the global level this will not solve our problems, indeed quite the contrary.
I did not bring an apple for Mr Sacconi, but I ask him to accept my congratulations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the EU’s Chemicals Regulation (REACH) will ensure above everything else the protection of people’s health and standards of environmental protection that are as excellent as possible.
Amid this difficult situation, Guido Sacconi, rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, has to my mind done an excellent job, and the result obtained in the Committee was an indication of how valuable his work has been.
I wish to thank the country that holds the Presidency, particularly for promising to support tighter regulation than is contained in the Commission’s proposal for compensation for dangerous and harmful substances.
This REACH regulation aims to maintain a strong chemicals industry within the internal market, while providing a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
Downstream users of chemicals, which include the vast majority of SMEs, will benefit significantly from this information.
I support the compromise on registration, together with the amendment to limit the cost for SMEs, and the minimisation of animal testing.
This allows tobacco manufacturers to continue to plead ignorance of any detrimental effects on human health of these additives.
We in the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission cannot renege on our responsibility here.
The second point I should like to make is that no definition is given of the subject of the regulation, or in other words hazardous chemical compounds and their chemical activity in living organisms.
Thirdly, the proposal fails to define hazard classes, for example on the basis of medical criteria.
It should also establish a European Chemicals Agency, which would draw up detailed specifications for chemicals and issue certificates and registrations in line with this interpretation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation we are discussing here is not only complex and far-reaching, but also very ambitious.
Mr Sacconi was right to mention balance and responsibility as being the two key words in this area.
The fact that we have an eye for the impact of competitiveness, for cost effectiveness, for the specific concerns of SMEs, for the innovativeness and competitiveness of our industry and for data protection with legal certainty is not going against REACH but forms an integral part of it.
Let us therefore press for sound consultations from now until Thursday, so that we can reach a voting result that is consistent at all levels and is widely supported, because a widely supported voting result will also culminate in a balanced legal document.
We should therefore capitalise on the European added value and give the Agency the necessary competences to reach a uniform approach without, however, overlooking the Member States’ know-how.
We will have information on all chemicals and we will use them far more sensibly.
Let us accept our responsibility to achieve those goals in an ambitious and realistic manner.
We should move away from that dimension and ensure that we vote wisely on Thursday. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, benefits for public health and the environment, the production of safer products more friendly to man, benefits from the development of new innovative products, protection for the European chemical industry against competitors from third countries, improved transparency, increased consumer confidence in industry, benefits for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main users rather than producers of chemicals, protection for the health of workers in the chemical industry, fewer accidents, an anticipated regulatory system and reasonable implementation cost.
This is REACH, this is Mr Sacconi's REACH of balance and sensitivity, this is the REACH of Parliament which we owe to European citizens.
We know, however, that cancer and allergies have become more common and that many industrial injuries are due to people having been exposed to chemicals in the workplace.
I hope that a majority of us will take the opportunity to fly the flag for European competitiveness but, above all, to put an end to the experiment with people’s health and the environment constituted, in actual fact, by current legislation.
We cannot therefore support the compromise.
Finally, I wish to say a big thank you to Mr&#160;Sacconi who has done some sterling work on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make just three very quick points.
First of all I should like to respond to the criticisms made by various fellow Members including Mrs&#160;Breyer and Mrs&#160;Foglietta, who allege that I have expressed my personal viewpoint and not that of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
To achieve REACH we have had to arrive at a compromise.
Before assessing whether REACH is or is not a strong regulation – we shall have time after the vote to carry out a careful analysis – we urgently need to have a REACH regulation at our disposal; and we know how much deep-seated hostility it has attracted even in recent weeks.
The criteria for opting out have certainly been retouched, but the final ruling on applications for authorisation not to participate in data sharing rests with the Chemicals Agency.
A focus of many speakers has been the needs of small firms in the chemical and related industries.
The Council shares that concern, and in its compromise the Presidency has attempted to put forward a range of measures to help them.
These include ‘one substance, one registration’, the role of the agency in assisting small firms and a number of measures to help them capitalise on their innovation.
A key principle of the REACH approach is to lay the responsibility for demonstrating the safety of chemicals firmly upon the chemical industry.
The reversal of the burden of proof will mark a positive and dramatic improvement on the current regime and is something that Member States and the Council have seen as vitally important.
We have come a long way in understanding both the substances and the concerns of all stakeholders.
The current regime for chemicals is flawed, bureaucratic and slow and, in too many circumstances, it is frankly ineffective.
More than 40&#160;laws, over 100&#160;000 substances and almost 40&#160;years after the EU first started to address chemicals, we still have not got there.
A perfect compromise is an impossibility, and indeed compromise by its very nature means meeting one another halfway.
At the same time, however, it would also be wrong for us not to do everything in our power to achieve the best possible outcome for the health of our fellow citizens and for the environment in which they live.
We are debating a Commission proposal, and the Commission does not believe that the amendments that have been tabled before the House weaken or water down its proposal.
Instead, it believes that the proposal’s real objectives have in fact been strengthened.
Several of the speakers referred to the fact that the chemical industry in Europe is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is a point I should like to make to those Members who have responded to proponents of other views by saying that the compromise before us, or the solution laid out therein, represents a setback for the interests of the large-scale chemical industry in Europe.
We should remain open to improvements, not only during these debates, but also during the implementation phase that will follow them.
On behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that we will not shirk our responsibility, in particular as far as the agency is concerned.
I should like once again to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, and Mrs Ek and Mr Nassauer, for the truly huge effort which they made to bring us to this compromise, which relates to one of the most important aspects of REACH.
The Commission fully supports this compromise and I am certain that equally extensive support will be expressed during the vote on Thursday.
There are of course certain other issues, such as the issue of authorisation and substitution, which are the concern of the European Chemicals Agency, issues on which I am certain that Parliament will decide with the same transparency.
The Commission welcomes the convergence being developed between Parliament and the Presidency and will work to facilitate the achievement of an agreement on REACH, so that REACH becomes law as quickly as possible.
Similarly, the Commission supports the rapporteur's amendments on the time limit on authorisations, but with the precondition that the limit will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the European Chemicals Agency.
As regards chemicals in products, the rapporteur is aiming for a more specific and operational solution which is similar to that sought by the UK Presidency and which the Commission will be able to accept.
Thank you very much for your attention and for taking part in such an important debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the House for the serious debate that has taken place.
I find it intolerable that an exhibition being held on Parliament’s premises should include an image of Mr&#160;Verheugen poisoning a child while Mr&#160;Barroso looks on, and I would call on the Conference of Presidents to remove this poster from Parliament without delay. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Of the total of 52&#160;amendments I tabled, 30 have made it to the final vote, and these amendments have been welcomed by experts in the field.
The end effect of the position advanced by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety would be to prevent us achieving the Lisbon goals, and to weaken the position of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Pressure will grow on the new Member States, which have traditionally imported goods from the countries of the former Soviet Union, to replace these latter with imports from Western Europe, which would mean extra costs.
I would also call for the costs of testing to be met by public funding, as this is the only way to avoid negative repercussions, in particular on small manufacturing firms.
I am in favour of the compromise that was reached within the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
REACH is not a confrontation between left and right; instead, it is a conflict of interests that raises the question of whether a balance can be struck between the economic, social and environmental aspects of the Lisbon Strategy.
The Commission can accept in full all the amendments of the PPE-DE/PSE/ALDE compromise package on registration, including the amendment on OSOR; these are amendments 367 to 413 (inclusive).
The Commission can also accept in full the following amendments: 40, 73, 74, 79, 117, 119, 125, 128, 148, 158, 273, 276, 291, 292, 317 and 324.
The Commission can partially accept amendments 10, 322, 327, 333, 335, 336, 340, 345 and 347.
The Commission can accept in principle amendments 4, 8, 11, 14, 16, 18, 21, 26, 34, 36, 39, 50, 59, 60 61, 62, 63, 64, 67, 68, 72, 76, 78, 81, 83, 87, 97, 101, 102, 104, 105, 107, 108, 115, 116, 120, 121, 123, 124, 126, 139, 140, 145, 146, 147, 149, 159, 171, 172, 175, 176, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188, 190, 191, 193, 202, 203, 204, 205, 207, 208, 209, 211, 213, 215, 217, 220, 221, 235, 236, 248, 249, 259, 265, 270, 277, 278, 286, 293, 297, 299, 300, 301, 302, 306, 308, 310 and 323.
The Commission can accept in principle and in part amendments No. 19, 20, 41, 53, 65, 88, 89, 103, 122, 130, 132, 141, 142, 144, 157, 158, 161, 163, 180, 181, 192, 194, 195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200, 201, 210, 285, 290 and 294.
The Commission cannot accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 37, 38, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 51, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 66, 69, 70, 71, 75, 77, 80, 82, 84, 85, 86, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 98, 99, 100, 106, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 118, 129, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 143, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 156, 160, 162, 164, 166, 167, 168, 169, 170, 173, 174, 177, 178, 179, 182, 189, 206, 212, 214, 216, 218, 219, 222, 223, 224, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 234, 237, 238, 239, 240, 241, 242, 243, 244, 245, 246, 247, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256, 257, 260, 261, 262, 263, 264, 266, 267, 268, 269, 271, 272, 274, 275, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283, 284, 287, 288, 289, 295, 296, 298, 303, 304, 305, 307, 309, 311, 312, 313, 314, 315, 316, 318, 319, 320, 321, 325, 326, 328, 329, 330, 331, 332, 334, 337, 338, 339, 341, 342, 343, 344, 346, 348, 350 and 351.
The Commission reserves its position on two linguistic amendments, namely amendments 127 and 165.
These are amendments 352 to 366 (inclusive) and amendments 414 to 1038.
The Commission position will be made available after the vote on all those amendments which are adopted.
The Commission cannot accept any of the four amendments tabled to the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 67/548/EEC in order to adapt it to Regulation (EC) of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals.
This situation refers to a conception of multilevel intergovernmentalism.
The conceptual approach and operational investigation of the regulatory authorities of the European Union is characterised by pluralism.
Consequently, the challenge consists in establishing clarified and, where possible, uniform terms for the foundation, operation and supervision of this form of European intergovernmentalism, so that the regulatory agencies can become more transparent and cohesive than they are at present.
The excessive increase in the number of regulatory agencies will result, without doubt, in an increase in European regulatory intervention, in the separation and lack of transparency of European policies and, by extension, in difficulties with operational coordination.
The European Parliament considers that the provisions of the draft interinstitutional agreement submitted could constitute a minimum set of common principles and rules for the structure, operation and control of regulatory agencies, so that they can be harmoniously integrated into the framework of fundamental principles which derive from the Treaty system.
I am sure that there is a well-recognised need here in the European Union to rationalise and standardise procedures for setting up and operating the regulatory agencies in the interest of transparency and in order to avoid the duplication of tasks and unnecessary expenditure.
Setting up agencies is now a fashionable response to various challenges in the European Union.
The Council therefore called on the Commission to provide a clear definition of regulatory agencies according to their competences and tasks.
It also considered that a future framework should identify which criteria should be applied when creating regulatory agencies.
In February 2005 the Commission presented a draft Interinstitutional Agreement, an IIA, on the operating framework for the European regulatory agencies.
This contains rules concerning agencies’ tasks, executive responsibilities, legal base, objectives and mandate, seat, structure and operation, evaluation and control.
The Council would like to refer the honourable Members to the declaration on interinstitutional agreements annexed to the Treaty of Nice, which states that interinstitutional agreements ‘may not amend or supplement the provisions of the Treaty’.
The proposals on this legal issue are therefore on the table for consideration by the Council.
The Council is ready to examine a horizontal proposal for agencies which addresses the legal issues that I have raised in my reply. &#160;&#160; . – In the White Paper on European governance, the Commission is proposing that the European regulatory agencies should have a legislative framework.
After all, if there is one example of a political decision-making system crying out for rationalised and coordinated organisation, it is unquestionably the European regulatory agencies.
Europe cannot turn a blind eye to the problem of governance arising from the enlargement and from its ambitions.
Consequently, the regulatory agencies need Europe’s political institutions to take their share of responsibility.
An interinstitutional agreement will enable these agencies to be successful.
They seem to be spread like confetti around the Member States, more to ensure that each Member State has an agency on its territory than with a view to the need and benefits of having a separate EU agency to deal with the matter in question.
The Commission is at least accountable to this Parliament.
Parliament could be involved in the appointment and scrutiny of the board.
We liked the approach that the Commission put forward in its proposal and we will not let go in terms of ensuring that, if agencies are to exist, they must be properly accountable to the elected institutions of the European Union and not go off on a tangent by themselves. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the first European regulatory agencies were set up in the 1990s, in response to developments in EU policy, consecutive enlargements and the European Union’s resulting new technical and scientific needs.
The White Paper on European Governance states that the European regulatory agencies help to implement and apply Community principles effectively, and that the role they play and the checks they carry out are of considerable significance in political and institutional terms.
Nevertheless, there are currently 23&#160;decentralised agencies, compared to 5 in 1995, and this steady rise in numbers is alarming in view of the fact that there is no common procedural framework.
The 2004 annual report of the European Court of Auditors highlights the agencies’ shortcomings with regard to their adherence to budgetary principles, their recruitment of staff and their public procurement procedures.
In view of the fact that these agencies place an ever greater burden on the EU budget, a thorough analysis of the financial impact of each new agency’s activities should be mandatory.
In order to ensure that the EU of 25 Member States functions properly, more transparency and cohesion are needed in order to avoid the establishment of ever more diverse agencies, many of which would duplicate the responsibilities and activities of the relevant Commission services.
In this context, the draft agreement between the Commission, Parliament and the Council, setting out common guidelines and a framework for the establishment of new regulatory agencies, deserves our full support.
It must be said that some of the points made today have not yet been discussed by the Council, but I assure Parliament that they will be.
Let me respond to as many of the points raised as I can.
I can also assure Parliament – in case there is any doubt about it – that the Council will return to this issue when it has fully reflected on the positions of both Parliament and the Commission.
The Council has noted the Commission’s proposal for a legally binding instrument for a horizontal framework for regulatory agencies.
The Council believes that any framework should address key issues in the creation, operation and supervision of regulatory agencies.
We believe agencies have a crucial role to play, but the Council agrees with Parliament that when a decision is taken to create an agency it has to be justified on the basis of an external, cost-benefit assessment, and we hope to work with Parliament in getting a satisfactory solution to this issue. &#160;&#160; .
The Commission feels that an interinstitutional agreement is indisputably the most appropriate form for the legislation.
Indeed, only an interinstitutional agreement will make it possible to involve Parliament in defining a common framework on an equal footing with the Commission and the Council.
The honourable Member is no doubt aware that the Council has been actively considering the issue and that the Commission has produced several staff working papers on the technical aspects at the request of the Council.
From the internal market point of view, the legal setting is not the same for those two types of taxes.
Although aviation fuel is, in principle, exempt from taxes, the Member States may choose to tax fuel for domestic flights.
They may also tax fuel for flights between Member States, provided they agree bilaterally to do so.
The Commission will make full use of its powers to enforce the Treaty against any discriminatory taxes on air travel, as it does for all other taxes.
Nevertheless, the Commission has argued in its staff working papers that there are good reasons to prefer a common approach to ticket levies.
The Commission has also declared that it is willing to work on the technical aspects with the Member States that intend to pursue this option.
Taxes of the kind mentioned in the honourable Member’s question are still rare.
Should the Commission identify a structural problem linked to the taxation of air travel, be it fuel taxes or ticket levies, it could ultimately make use of its right to propose appropriate legislation. &#160;&#160; Mr Mandelson, while you are here, and bearing in mind that you are responsible for the European Union’s external field, I would like to ask you whether you are aware that the countries that would be most harmed by a tax on air tickets, for the benefit of globalisation, would be the countries of the third world, who largely depend on tourism for their progress, tourism being moreover one of their few activities?
Secondly, a tax on air tickets and on aviation fuels would harm States of an island or peninsular nature.
This tax has been thought up entirely from a continental point of view and would in fact genuinely restrict the traffic between the continental areas of the European Union and the regions and countries of an island nature, particularly outlying ones or those furthest from the centre of the European Union.
There are therefore good reasons for thinking that the overall impact on tourism will be moderate.
In answer to your second question about remote and peripheral regions, the increased cost of air travel may have a greater impact on regions that are highly dependent on air transportation.
However, as air ticket taxes are primarily a matter for Member States, those who choose to apply such taxes will have latitude to design their taxes so as to provide correctives to take into account the special circumstances of remote regions and the social needs of their inhabitants.
The proposals that the Commission has examined are those that have emerged from discussions amongst our Member States.
It should be pointed out that although a fuel tax would have an impact on prices, it may in fact contribute to putting air travel on an equal footing with alternative means of transportation, such as road travel, for which taxes are currently paid on fuel, and which are often the only option for the less well-off traveller.
Article&#160;18 of the Eurodac Regulation sets out the procedures for the exercise of the right to information and to access to, correction or erasing of personal data processed by Eurodac.
These rights are granted by EU data protection legislation and they aim to ensure the protection of the right to privacy of the individual.
Indeed, in accordance with Article 18(2) and under the Eurodac Regulation, any person residing in a Member State has the right to obtain in any Member State data relating to her or him that is recorded in the central database and that the Member State transmitted to the Central Unit.
She or he can subsequently ask that Member State to correct data that was factually inaccurate or to erase data that was unlawfully recorded.
Under the system laid down by EU data protection legislation, the Member States’ data protection authorities and the European data protection supervisor are the competent authorities to monitor the lawfulness of personal data-processing activities by Eurodac.
During a recent Eurodac users’ meeting, the Commission reminded Eurodac users of their legal obligations.
At another meeting organised by the European Data Protection Supervisor, the Commission drew the attention of the EDPS and the national supervisory authorities to the high number of special searches noted in the Eurodac Central Unit.
The Commission is following this issue closely since it is important to clarify whether activities carried out by national authorities within the framework of Eurodac comply with our established data protection rules. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Rehn, up to a point.
What you are saying is that the Commission knows no more than national data protection supervisory authorities why these special searches are being made.
In the case of Eurodac, how do we know that these special searches were not unauthorised access by national agencies masquerading as searches on behalf of individuals checking their own data?
The Commission is satisfied with the UN Secretary-General’s recent recommendation and its subsequent endorsement by the Security Council that says talks on Kosovo’s future status should go ahead.
The Commission is also pleased with the appointment of President Martti Ahtisaari on 1&#160;November this year as the UN Secretary General’s special representative or status envoy to lead the talks on the future of Kosovo.
The Commission fully supports the efforts of the international community and of President Ahtisaari to prepare and work out a balanced and sustainable settlement in Kosovo and we shall obviously work closely with President Ahtisaari to achieve this objective.
First of all, we must ensure that the outcome is compatible with the European perspective for Kosovo and covers the whole western Balkans region.
Secondly, we need to empower the local authorities, our future interlocutors and, at the same time, maintain a streamlined international presence as a security guarantee in Kosovo.
Thirdly, and I am sure that the European Parliament agrees with me on this issue in particular, our common goal must be ‘status with standards’.
And finally, economic development is crucial for the future of Kosovo.
I shall soon present a joint paper on the EU’s overall policy on Kosovo with Javier Solana.
Firstly, it is very important to support the European prospects of Kosovo, as the UN ambassador, Mr Eide, says in several paragraphs of his report.
I agree that this was very much underlined in the report by Ambassador Eide on standards in Kosovo.
In my view, the Eide Report is very professional, of very high quality, is very objective and realistic.
It also underlines the need to ensure both standards and status as we make progress in this negotiation process.
I can also ensure that, in the joint paper with Mr&#160;Solana, we outline our objective of a balanced and sustainable settlement. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I could not agree more with the Commissioner when he says that Kosovo must be offered a European perspective.
Even the local authorities agree that a military presence will be needed as soon as it has gained independence.
I would like to ask the Commissioner whether this means that, in the fullness of time, when this independent status has been attained, the KFOR troops will be pulled out and will be replaced by European troops?
Therefore I do not think it wise to take a stand at this point on whether and in which format K-For should continue in Kosovo.
In most countries, however, forest law is based on principles of sustainable development.
Accordingly, improved governance and better implementation of the law will lead to more sustainable forest management.
The partnership agreements to be concluded as part of the FLEGT action plan will also be a means of bringing together the parties concerned in order to address the broader aspects of governance in the forestry sector and, where applicable, to support the implementation of regulatory legislative reforms.
The Commission hopes that these procedures will help to improve the quality and fairness of the law and governance in the partner States.
In turn, I trust you will understand that, despite the importance attached to it, the issue of legality in the FLEGT action plan is not an end in itself but rather a means of working together with the partner States to improve governance in the forestry sector.
It is also true that, even though the EU’s FLEGT action plan places the emphasis on governance and legality, the Union remains determined to encourage sustainable forest management in developing countries.
In the past ten years, the EU has earmarked more than EUR&#160;700&#160;million for sustainable forest management in Asia, Central Africa and South America. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I thank you for your response and some of your observations.
Obviously, cooperation with those partnership countries can be a good thing, but we all know that nothing will prevent possible partnership countries, including China, for example, from importing timber into Europe illegally via third countries anyway.
In itself, this ban would not therefore be sufficient to prevent illegally sourced timber from entering the Union.
Secondly, a ban at European level will not provide a means for dealing with the problem of governance in the producing countries.
It will allow us to focus attention and resources on the countries most affected by this problem without affecting trade with the countries in which the clandestine exploitation of forests does not pose serious problems.
Unfortunately, this work has been slowed down by the delays linked to the confirmation of the active participation of the Member States and by the decision that we have taken to focus the meagre resources on the implementation of the voluntary approach laid out in the action plan.
The assessment is under way and it is being carried out in close cooperation with the Member States, since many of the potential measures fall within national competence.
This included satellite surveillance which makes it possible to monitor very closely both deforestation and reforestation.
It is entirely possible to carry out relatively precise monitoring of the sometimes dramatic and sometimes rather more optimistic development of this situation. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I am sure that Parliament wishes to strengthen your arm in terms of taking further action on the basis of the report which, under the Action Plan, was to be submitted by 2004.
This is more or less the direction in which we should look to go. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, family-run forestry operations in Europe represent a convincing example of sustainable forestry practices that benefit the economy as a whole.
I would ask the Commissioner whether he thinks it would be possible to provide on-the-ground support to the countries we are debating in the form of technical advice, in order to avoid having to react after the event yet again.
As you are aware, the EU takes a serious approach to the challenges related to mobilising the budgetary funds required to reduce poverty by half by 2015.
The EU accordingly set itself a first interim objective in 2002 of increasing development assistance in 2006.
The Union as a whole would like to achieve a level of aid corresponding to 0.39% of GNP for official development assistance.
You are aware that some countries have already decided to operate a levy or to impose a surcharge on air tickets.
The problem is therefore whether to tax the legal arms trade while, unfortunately, the illegal market escapes?
As you know, in a few minutes Mr Rocard is set to ask a question on the creation of a worldwide lottery, an idea to which I am most open.
Alarming news has been reaching us about the credibility of the future ballots, including the lack of transparency of the electoral body, mass fraud during registration on the electoral roll, intimidation aimed at deterring participation at election centres, predominantly in the east of the country, and the exclusion of large swathes of the population, including Congolese expatriates (including over 3 million in the European Union).
Furthermore, in order to prevent any danger of double registration or mass fraud as far as possible –&#160;since the question mentions it&#160;–&#160;the electoral commission, with the endorsement of the international community, opted for voter registration on the basis of biometric data, the immediate issuing of the voter’s card, the daily posting of lists of registered voters in each registration office, the use of indelible ink and the cleaning up of voter lists on the basis of biometric data.
The results of the deduplication&#160;–&#160;to use that very inelegant term&#160;–&#160;for the operational area of Kinshasa have been presented today at the meeting of the technical committee on the electoral process.
Of a total of 2&#160;963&#160;101 voters registered in Kinshasa, 150&#160;000 cases of duplications have been identified.
There are 18&#160;587 cases of technical duplications&#160;–&#160;which is what I was just talking about, handling errors&#160;– 10&#160;490 cases of fraud and 121&#160;000 cases of potential fraud.
With regard to the percentage of fraudulent duplications, it should be borne in mind that, once a duplication has been identified, each case does not involve one person, but at least two.
The figures relating to cases of potential fraud will be made known during next week, as well as the result of the deduplication for Lower Congo.
So everything is going to be cleaned up at central level and there should therefore be an entirely correct general electoral list, with no fraud, so that it will be possible in any event to say that this election, if it takes place, will be conducted on an entirely correct basis in terms of registered voters.
All of those people who were registering and who wanted to register, who were very happy to do so, effectively were being given the opportunity for the first time to enjoy a legal status in relation to their State.
I would like to put a supplementary question about freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
With regard to freedom of the press, Mrs Aubert, I do not know whether you have been following the Congolese press on the ground.
If you like, I can supply you with a number of newspapers, including all the newspapers that appear on a daily basis in Kinshasa and other towns.
So if there is one area in which truly substantial progress has been made, it is the freedom of the press, though there is plenty to say about other issues, in particular governance.
For journalists in Kinshasa and elsewhere, there is complete freedom of expression.
The accusation is entirely unfounded and, therefore, while I am not saying that all of the press is like this, I can tell you that the press can criticise anybody, whether it be the President or anybody else.
So, with regard to freedom of the press in Congo, I believe that it is not a problem.
I have been following the Congo problem for many years, particularly in my other capacity, and I must point out that, over recent years, we have never been so close to having the opportunity to lead that country towards free and democratic elections, and to provide it with a degree of stability.
I am simply saying that we have never been so close to achieving the minimum conditions for restoring stability in Congo.
It is true that I am extremely committed to this issue because I believe that stability in the DRC would undoubtedly be an extremely powerful factor in terms of stability throughout the region.
It has therefore supported proposals putting the European Parliament on an equal footing with the Council in terms of trade policy-making in the Convention on the future of Europe.
Meanwhile, we are keeping the European Parliament fully informed of the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations by regularly taking part in formal and informal meetings of Parliament and transmitting policy documents to Parliament on a par with the Council, as well as consulting Parliament on the main trade policy orientations.
The 133 Committee that is composed of representatives of the governments of the Member States is not a decision-making body, but a consultative body.
As regards transparency vis-à-vis the public in general, the Commission pursues a proactive policy of communication, amongst other things by putting relevant information on its website, through its regular dialogue with civil society and in replying to citizens’ requests for access to documents.
A study on forests has also been carried out and the results published in June 2005.
A second batch of studies is currently being launched on another set of NAMA sectors and will include fisheries.
We signed up to an original Doha mandate, and we then signed up to the framework agreement last summer which invites us to introduce measures that will bring about a substantial improvement in market access in agriculture.
The Commission therefore supports the sustainable development of coastal-zone management in Asia via the transfer of best practices and environmental solutions from Europe to Asia.
The Commission’s EuropeAid Cooperation Office has so far committed funding for three projects dealing with rehabilitation of mangrove forests in tsunami-affected areas of Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Thailand through the Asia Pro Eco post-tsunami programme.
The Commission has acted promptly by initiating two anti-dumping investigations.
The second concerns imports of footwear with leather uppers from China and Vietnam.
The aim of those investigations is to establish whether the imports in question are dumped and have had a negative impact on the economic situation of the Community footwear industry.
The Commission is now analysing the question of market economy treatment of the exporters concerned, the definition of the different categories and models of the products involved, the question of whether there is dumping, the impact of these imports on the Community’s shoe-producing industry and the position of traders, retailers and consumers.
Those former producers also provide a considerable amount of jobs through these other economic activities.
It will clearly not be easy to find a balanced and equitable solution in this very complex situation and, frankly, the Commission will need a fair amount of ingenuity and flexibility in order to lead this case to a solution acceptable for the Member States and the economic operators.
The Commission has not yet assembled any results on China. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I also wish to thank Mr&#160;Mandelson for advocating free trade and speaking up for those industries that benefit from free trade.
The Commission communication of 31&#160;March&#160;2005 on restructuring and employment provided the social partners with an opportunity to make their views on this matter known to the Commission.
Furthermore, in its communication of 5 October on industrial policy, the Commission referred to certain industrial sectors in which structural changes may take place over the next few years.
It follows that we must be able to anticipate these changes and to facilitate them at regional, national and European level.
The tertiary sector may also be affected by restructuring, and detailed studies of this issue are needed.
The commitments the European Union has entered into and the treaties it has concluded on a bilateral and international basis have an impact on certain key aspects of restructuring, such as the extent to which markets are opened up, access to markets, technological innovation and technology sharing, and the social clauses in this type of treaty.
The Commission has certain instruments at its disposal to promote the sustainable development of the regions, including and in particular the European Employment Strategy, the European Social Fund in the case of investment in human capital and the European Regional Development Fund in the case of investment in infrastructure, productive investment and the development of endogenous potential.
This will enable Member States to make use of the Funds to better manage economic and social restructuring and to better deal with the consequences of global market opening.
As far as the education of future generations is concerned, the European education programmes Erasmus, Socrates and Leonardo enable thousands of young people to study abroad.
In addition, the framework programmes for EU-funded research make it possible to fund key projects at EU level, particularly in the fields of employment, education, vocational training and innovation, and these projects will pave the way for further measures. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for his fairly elucidating reply.
I specifically wished to ask if you have planned where the financing for this planned fund to strengthen restructurings is to come from and if provision has been made to publicise all these auxiliary measures in order to strengthen the confidence of Europeans in developments and prevent them from becoming discouraged in the face of the phenomenon of globalisation. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;It is of course the case that the funds currently at the Commission’s disposal mean that it can already respond to certain unexpected changes.
The recent changes at Electrolux are an example of interrelated problems caused by major system restructuring, involving more than one country.
Its aim would not be to protect non-competitive businesses, but to make it possible for people negatively affected by restructuring to find a new livelihood.
It will also support the development of systems and instruments that make it easier to forecast social and economic change, encourage greater flexibility of workers and businesses affected by restructuring, and boost the administrative capacities and productivity of all stakeholders, for example by training managers involved in change.
One way of looking at these multiple transition periods, or intervals at which checks can be carried out in order to decide whether there is any point in extending them, is to view them as motivated by a desire both to sign the treaties of accession and to put an end to the transition periods, since the latter would make it impossible to achieve full freedom of movement for workers within as short a period of time as possible.
The Commission’s current obligation is to submit a report evaluating the impact of the transition periods in their first two years.
Our aim is to draft a report which is credible and absolutely reliable in terms of methodology, and which takes all the surrounding circumstances into account, including the fact that some countries share borders with new Member States.
It is in our interest, not to say our supreme interest, to give due consideration to all the relevant circumstances surrounding this sensitive issue, including the geographical location of individual countries. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to extend my sincere thanks to the Commissioner for his comments, and for his assurance that the report will be balanced.
We all agree that freedom of movement is our goal, and we too uphold this fundamental principle of the European Union.
To repeat my question, therefore, why have you already taken your decision on this matter? &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;In a sense I have already answered this question in my previous response, but I believe that it is of such significance that it merits a more detailed answer.
It is my firm belief that the free movement of workers is one of the major driving forces behind the European Union’s economic growth, by which I also mean job creation.
Individual countries will naturally take their own decisions in line with the treaty, and they will be able to decide what is right for them on the basis of the facts.
It is by no means the Commission’s intention to break up or bring about the destruction of the labour market in any country.
The aim of the treaties of accession, however, is to create a common market and to achieve the free movement of workers within this common market, since this is one of the four key values which are upheld in the European Union and which underpin the concept of European integration.
It goes without saying that the responsibility for taking the decision lies with the governments. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, thank you for restating your commitment to the principle of the free movement of workers.
It remains in Europe’s and our citizens’ fundamental interest to continue a carefully managed accession process.
It is also up to the Member States in particular to make the case for and defend the policies they have agreed unanimously.
The progress reports analyse where the countries stand, and the accession partnerships set both short-term and medium-term goals to address the problems identified.
In Turkey, bold and significant reforms that enhance the rule of law and human rights have now entered into force, but at the same time their implementation remains uneven.
The report underlines that Turkey must make further serious efforts in freedom of expression, women’s rights, religious freedoms, trade union rights, cultural rights and the fight against torture and ill-treatment, where a zero-tolerance policy must be applied in practice.
Croatia is doing well in transposing EU legislation, but it still needs to make important efforts to reform the judicial system, to fight corruption, to improve the situation of minorities and to facilitate refugees’ return, as well as to strengthen the administrative structures for the enforcement of the .
For these reasons, the Commission can recommend the status of candidate country for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; however, the country is not ready to start accession negotiations yet.
As regards Albania, Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the time has come to anchor our relationship more strongly by negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement with each of these countries.
The Commission fully supports the efforts of the UN Status Envoy, President&#160;Ahtisaari, to prepare a balanced and sustainable settlement in Kosovo, and we shall of course work closely with him.
Each and every country in the Western Balkans is taking a step forward towards the European Union this autumn.
Thus we send a clear message that the EU remains committed to their mid- or long-term perspective of EU membership, once each and every country meets our strict conditions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commission for its attention to detail, and for its committed efforts to push the process forward.
The prospect of EU membership is an important tool that enables countries to push through internal reforms that would in the majority of cases be otherwise impossible, in all likelihood for domestic political reasons.
The question we must ask ourselves is whether we want to restore the balance between deepening and widening, to reaffirm our plans to ensure that the enlarged European Union is able to act and to focus once again on the issue of political unity, or to allow the EU to wither away to nothing but a free trade area.
It goes without saying that a report of this kind cannot give detailed answers to the latter question, because it relates to an ongoing process.
Thought should also be given to whether it would not be a good idea to find an alternative to full membership and the neighbourhood policy, at least on a short-term basis.
This would allow countries the prospect of EU membership in order to focus their development efforts, but at the same time avoid any negative impact on the EU’s capacity for development.
This alternative could resemble the European Economic Area of previous decades.
In fact, it is one of the political priorities of my group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
Accordingly, we have drafted a position on the European future of the Western Balkans that has been recorded in an extended strategy paper, which has now been published.
We need to attain sustainable peace, stability and prosperity in the Balkans within a process of integration in the European Union and with the prospect of ultimately joining, of course.
Consequently, the mutual cooperation between the countries of the Western Balkans is an essential component of our strategy.
Regional politicians will need to shoulder their responsibility when it comes to deciding on the state structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the relationship between Serbia and a probably independent Montenegro and on the status of Kosovo.
Bosnia has made a breakthrough in the reform of its police apparatchik, which was an important concession from the Serb part of that country.
The fact that the Commission wants to give Macedonia (FYROM) the status of candidate country is indicative of the steady progress that country has made.
At the same time, it is appropriate that no date has been set for commencing accession negotiations, since neither Macedonia nor the European Union is ready for this at present.
The European Union expects two things from the countries of the Western Balkans: that they should close the tragic chapter of their recent history, and that they should hand over war criminals – Ante Gotovina, Mladic and Karadzic alike – to the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague.
The true measure of the Western Balkans’ capacity for integration is whether they are capable of cooperating with one another.
Many people have the impression that the majority of the people of the European Union are opposed to it, and many politicians are only too pleased to hide behind those sceptical citizens.
I am also pleased, though, that the Commission has drawn certain pertinent conclusions from the process we have known to date.
If the Commission remains committed to enlargement of that kind – namely one that is based on facts, not on promises, not on automatisms, enlargement based on political vision and analysis rather than opinion polls – then my group, too, will back it wholeheartedly. &#160;&#160; .
As I emphasised in my written question of 26 October 2005, discrimination continues in Croatia against Italian citizens in access to the property market – access that is guaranteed to other Union states.
We are not opposed to Croatia becoming a member of the Union, but only on condition that it respects the rules accepted throughout the West concerning real estate and that it finally settles the lengthy litigation with Giulian-Dalmatian exiles who are still awaiting justice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am echoing the view of many when I say that enlargement has been one of Europe’s success stories, both for the new countries and the old Union.
At the same time, we have to realise that an imbalance has, to some extent, been created between the deepening and widening processes.
The deepening process should have been accomplished at Nice, but was not, while there was widening at a later date.
As far as Romania and Bulgaria are concerned, I truly hope that they will be able to join in 2007, but it will depend on the progress they make in the next six months.
We give the Commission our backing in this, and I think that the way forward is with prudence concerning the admission of new candidate countries at the moment.
As rapporteur on Croatia, I am delighted that we are opening negotiations with that country.
I should like in particular to add law enforcement to this list, since it is still a source of enormous problems in certain regions of Croatia, where jurisdiction and administration are not really up to today’s standards.
As I see it, the compromise reached by the various ethnic groups in Macedonia can rightly be considered a success, in particular with regard to the implementation of the Ohrid Agreement.
Moving on to Kosovo, I believe that the line taken by the Commissioner in his report is of absolutely critical importance, and I would ask him to continue to take this line.
It is plain to see that this report is inspired by sympathy for the country, yet at the same time it voices criticism of the intolerable circumstances that continue to prevail there, both in political and economic terms and with regard to minorities.
This also applies to the majority in Kosovo, for whom we have fought so hard over the past years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Rehn is right that a carefully managed enlargement process is one of the EU’s most powerful and successful policy tools.
EU considerations of internal security are important, but they must not be so overwhelming as to compromise wider regional security.
Let us not make the criminal minority hold the rest to ransom. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to congratulate you on the conclusions you have drawn from the progress reports on the Western Balkan states.
These conclusions reflect Parliament’s own position, which means that you are helping to ensure that Europe demonstrates reliability and continuity in standing by its previous decisions.
As I see it, this is all the more important at a time such as this, when debates unfortunately focus all too often on the crisis in Europe, and the limits to its capacity to absorb new members.
Secondly, we supported the European orientation of Turkey, with the prospect of its complying with international law and the .
However, it is the right of the European Union, of all its political and institutional agencies and of its Member States to control the course of their integration.
The conclusion of the report also places recurring emphasis on the requirement for individual countries seeking membership in the European Union to meet all the conditions.
I think that this requirement is both legitimate and just as it puts all the countries seeking accession to the European Union in an equal position.
I am, however, like many of my colleagues, convinced that the European Union itself must meet the conditions for further enlargement.
Finally, as we happen to have the Commissioner with us today, I would like to ask him a question with regard to Kosovo, to which he has devoted particular attention.
I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is familiar with this initiative and if he would like to make any comments on it. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, EU enlargement is a challenge that involves risks, but that is also worthy of our efforts.
The EU has decided to undergo enlargement to include another two countries, Croatia and Turkey.
Various objections have been voiced, mainly with regard to the latter, and it will be a long time before EU citizens, rather than the Commission or Parliament, come round to the idea of its accession to the EU.
A nation may well need to be given more assistance in forming subjective beliefs of this kind than in developing its economy or administration.
The second issue to which I should like to alert the Commission is Parliament’s role in formulating a pre-accession aid strategy and in monitoring the application of this strategy and the development of internal social, political and religious processes.
The final borders of the European Union have not yet been determined, and we must work together towards this goal. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the strategy of enlargement and integration into the European institutions is the only credible and effective proposal of the European Union, the only strong incentive which can mobilise the processes of change and reform.
Today, what we see in relations between the European Union and the candidate countries is a mutual distrust which has negative repercussions on public opinion in Europe.
At the same time, we cannot guarantee future integration if there is no sign of constant progress in the application of reforms.
The European Commission, with its proposals to strengthen the European strategy of the Balkans, truly is moving in the right direction, reconfirming the strategy adopted by the European Council in Thessaloniki in 2003.
Support for the European prospects of the Western Balkans, with the objective of their future integration into the European institutions, constitutes an investment in security for the European Union itself.
The possible secession of Montenegro must not have a negative impact on negotiations with Serbia.
The European Union and the European Commission must have a high profile in negotiations on the final status of Kosovo, in accordance with the principles of international law.
However, the European Commission must show a particular interest in the minority rights of Serbs in Kosovo.
As far as the outstanding issue of the name is concerned, I would like to say that it takes two to tango and, unfortunately, the leadership in Skopje is encaged in an impasse from the past. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, in principle the Commission’s proposals are a welcome development, and its enlargement strategy for the Western Balkans is exactly right.
This is enormously important for the future development of this region, since in the long term it is the only thing that will bring peace to this part of Europe, which has had such a difficult past.
At the same time, however, the European People’s Party (European Democrats) would urge the Commission to assess the fitness of each candidate country in the Western Balkans to join the EU on an individual and point-by-point basis before binding dates are set for the opening of accession negotiations, and before timetables are drawn up for accession.
The Commission must not make the same mistake with the countries known as the Western Balkan states that it did in the case of Romania and Bulgaria, and particularly in the case of Turkey, when it named a date prematurely, before the criteria had been met in full.
The Commission is right to maintain that Croatia and Macedonia have made the most progress, and have therefore already been recognised as candidate countries, or soon will be, as in the case of Macedonia.
This should also act as an incentive for neighbouring countries that are lagging behind on the road towards EU membership for many different reasons.
Finally, the status of Kosovo must be determined without delay, by means of an agreement between Belgrade and Pristina mediated by the international community.
The Western Balkans and our enlargement strategy for this region are a litmus test for our European policies. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the thoughts that Commissioner&#160;Rehn has put to this Parliament concerning the countries in the area of the Stabilisation and Association Process.
I believe in fact that Croatia ought to demonstrate more consistency concerning the various problems that have been identified in relation to free access to the property market.
We call upon the countries wishing to join the Union to demonstrate this consistency, not only as regards full cooperation with the International Criminal Court, as the Commissioner has mentioned, but also by meeting all those preconditions that must be common to all countries that believe in the free market and democratic liberty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is probable that another three new Member States – Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria – will join the EU before the decade is out.
Romania and Bulgaria still have a great deal of catching up to do in terms of justice and minority issues, with the latter above all a priority for Romania.
Our task in spring will be to decide on a final date for accession, and we will take a critical but objective and open approach to this task.
Our aim is to offer this country a privileged partnership, but even then it would still need to meet the criteria.
It goes without saying that all these problems can only be resolved in a wider European context.
Since I believe that the latter should be the case, I should like to make it clear that I have always been in favour of enlargement, and continue to be today.
Yet we need a clearly defined period of consolidation, as well as a clear idea of the future institutional basis for this European Union of ours and of its future borders.
I should like to speak on two or three main issues.
Mr Brok, Mr Eurlings and others called for a balance to be struck between deepening and widening.
It is the Commission’s policy to take care of both deepening and widening; both are important political objectives of the European Union.
That is one reason why we have underlined the need to take into account the Union’s own capacity to absorb new members, so that any future enlargement will not weaken but strengthen the Union and will not make our decision-making weaker but stronger in the face of the major challenges that we are currently facing.
At the same time, the Union has widened: our membership has more than doubled from 12 to 25.
In the near future, the continuation of constitutional reform is essential for the European Union, in my view, in order to make our decision-making more effective and efficient, to enhance democracy and openness, and to reinforce our common security and defence policy.
Therefore, for the sake of Europe, we have to be able to solve our problems related to the financial perspectives or to our institutional questions long before the Western Balkans or Turkey join the European Union.
My second point concerns Kosovo.
We work closely with the international community and its Status Envoy, President Ahtisaari, in order to make sure that whatever the precise outcome of the status talks, it will be compatible with the European perspective on Kosovo and the Western Balkans.
Take Bosnia-Herzegovina, for instance: there, the policy formed is very much a consequence of the conditions we set for that country in order to conclude a stabilisation and association agreement.
Likewise for Serbia and Montenegro: the significant progress made in relation to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has been the result of our conditions for starting negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement.
We have to strike a careful balance between conditionality and rewarding progress as regards our candidate countries.
The Austrian Presidency is planning to hold a high-level event during its period in office in order to take stock and decide on the next moves as regards how to enhance political cooperation, economic development and citizens’ issues – such as visa facilitation – so that we can make the European perspective as concrete and tangible as possible for the citizens and the countries of the Western Balkans region.
Under strong pressure from the US, the Union is about to speed up dramatically its enlargement towards the Balkans: after Kosovo and Serbia, it will immediately spread to Bosnia and naturally Macedonia.
I should like to thank Parliament and in particular your rapporteur, Mrs&#160;De&#160;Veyrac, who worked in exemplary fashion with the Commission and the Council to facilitate the quick adoption of ambitious arrangements.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism, in particular, has helped us to set up an operational instrument to impose Community-level bans and restrictions on any airline deemed dangerous.
These measures can be imposed without discrimination on any carrier, regardless of whether it is European or from a third country, of whether its flights are scheduled or otherwise, charters for example, or of whether it is a traditional or low-cost airline.
The Onur Air case brought home the fact that Europe’s citizens could not possibly think that this was not the case.
These advances in safety should be accompanied by greater transparency.
The publication of the list of airlines on which bans have been imposed will offer a number of advantages.
It will also offer more rights to passengers purchasing package tours including a flight operated by a blacklisted airline.
This text forms part of a range of coordinated measures aimed at improving air safety.
Firstly, this afternoon the Commission adopted a proposal aimed at extending the common rules on air safety to cover air operations, pilot licensing and third-country aircraft, and the Commission has extended the remit of the European Air Safety Agency (EASA) to give it decision-making powers in these areas.
The EASA will soon be involved in coordinating inspection activities for these aircraft.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;De Veyrac, and Members of the European Parliament, in particular those in its Committee on Transport and Tourism, for the hard work they have put into this important proposal.
The Council attaches the highest priority to aviation safety.
You proposed amendments aimed at strengthening the scope for Community-wide action on the safety of airlines.
Although the Council had agreed a general approach in April on the principle of information sharing, ministers expressed support for this new objective at the Transport Council on 6&#160;October.
The expertise and experience in dealing with the safety of air carriers currently exists in the Member States and it is important to draw on this expertise so that it can be applied fully for the safety of our citizens.
The process of banning air carriers and publishing this information is important, but we should not lose sight of the extra rights to be given to consumers.
The Council agrees that passengers should be given information about the identity of carriers they may book to fly with and that they be kept up to date on the changes in the carriers once bookings are made.
It is a measure of the importance that we all attach to those objectives that Parliament, Council and the Commission have worked so constructively together to prepare the text.
I shall not give any examples, but we often discuss matters that interest almost nobody in the middle of the day but, when it comes to texts that concern many of our fellow citizens, such as the one we are looking at this evening, or the rail package – and I can see that Mr&#160;Jarzembowski and Mr&#160;Savary are here –&#160;we discuss them practically in secret late at night.
That is what I wanted to say, though it in no way detracts from our pleasure at having reached an agreement on this text.
I would like first of all to thank the shadow rapporteurs and Parliament’s services, as well as the services of the European Commission and the Council, for their fruitful and – why not say it – friendly cooperation.
We have all worked quickly and efficiently in order to reach an agreement at first reading and thus send a positive message to our fellow citizens.
As you have reminded us, the tragic events of last summer had increased the onus on us to adopt new measures to enhance air passenger safety and information.
At the same time, we need to be realistic and bear in mind that there is no such thing as zero risk and that the dramatic increase in air transport over the coming years could lead to a rise in the number of air accidents.
Thanks to the impetus provided by Parliament, we are on the point of creating a single Community blacklist, drawn up on the basis of common criteria and applicable throughout Union territory.
That will guarantee our fellow citizens the same level of safety, whichever Community airport they use and – why not say it –&#160;this text is a great victory for the European Union.
This could involve any company with the right to fly in the Union, as well as those which do not have that right but whose aircraft may be chartered in the European Union.
And all of the airlines included on this Community list will be banned from flying throughout Community territory.
This Community list will be updated at the request of a Member State or of the Commission, whenever that becomes necessary.
Finally, passengers will have the right to reimbursement or rerouting in cases in which their carrier is placed on the list after reservation or in the event that it is replaced by a prohibited carrier.
And that information must also be provided to passengers in the event of a change of air carrier.
Finally, the Regulation leaves it to the Member States to impose sanctions in the event that the passenger information obligation is not met.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the European Aviation Safety Agency, since I believe that this regulation forms part of a global strategy for improving air safety in Europe.
The next stage of this process will therefore be to extend the competences of the EASA, in particular with regard to the certification of third-country aircraft, and I am truly delighted, Commissioner, that you have presented this proposal today.
For the moment, the regulation that we are discussing this evening will provide the citizens with the European blacklist from the beginning of&#160;2006 and I am pleased with this result.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think we can all agree that the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;De Veyrac, deserves our congratulations for having achieved such a splendid outcome, and having helped the Council and Parliament to find a common solution to these problems within such a short space of time.
As I see it, she has provided us with an excellent example of the way in which Parliament, the Commission and the Council can act promptly in similar situations, where there are indications that the safety of passengers is at risk.
I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council can give us his word that the Council will reach a final agreement in December at the latest, so that this regulation can enter into force at the beginning of next year.
The passenger must be informed of this fact, and he must have a chance to act in response.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we disagree on the matter of extending the powers of the European Aviation Safety Agency, but this difference of opinion can wait until the Commission communication is on the agenda.
You have demonstrated in this case how real commitment can lead to agreement, and we expect that in the case of this dossier, which is vital for air safety, it will be possible to reach agreement at first reading – a very welcome outcome indeed.
This is all the more remarkable given that this result has been achieved in a very short period, just three months.
We have not only managed to reach agreement on this here in this House, but also, and this is the most remarkable thing, agreement has also been reached between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which is very rarely possible in such a short time.
With regard to its content, this report deals with and improves upon some very important provisions regarding increased safety in the air transport sector, and goes well beyond the Commission proposal.
The key points needed to ensure greater safety for Europe’s air passengers are a single common list based on harmonised criteria combined with a flight ban for the airlines on that list, and of course comprehensive passenger information.
The possibility of integrating airlines from third countries is also very important.
We have shown that by means of a European law we can effectively safeguard the interests of the public.
Whilst the proposal relating to this was well intended, this House’s Committee on Transport and Tourism quite rightly regarded it as too weak.
In this light, this proposal is typically an area in which the EU can demonstrate its added value, for let us be honest: the fact that, to take an example quoted earlier, Onur Air was at one point grounded in the Netherlands, only to be able to take off in Belgium, does, of course, remain absurd.
The many amendments demonstrate this House’s ambitious approach to improving air safety.
When the proposal was discussed in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I repeatedly called for new rules for a black list being linked to the existing SAFA (Safety Assessment of Foreign Aircraft) Directive, and to expand the competences of EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency.
A sector such as this one becomes particularly vulnerable if it is in the hands of the free market, where constantly new low-cost airlines try to attract the maximum number of passengers in cut-throat competition by keeping the operational costs and fares down.
Enterprises that skimp on safety measures can proportionately cause many accidents.
If subsequently, a Member State wanted to take measures promptly, it was at the risk of being hindered by the Union that had not reached the same level.
Their aim is improved passenger safety, more transparent information on carriers and standard conditions for carrier companies from outside the Community.
I believe that if we adopt it as it stands, we will improve the quality of services and make it easier for passengers to choose the right carrier.
I would therefore call on the House to vote in favour of this report, for the sake of all air transport passengers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased with the report by Mrs&#160;de&#160;Veyrac, which has the great merit of clearly proposing the principle of adopting a blacklist of unsafe, even dangerous, airlines.
It is essential to the safety of all air passengers that they be aware of the identity of the airline carrying them and, furthermore, to know whether or not that airline is considered to be dangerous.
Nevertheless, is there provision for measures to control this Agency and means for appealing against its decisions?
We must legislate, of course, and quickly, but we must take care not to remove any of the Member States’ room for manoeuvre in such a crucial area as the safety of their citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Barrot and particularly also Mr Darling – for at this late hour, the chair of the Council Presidency is invariably empty, and I very much appreciate the presence of the Council Presidency in this debate – it is good thing that we have managed to agree on a single European black list containing all airline companies that are banned across Europe.
The recent, tragic air accidents this summer have underlined the need for this legislation.
I have made an all-out attempt to clearly define the right of passengers to compensation in this regulation, because without this right, this legislation will not amount to anything.
I hope that this regulation will contribute to safety in the aviation industry and to improving the position of passengers in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, flying is safe in Europe, and we want it to remain that way in future, despite high growth rates in air traffic.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
A European black list based on common criteria will in future eliminate confusion around decisions on safety issues, as was the case with Onur Air.
I am sure that publishing this list will put very strong pressure on airlines that show insufficient regard to international safety regulations, and also to travel companies that have worked with such airlines in the past.
The duty to provide passengers with information on the identity of the operating air carrier in cases where these has not happened in the past will lead to a marked strengthening of passengers’ rights.
We can address small travel agencies’ fears that they will be overburdened by having to provide information by distinguishing between information relevant to safety and information on a change to another, safe airline, and by treating these two different types of information with differing levels of urgency.
I welcome Commissioner Barrot’s plans to extend EASA’s powers to support for third-country airlines with safety problems.
Air travel forms such a large part of our interconnected Europe and our interconnected world that it is amazing, in many ways, that we have not passed proposals such as this before now.
The Member States acting alone have not achieved a sufficient degree of consumer protection.
I hope that the House and our colleagues, when they arrive tomorrow, will unite around her. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, better lawmaking does not necessarily mean fewer laws.
On 14&#160;August, 121 people died when their aeroplane crashed near Athens.
This was sadly just one of six air accidents that took place this summer, from Greece to Venezuela, which claimed the lives of 500 people and gave rise to a feeling among passengers that they were not safe.
Against this backdrop, it is entirely right that Parliament should hold this debate and adopt more rigorous and more detailed regulations on air transport safety.
The fact that air accidents are, fortunately, rare in Europe does not allay our concerns about flights operated by third-country carriers wishing to use our airports, or carriers taking EU citizens outside European airspace.
Some Member States should indeed retain their powers, especially when it comes to emergencies, yet a carrier banned by four European countries was able to redirect its flights to another in which the ban was not in place, and this must not be allowed to happen.
As this is our concern with this report – and I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur – we support the range of amendments to which all groups put their name, and which we hope will be adopted in Parliament and subsequently in the Council. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like warmly to congratulate the rapporteur on her tireless work and its magnificent result.
I believe that this text is a perfect example of interinstitutional cooperation.
We must also congratulate the Commission – the Commissioner has taken a special and personal interest in this text and I believe that that has also brought results – Parliament, of course, and also the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the Council as a whole.
I therefore believe that this example of interinstitutional cooperation has allowed us, in record time, to achieve a text that guarantees rapid and efficient operation and guarantees viability.
Furthermore, we have achieved a text that strengthens the Community method, while also providing sufficient subsidiary flexibility, so that the most urgent cases can be dealt with while taking the citizens closely into account, but within a rigorous framework of Community guarantees.
This text achieves a perfect balance between the commercial interests and rights of companies and guarantees of their protection, without prejudice to passengers’ right to information in good time, full transparency and the defence of their right to safety, and it also promotes the use of the Internet as a positive element.
I believe that the fact that there have been so many victims this summer has taught us a lesson. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, as a new person from a new Member State, I should perhaps first express my great appreciation to the rapporteur and the Community institutions, the Council and the Commission, for the work they have done and the way they have done it.
It perhaps also sends a positive message to the citizens of the European Union that we are capable of responding quickly and achieving significant results.
I congratulate the rapporteur and the three institutions for having managed to identify the appropriate levels in line with the principle of subsidiarity; in other words, for identifying what needs to be undertaken in connection with this issue at Community level, and what needs to be undertaken and resolved at the level of the Member States.
Concerning compensation for passengers, it is of course very important that a passenger should be offered the possibility of travelling with another airline or having his/her money refunded, but it is also very important to take into account the moral damage suffered in such cases by a passenger who has to cancel his/her journey at the last minute.
Once again, I hope that you will adopt this excellent report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that this is a good agreement.
Sometimes, however, there will still be differences between Member States.
If company B is blacklisted for safety reasons, then, as Mr Jarzembowski said earlier on, they will have the possibility of not flying.
We should be talking about it and explaining it, but not at eleven o’clock at night! &#160;&#160; Mr President, some of us in this Parliament have lived through the dreadful experience of the and maritime disasters and have witnessed the lamentable spectacle of the Member States pushing aside the European Union.
We are seeing genuine Community added value today since we have a Community blacklist, each Member State’s list will be distributed amongst all of the other Member States, and the European Union and the Commission have their degree of autonomy.
It is therefore very important that we provide for rules relating to the monitoring of the training of crews and a very high level of training that is harmonised at European level.
Mr President, the Commission, which has worked in close cooperation with Parliament and the Council to reach an agreement at first reading, accepts all of the compromise amendments achieved following very positive negotiations amongst the three institutions.
We believe the result of this work to be very balanced.
In particular, I would like to mention the main measures that you have all highlighted: the establishment of a single Community blacklist, based on common criteria, the application of prohibitions throughout Community territory, the immediate entry into force of the regulation on the blacklist, as well as the subsequent rapid implementation of the part relating to passenger information and compensation, as Mr&#160;Jarzembowski has stressed.
I also agree with what he has said about passengers with reduced mobility, a system of compensation in the event of cancellation due to the fact that a company included on the blacklist also flies in third countries, a comitology solution, which will enable us to act urgently and to prevent situations of non-decision and, finally, an extension of the duties adopted by the Commission this afternoon in Strasbourg, which includes the pilot qualifications and training mentioned by Mrs&#160;Ayala, Mr&#160;Leichtfried and, just now, Mr&#160;Savary.
I would like to point out to the Presidency that this strengthening of the competences of the European Aviation Safety Agency in no way diminishes the need for close cooperation between the Agency and the civil aviation authorities of each Member State.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge the speed with which you have dealt with this issue without compromising its quality.
I am absolutely delighted about this, and many speakers have made the same point.
Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament most warmly for its decisive contribution to this important dossier, which will increase our citizens’ faith in the safety of air transport, and I would like to end by adding that this text as a whole will strengthen the competences of the European Aviation Safety Agency, competences that it exercises in cooperation with the civil aviation authorities of each Member State.
Finally, there is the launch next Thursday of a very interesting technological project which we call ‘Caesar’ and which will provide much greater safety in the management of air traffic as well.
I believe that we have done some very useful work and, at this rather emotional time, I believe that, like me, your thoughts are with all of those people who have fallen victim to these disasters over the summer.
We took the initiative, but the crucial thing was to complete it and we have done that thanks to all of you. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, we feel reassured as well as flattered. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I shall be very brief and respond to just a couple of issues.
If Parliament proposes a consolidated text in its entirety, then the Presidency of the Council will bring it to the Ministers’ attention at the earliest possible opportunity and the Presidency will recommend it to the Council.
Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to that debate. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
With regard to this new situation we have to react with determination and ambition.
The role of nuclear energy is closely linked to a solid strategy dealing with security of nuclear material and non-proliferation, radiation protection, nuclear safety, reliable disposal of nuclear waste and the safe decommissioning of nuclear installations.
Discussions tonight will address in particular not nuclear plants, but the decommissioning of nuclear installations, be it in relation to the end of their lifetime, or be it for power plants in new Member States, which could not be upgraded at affordable costs.
The Commission has issued its report on decommissioning, which is considered today following the request of the European Parliament.
Therefore, the Commission intends to adopt recommendations on funding schemes earmarked for decommissioning.
The cooperation established in the course of 2005 with Member States and via the fruitful debates launched with the European Parliament on the issues related to the decommissioning schemes will allow significant progress to be made in this important area.
On the more specific question related to the decommissioning of Bohunice, the Accession Protocol provides the framework for the early closure of Bohunice.
The Commission’s responsibility is to monitor the closure commitments, and to deliver the support through the mechanisms available to it.
This we have done for the 2004 and 2005 annual support commitments, and I do not foresee any difficulty with the 2006 contribution.
Against that background, and in order to present its proposals for the next financial perspective, the Commission prepared the draft regulation on which you are now consulted.
Therefore the Commission reserves its position on any amendment related to funding, which is part of the financial perspectives.
I very much regret that we are debating this topic at night, because this issue is so serious and has gone so far off the rails that I would have liked it to be discussed in the clear light of day and with our full attention, as was the case when we recently discussed the REACH programme.
Earlier this year, the Commission brought forward its first communication on preparations for the financing of decommissioning and waste disposal for nuclear installations in Member States operating nuclear power stations.
However, for once it is not the Commission that is responsible for these omissions, but rather the governments of the Member States, which up to now have been very reluctant to reveal the truth about the nuclear industry’s inherited and future liabilities.
Funds in which there is sufficient money to finance the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the storage of nuclear waste are unfortunately the exception in Europe and certainly not the rule.
By neglecting to set aside provisions for waste disposal, the eastern Member States have far more in common with the western Member States than many of us would like to admit.
When and how the decommissioning of a nuclear power station is commenced once it has been closed down, and how waste disposal is arranged is, however, vital when it comes to avoiding the impact of radiation on the environment, on neighbouring residents and on the workers carrying out the decommissioning.
I believe that the decision as to how and when decommissioning takes place – and I believe that this is also the view of those who believe in a responsible environmental policy – should be guided solely by safety considerations, and safety should in no circumstances take second place to the financial interests of the nuclear industry.
People like buying other energy supply companies, and also water supply or telecommunications companies, in fact companies in all sectors involving supply networks.
But even in Germany no one can guarantee at present that the billions that we will need in 2030, 2040 or 2050 will actually be available by then.
I believe that we should be working towards the guaranteed availability of funding for waste disposal, and I also believe that it should be forbidden to use these provisions, which were collected from electricity customers to make provision for future liabilities, in a way that distorts markets and competition.
The aim of my compromise text, which I am presenting in this Chamber today together with my own-initiative report, and which we will be voting on tomorrow, is to encourage the Commission to take action on deficiencies in relation to provisions for waste disposal.
I believe that the polluter pays principle must be observed.
It is a pity that, although the Committee was able to reach agreement on the general direction in which decommissioning provisions should go, we could not agree on the detail and decide upon a set of criteria that we could recommend to the Commission when, as I hope it does, it adopts my overall proposals.
If that is what the House still wants to bring about, then I ask it to support the amendment that my group has tabled, so that we can achieve what I have just proposed.
In concrete terms, however, we are not just discussing provisions in general, but the specific issue of the decommissioning of the Bohunice nuclear power plant.
It has been decided to close down the Bohunice plant because of safety problems that cannot be overcome by retrofitting.
Under the EU’s PHARE programme, EUR 240 million of EU funding has already been paid to Slovakia in connection with the closure of Bohunice.
This money is intended to enhance safety in the area around Bohunice and also provide financial compensation for its early closure.
Following this initial payment, the Commission is now proposing to pay a further EUR 237 million for closure measures and replacement capacity.
I do, however, wish to specifically reject the proposed increase in funding to EUR 400 million for which there have been calls on both the left and right of this House.
False promises will neither help us to gain acceptance for European policy nor guarantee safety at Bohunice.
For the 2007-2013 period, the Commission has proposed a financial contribution of EUR&#160;237&#160;million, but this falls far short of the total costs calculated from the latest studies submitted by the Slovak Government.
The Commission based its calculation of decommissioning costs and the resulting size of its contribution on outdated and rather questionable methods, taking into account only the decommissioning process itself.
Taking account of these facts, the parliamentary Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has proposed in its revised report to increase the EU's financial contribution for 2007-2013 to EUR&#160;400&#160;million.
This proposal also represents a positive compromise for the Government of the Slovak Republic, which had requested financial assistance of around EUR&#160;700&#160;million.
The pressure for budgetary cuts from most Member States is strong and often legitimate.
It will result in Slovakia losing 19% of its production capacity and most probably becoming dependent on electricity imports in the near future.
We are all aware of the very high costs involved in carrying out decommissioning of nuclear power plants in a safe and professional manner.
It had to agree to close down two units of the Bohunice nuclear power plant when this requirement was added almost as an indispensable condition in the very last stages of the accession process.
The first is the principle of social, economic and territorial cohesion between Member States.
Slovakia has made a major commitment for the sake of the European Union, and is fulfilling it, but it cannot go beyond its own limits, its own level of economic development.
The second is security of energy supply, which is as much a right of domestic and industrial consumers in Slovakia as in any other Member State of the European Union.
Against this, the Commission’s proposal for an appropriation of EUR&#160;237&#160;million for the period 2007 to 2013 may seem modest, but there are two very strong arguments in favour of keeping to the Commission’s figure of EUR&#160;237&#160;million.
We know that politically we are entering into a very sensitive period on the financial perspectives and it does not help if Parliament votes one thing one minute and another thing the next.
We have to respect the vote on the budget.
The debate on any further money for Bohunice should take place in the context of the next round of budget discussions and in the light of whatever has happened on decommissioning up to that point.
Paragraph 5 of the report is important in this respect.
It is the nuclear industry – not governments – that needs to make provision in advance for decommissioning and ensure that the full cost is included in the balance sheet from the start.
We are waiting for the Commission to issue a new proposal for a directive on the matter.
A potential problem will always cross state borders.
Unfortunately, we cannot have much confidence in the way that all Member States will reserve funds so that we would be fully certain that there is enough money for many generations to come.
The electric power produced in nuclear power stations should not be cheap, simply because it will fall to future generations to pay for decommissioning of the plants.
The rapporteur, Rebecca Harms, has done some painstaking work in the message she is sending to the Commission, in the form of these reports, asking it to draft a new directive. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the operation and phasing-out of nuclear power are activities that may have cross-border effects in Europe.
I think we can assume that all democratic countries have done the same.
The idea that technocrats in Brussels might be needed to chaperone experienced nuclear power experts in the Member States seems almost absurd.
The Member States’ governments and authorities are subject to democratic control and cannot expose people to risks.
Their reactors were built in a different safety culture in which more risks were taken and in which not enough financial resources were set aside for phasing-out reactors.
It would be a clear token of solidarity on the part of the wealthier Member States if the latter were to contribute resources for this process.
The June List believes that, given that the financial perspective has not been adopted, funding in connection with Bohunice V1 in Slovakia should, to start with, be set at the amount proposed by the Commission, namely EUR&#160;237 million for the period 2007–2013.
Thus, we should not at present commit ourselves to subsidies from the Community budget for the period after this timeframe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current debate is of strategic importance in the ambit of the policies of the European Union.
Article 3 of this Protocol envisages follow-up financial assistance for the decommissioning of reactors 1 and 2 of the Bohunice plant.
We consider that the greatest possible amount of funds must be committed to make reactors 1 and 2 at Bohunice safe during their decommissioning.
Such policies would need to guarantee a level of financial competitiveness in the European system commensurate with the challenges of innovation and development.
A second problem concerns the need to set up an in-depth cost-benefit analysis of a nuclear plant, setting these indicators against installation and decommissioning costs in relation obviously to the average lifespan of the reactors that have been installed.
That being so, is it not the duty of Parliament to recommend to the Commission that negotiations should be opened with the United States and Russia and all affected states, to establish a policy to clean up the entire planet and make it safer? &#160;&#160; Within the framework of the accession negotiations, the institutions of the European Union made the Slovak Republic consent to the early closure of two units of the Jaslovské Bohunice nuclear power plant, despite the fact that the International Atomic Energy Agency has confirmed that the plant meets the criteria for long-term safe operation.
The forced and politically motivated early closure of these nuclear facilities will worsen the energy problems of Slovakia, and the European Union as a whole.
The Slovak Republic will not be able to raise the resources needed to finance safe decommissioning of the nuclear installations, even with the current level of support from the European Union.
I would therefore ask you, esteemed colleagues, at least to back the minimum solution, whereby support for decommissioning the Bohunice reactors will be increased from EUR&#160;237&#160;million to EUR&#160;400&#160;million, as proposed by the ITRE Committee. &#160;&#160; On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, I would like to address the question of financial resources for the decommissioning of nuclear plants.
Resources have to be used for their designated purpose, managed in a transparent way and employed in accordance with the European legislation on competitiveness.
Our political group finds it unacceptable that delay in the decommissioning should occur as a result of a shortfall in financial resources.
Because of our responsibility to the generations that follow, we have to find an appropriate mechanism at a European level to monitor and manage such financial funds.
The document which is the subject of this discussion has been designed to ensure equal competition between nuclear power plants and other power plants.
Commissioner Piebalgs, the point I am making is that we have to monitor our practice at a European level and ensure the implementation of the undertakings made and international standards adopted by the Member States and candidate countries – Bulgaria and Romania.
At the same time, we also have to monitor closely the developments in countries which have commenced accession negotiations.
By this I mean Croatia, which owns a 50% stake in the Krško nuclear power plant (otherwise located in Slovenia) and which undertook commitments similar to those of other nuclear countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, there is the same problem with closing the Bohunice nuclear power plant as there is with Ingalina.
The new, small Member States, which do not have sufficient substitute forms of energy, will nevertheless have to close their power plants under pressure which came from the old Member States at the time they joined the EU.
It is right and just that Slovakia and the other new Member States in a similar position should receive adequate financial assistance to cover the costs of closure.
We need a new energy policy. &#160;&#160; Under substantial pressure several years ago, pre-accession countries such as Slovakia, Lithuania, and now Bulgaria, were unconditionally forced to undertake the decommissioning of their nuclear power plants prior to the expiration of their design operating term.
Such undertakings are difficult to substantiate economically or explain logically.
A task of utmost importance is to help ensure the secure supply of power in these regions, since the forced decommissioning of nuclear power plants creates the threat not only of economic, but also of political dependence on other power suppliers.
In this context I would like to specifically emphasise one vital prerequisite for decommissioning, namely the development of a common EU energy system and the supply of energy resources.
We must address the situation with a reasonable sense of reality. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem we face with regard to the Bohunice nuclear power station is that a new Member State committed itself to shutting down what amounts to a vitally important source of energy for the country.
This power station has by no means come to the end of its useful life.
I believe that we should back the conclusion reached by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and vote in favour of the proposed increase in EU funding to accompany a safe decommissioning of the Bohunice power station, in order to ensure that the Slovak economy remains competitive.
The people of Slovakia should not feel that they have effectively lost out as a result of joining the European Union and of complying with tough requirements that many believe to be somewhat unjustified. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to summarise the situation.
Decommissioning costs should be calculated in from the very beginning and someone must then step forward and take responsibility for the financial and organisational burden of cleaning up the nuclear waste that will be left behind.
Twenty-eight years ago Des O’Malley, then Minister for Industry and Commerce, told us that Ireland would not survive without nuclear power.
We still do not have nuclear power and we have the strongest economy in the EU.
I would also like to use this opportunity to ask decision-makers to consider the lessons of Lithuania, Slovakia and Ireland before deciding to set up a new generation of nuclear power plants.
There are better, safer and cheaper ways to keep the wheels turning and the lights on. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for her very wide-ranging and in-depth analysis.
We have always believed that nuclear power station security and safety is a European issue, and that such issues affect us all, because malfunctioning or other problems affect the public across Europe.
Decommissioning and final storage are clearly issues for competition law.
That is why we in the centre believe that peer review is necessary, that is to say mutual checks and transparent implementation, and that we need to pay particular attention to ensuring that in future funds for closure, final storage and consumer security are available for each energy source.
The European Union, the Court of Auditors and the various other institutions must create a clear legal framework.
It is a matter of presenting the situation as clearly as possible and of applying models that reduce costs to the consumer while at the same time optimising security, safety, final storage and decommissioning. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would basically feel a lot happier in a Europe without nuclear power stations and free of the associated risks.
The only thing is that, in this case, we are talking about a power station that was built before accession to the European Union, one of the consequences of which is that it must now be closed down.
I do not see any great contradiction with the financial perspective, because there is no problem about finding this funding in the long term.
That is about 30&#160;times the annual budget of my country, Cyprus, and a cost the equivalent of building hundreds of hospitals, schools and other institutions of public value.
Furthermore, would it not be fairer if that contribution came from EU countries which themselves benefit from nuclear energy production?
Waste is more than the radioactive material that is left over following decommissioning.
Including the costs of the old fissile materials, transport and mining waste, the external costs are probably a good deal higher than the estimated one billion per nuclear power station.
Mrs Harms is right in suggesting that power companies should, on an annual basis, contribute to a fund covering all costs for decommissioning, processing and the storage of radioactive waste.
We agree with the proposal that a list of decommissioning criteria be drawn up, linked to reserve funds into which electricity companies should pay sufficient funds for waste processing and decommissioning. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would respectfully request your support for the amended proposals of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy concerning the early closure of the V1 nuclear power plant at Jaslovske Bohunice in Slovakia.
In its proposals, the Committee notes that Slovakia is duly fulfilling its responsibilities in this area.
The proposals also acknowledge the substantial financial loss that Slovakia will suffer as a result of the early closure of the installation.
The loss is due mainly to the fact that early closure of the plant means that the financial resources earmarked for its eventual decommissioning will not now be raised.
The proposed EU budget contribution of EUR&#160;400&#160;million towards the cost of early closure is therefore an essential precondition for meeting the commitments assumed by both the European Union and the Slovak Republic. &#160;&#160; The issue of financing early closure of the Bohunice nuclear power plant is a key priority not only for the nuclear sector, but also for the entire energy policy of the Slovak Republic.
Slovakia is ready to meet its commitment set out in Protocol No. 9 to the EU Accession Treaty, despite the fact that it has invested EUR&#160;250&#160;million into modernising and improving safety at the Bohunice plant.
Public opinion in Slovakia is currently against decommissioning the Bohunice installation.
People in Slovakia are very aware of the consequences of the energy crisis and related increases in electricity prices.
Backed up by the study that served as the basis for the discussions with the Commission, Slovakia has requested EUR&#160;702&#160;million, as against the EUR&#160;237&#160;million proposed by the Commission.
The European Parliament’s Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has approved a compromise of EUR&#160;400&#160;million.
I would like to take this opportunity to request that all of you display solidarity with my country, and lend your support to the proposal of the Committee on Industry. &#160;&#160; During the EU accession process, the Slovak Republic did its utmost to ensure the continued operation of its VVER-type nuclear power plants, while improving their safety levels to meet European standards in order to protect people in Slovakia and across all the countries of the Union, in particular our neighbours.
During the period of the accession process we invested around EUR&#160;250&#160;million into two units of the Bohunice nuclear power plant, a substantial amount for a country whose GDP is only slightly more than 50% of the EU average, and, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency, we thus ensured the safe operation of the installation until 2015.
An outsider might ask: ‘If that is the case, why do you need the money to decommission it in the 2007-2013 budget period?’ The expert would answer: ‘Because Slovakia made a commitment during its EU accession process, under what we may call the pressure of circumstances, to decommission the two units in question in 2006 and 2008, respectively.’ No great mathematical skills are required to see that tens of millions of euro will thus have been wasted.
If, according to expert estimates, the assistance needed to meet the deadline is EUR&#160;702&#160;million, the compromise amount of EUR&#160;400&#160;million proposed by the Committee on Industry clearly seems acceptable, and there are a number of arguments showing that this amount should not be a problem even for the final version of the budget.
It proposed that those types of reactors were not upgradable, not because they came from the former Soviet Union, but because of their technical characteristics.
That was why the closure of those reactors was requested during the negotiations.
The decision was not taken in the last package: in many cases, including cases in the Slovak Republic, governments made early commitments to close particular reactors, for example those in Bohunice.
That is why I reject the argument that political pressure was exerted: the decision was based on the analyses made by those responsible for nuclear safety in the European Union.
Negotiations have been conducted accordingly, and all possible implications have been taken into account, not just decommissioning but other issues too.
At the same time, there is a question mark over whether decommissioning funds should be used at a time when all the reactors have been operational and are still operational: if you do not have the decommissioning fund, the price is cheaper.
The Commission has already tried to make legislative proposals on the decommissioning funds because they are essential for competitiveness inside the European Union and for clarifying who will pay for them.
The Commission will prepare a recommendation and will insist on the sufficient and transparent use of decommissioning funds that should be available when required.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12&#160;noon.
