Both candidates will now introduce themselves briefly, starting with Mrs Svensson. (SV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate all my fellow Members on the trust that has been shown in you by the citizens of your respective Member States.
I would therefore like to say that it is extremely important for us now to ensure that we reform the first reading procedure.
We need a policy that safeguards the participation of all citizens.
I would like to see an EU that protects the interests of all its citizens.
I want to see a Europe, an EU, that takes responsibility for human rights.
This is our opportunity.
We should remember that we are currently living through a crisis, and our citizens expect us, first and foremost, to deal with it.
Finally, I would like to say to you that the most important crisis which we must deal with - and which we must acknowledge, however hard that may be - is the lack of trust from our citizens.
Number of voters: 713 Voting slips that were not filled in or were invalid: 69 Votes cast: 644 Absolute majority: 323 Jerzy Buzek received 555 votes. (Loud and sustained applause) Mrs Eva-Britt Svensson received 89 votes. (Applause) Jerzy Buzek has therefore received the absolute majority of the votes cast.
To our colleagues, Mario Mauro and Graham Watson, who stood as candidates and resigned early in order to strengthen the unity of our House, this was a profound gesture.
Mario, I know how important for you human rights are.
I hope that you can make your voice heard there and have more 'Europe' in that institution also. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would also like to join the previous speakers in congratulating you on behalf of my group.
I was very pleased to hear you say that we need to get closer to our citizens.
The fact that you have a history of which you are proud, and rightfully so, from 1980 in Solidarność and onwards, where you brought Poland into NATO and then started the negotiations for membership of the European Union, you are someone who can embrace the changes that Europe needs now.
However, I would also like to mention the important contribution in terms of Polish culture that you can make to cooperation and cultural diversity in Europe.
I once had the honour of presenting the Andrzej Wajda film prize to the director Andreas Dresen and of making a speech to mark the occasion.
The speeches of those Members who wished to speak have now ended, but I think that the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, is signalling that he would like to say a few words.
The power and the competences of this Parliament will also be strengthened with the Treaty of Lisbon, which an overwhelming majority of Parliament, and the Commission, want to adopt; in fact, a treaty that has already been adopted by 26 parliaments of our Europe deserves the respect of all MEPs.
