This Convention, adopted in June 2007 by the 96th session of the International Labour Conference, is aimed at establishing minimum international working standards for the fishing sector and promoting decent living and working conditions for fishers.
The professionals in this sector have been waiting a long time for the adoption of this ILO Convention on work in the fishing sector because they believe that it represents a step forward in dignifying this important strategic sector, in which some 30 million men and women work worldwide.
Therefore, we are calling for every effort to be made to ensure that the various Member States swiftly ratify the Convention, preferably before 2012, as it will enter into force once it has been ratified by 10 of the 180 ILO member countries, eight of which must be coastal states.
An estimated 30 million people work in this field and these people are exposed to significant hardships and dangers quite apart from the effects of globalisation.
The Commission recently reinforced its commitment through the renewed social agenda and a report linked to the Communication on decent work of 2006.
In June 2007 the Convention and the non-legally binding recommendation were adopted by the governing body of the International Labour Organization.
Convention 188 revises several older standards of the International Labour Organization relating to fishermen and, when it comes into force, it can create equal and improved conditions for all.
I think 2012 is a long way away and we should try to shorten this deadline if at all possible.
The question for me in this debate is whether ratification of Convention 188 of the International Labour Organisation, thereby extending the regulation and policy to those who work in fishing, will be a promotion and a protection to fishermen or an obstacle, and whether or not it can achieve the global level playing field that our fishing industry needs to survive.
It remains a very tough profession and worthy of respect, with 24 000 deaths every year.
They also emphasise, from a similarly wide range of viewpoints and through profound arguments, its importance to the everyday lives of fishermen, who number almost 30 million, as I mentioned in my introduction.
Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion the formal process for this proposal is clear.
The debate closed.
