Nowadays, with the advent of stents and acute catheterisation, the cost has risen to EUR 10 000 for a single treatment.
The creation of centres of reference, the exchange of best practices, the combating of the inequalities which unfortunately exist in the European Union - not only from one state to another, but also within the Member States themselves - are the objectives addressed by the new programme.
As far as research is concerned (because the question also refers to research), the European Union has made over EUR 100 million available for research into cardiovascular diseases through the Sixth Framework Programme on research and development.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, my first thanks go to Mr Trakatellis for his excellent work on getting agreement today on a package of amendments on the public health programme.
In recital 14 we talk about increasing healthy life years, and we want to delete the words 'also called disability-free life expectancy indicator'.
We have had many approaches from disability organisations, which make the point that you can have a disability and be healthy and that, therefore, this terminology seems to suggest that if you are a disabled person you are automatically somebody who is unhealthy.
The compromise between the Member States in December 2005 on the new financial framework for the period 2007-2013 left funding for numerous policy areas at much lower levels than initially proposed by the Commission.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the 2007-2013 Community action programme in the field of health aimed to set a course for European health services.
Funding laboratories without establishing the type of research they are engaged in is also cause for concern.
It would seem that in view of the limited funding available, this programme cannot deal with the whole range of problems affecting European health care services. - (SK) With regard to this report, I subscribe to all of the observations made by the rapporteur.
In a situation where other programmes have been cut to the tune of a mere 2 to 5% and when every third citizen in Europe develops cancer, I believe that in assuming this stance the Commission is ridiculing and disparaging the patients and citizens of the European Union.
I am sure we would have liked more resources than 20 cents per head of population per year.
The EU has so much to offer in terms of added value which would surely repay many times any money spent on combating it.
The second amendment that I should like to mention and support concerns patient awareness.
The problem is the extent of the desire to invest in such programmes, in particular when it comes to prevention.
For many who are ill, health care in another EU country may be a matter of life or death.
European health care consumers should have access to the whole range of European health care, but that means having knowledge and information, and, where these are concerned, the health programme could play an invaluable role in disseminating information about health and health care to all patients throughout Europe.
I and many like me therefore think how unfortunate it is that, in many respects, precisely this area appears to have been curtailed when, for budgetary reasons, the Commission revised its proposal for a new health programme.
Knowledge centres and networks, which should be dedicated to the most important diseases, can be a vital source of information for doctors and patients alike. (SK) It is a proven fact that money invested in human health makes the best investment.
It is a good thing that the political agreement in November 2006 for the area of health accepted the Commission's revised proposal, including the budget.
It is particularly important that the new EU countries participate in the European projects.
Both of these concerns are common to all Member States, and yet neither has been included in any detail among the main goals of the Union's action plan in the area of health.
I therefore strongly support the proposals in the second reading, including Amendment 2, for example, which calls for the programme to provide citizens with better access to information, and Amendment 9, which concerns policies aimed at leading a healthier lifestyle.
I should like to conclude by thanking you all, in particular the Environment Committee, as well as Mr Trakatellis for being patient and persistent.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 10 July 2007.
