Approval of the Minutes of the two previous sittings The Minutes of the sittings of Thursday 3 February and Monday 14 February have been distributed.
If Air France insists on boycotting the European Parliament, we should take measures to prevent this occurring again.
Thank you, Mr Medina Ortega.
Madam President, I had the same experience as Mr Medina Ortega yesterday.
Thank you, Mr Lannoye.
Madam President, I should like to make a request in connection with today' s vote which I started to make yesterday during the debate on the EQUAL report.
Mr Corbett, I have not received any notification.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking, and this is why I preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech, which is available in four languages.
To respect my speaking time, I will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme: a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century, when it is right and proper to see Europe in a broader perspective, a Europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation.
Let us remember that for half a century, Europe has provided us with peace, security and freedom and a united Europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity.
The crisis in the Commission was, in fact, a crucial point in the relationship between Europe and its citizens, and the low turnout at the European elections was a worrying indication of this.
Even stronger still, however, is the sense of insecurity, the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards, a world which is completely changing, where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference.
Some countries - such as France and Spain - managed to meet the challenge, giving rise to great nation States; other countries - such as Italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium: headway in science, technology, economic progress, defence structures and military organisation, philosophy and literature.
But more vital still is a Europe that feels strong in the political arena.
In years past, the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions, the mainstay of European life.
Today, the new frontiers of European integration are political frontiers: common foreign and security policy, justice and internal security, and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based.
The Commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005, a programme that was immediately sent to the European Parliament and with which you are already familiar, so I will not go into detail about it now.
We must govern Europe in such a way as to make us more efficient, to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved, starting with the important issue of the involvement of women.
One of the main differences in the comparison made recently between Europe and the United States was not so much job mobility or risk capital, as women' s involvement in economic life, an issue that has much more prominence in the United States than in Europe.
The Commission must define what its fundamental activities are, what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities, thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries, regions and local communities.
When that time comes, when we have used up all our resources, I shall not hesitate to come here before you to request further resources, but what I am saying now is that if we are not given these necessary resources, we shall have to refuse to take on any new duties because the available resources will not be commensurate with the new tasks that we will be taking on.
If we do not do this, we shall have failed in our duty.
Remember that the Marshall Plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources: it was even more effective because it made us Europeans work together towards a new horizon; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy.
Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security, peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage.
We have made many promises in this regard, but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread.
Indeed, enlargement, which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - I am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete, objective criteria, and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and, to an even greater degree, public opinion in our own Member States.
I repeat: we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own Member States with even greater reassurance.
We therefore have another duty at international level, which has already been proposed by the Commissioner responsible for trade: the undertaking to relaunch the Millennium Round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries, not just in terms of writing off debts, but also via the unilateral opening-up to trade with the poorest countries in the world, with a great deal of willingness on our part, which we had already proposed prior to Seattle but which we could not put into practice.
All over the world, Europe' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities.
We should remember that we, the European Union, are a union of minorities: we are all a minority within Europe.
This is what we wish to do: maintain our role as a supranational structure, maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties, but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts.
I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion.
I will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme: the economy and quality of life.
I have already talked about the economy: we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs.
The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology, employment - will be a decisive summit.
It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind.
The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment.
If it is higher than at the previous elections, it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the Commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate.
We read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the Prodi Commission will be a time of major changes.
Europe will press ahead with integration; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will, in the end, reunite our continent.
However, we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present.
Mr President of the Commission, you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks.
You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity.
However, there is a current trend - the "fauna, flora, habitat" directive was quoted as an example - which, in my country at least, creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to Brussels and that Brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the European Union.
We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the presentation of, and the first ever debate on, the Commission' s programme for government - the word President Prodi is so fond of; as I am -for the whole legislature.
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature.
Last week, the new Minister for Finance of the Austrian coalition described the Austrian Parliament as a farce and a theatre.
We understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda, which also includes what is known as 'quality of life' priorities, that is to say, the rights of citizens as consumers and as people, in relation to those questions which we always talk about, but never give sufficient priority to, that is, the European social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances, consumer rights, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential.
I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity.
In all other areas, I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion.
Not only should the Commission discuss this, but also our states, our parliaments and our civil society.
Madam President, I would like to refer briefly to the last objective, which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental: the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the Europe' s role in the world.
We must not forget Africa, a continent which has been forsaken, not only by God, but also by Europe, nor our important contribution to cooperating with development.
The challenge of enlargement is political.
The means of achieving this are difficult but they are real.
My group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a White Paper next spring addressing the issue of governance.
That could convince people that Europe, in its governance, is not something run exclusively from Brussels, which concentrates and soaks up more powers, more decisions, more authority.
For my group, enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured, be they governance, be they the intergovernmental conference, be they reform of the institutions.
The strategic paper emphasises the global role of the European Union.
Our central aim must be to give the Union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid, trade and finance.
We need to open that debate.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I greatly admire the openness with which you admit that the European Union must change fundamentally.
Do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference.
In this respect, Parliament will definitely defend, along with yourselves, the importance of supranational decision-making.
You must embark on a dialogue with the international community.
The European Union could be critically important in a process in which the United Nations and the WTO really do become subject to democratic monitoring.
Madam President, my group was one of those which wanted to have a document allowing an exchange of views on the Commission' s strategic objectives within the group before this debate, instead of being reduced to an on-the-spot reaction in plenary.
A more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view.
For example, at least in the countries which I know well, I doubt that the intention, repeated three or four times in the Commission document, to reform 'Europe' s social protection, health care and pension systems ...in a climate of more cautious public spending' will meet the needs of those whose confidence we apparently want to win back.
This is a starting point and we have five years to succeed, provided that the political will exists and is expressed with sufficient force and clarity.
We await the White Paper on the governance of the European Union dealing with the issue of balance between Member States' governments and the European Union institutions which is to be published this summer.
On this specific point I think it is important that we address the reform of the internal decision-making procedures of the Commission.
This is a scenario whereby the European Union has a membership of over 25 Member States.
I believe this would fly in the face of the spirit and objective of the Treaty of Rome and all subsequent treaties.
I would like to remind those who seek to eliminate the right of small Member States to nominate a European Commissioner that the United States of America gives smaller states the same recognition as larger states in the United States Senate.
More or less each of the 50 states in the US has two elected positions in the United States Senate, regardless of its population.
It would be very difficult for those who propose a 'yes' vote in any such future treaty to win the support of the Irish people if we lose our right to have our nominee to the European Commission.
Undoubtedly, reform of the European Council is also going to be included in this White Paper on the governance of the European Union which will be published this summer.
I do not believe that there is broad support in Europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation, justice and home affairs, and foreign affairs at European Union level.
At present, under Article 99 of the Treaty of Rome, decisions taken at EU level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity.
I support the enlargement of the European Union.
I support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the Union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner.
President of the Commission, a short while ago you said that no political structure sets out five-year plans.
There was only one point that you really stressed - too much in my opinion - and that was that it looks almost as if the highest priority task that you are setting yourself is to cease "unnecessary" activities.
We should be careful, though, Mr Prodi, because we had a crisis of confidence in the previous Commission and backed this Commission - at least a parliamentary majority backed this Commission - precisely because, first and foremost, the reform of the Commission would bring consolidation, a new identity and a new awareness of being guided by a firm hand.
It seems that you are proposing the same old menu, but with more unsatisfactory implications, restricting the Commission, so you say, to the task of drawing up a few White Papers, as you proposed.
The same goes for enlargement as an end in itself, without it being linked to a reform to make the European Union and its structures much more efficient, and to proposals that the Commission could have made at the IGC.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, I should like to applaud your proposal for a radical decentralisation of the Union' s activities and ask why, then, you are proposing a legislative programme which would lead to centralisation.
Madam President, this morning the Commission President, Mr Prodi, has set out ambitious goals for the European Union for the next five years, laudable aims indeed, to make a strong and effective European presence felt in the world: succeeding with enlargement, meeting the challenge of selling e-Europe, introducing better principles of governance.
But how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high?
Here there are three elements I would like to contribute.
We must not fear globalisation, but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society.
We will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation.
We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes.
Lastly, we need to ensure that there is proper, genuine reform of the European Commission.
Yes, the Commission - guardian of the Treaties - is meant to be an independent body, but it also has to be accountable to European citizens through our Parliament.
The Commission does not reflect the majority in this particular Parliament.
We in Parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in Europe.
This governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the European Union, has its relevant role to play.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, numerous steps have been taken in the past to strengthen the European Union, from the euro to resolutions on a common security policy; even to the response by the 14, the Commission and Parliament to the new coalition in Austria.
The Union professes its faith in its fundamental values in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the institutions of the EU confirmed this faith once again when the new coalition was formed in Austria.
However, the full potential of these values will only be realised if they are set out in comprehensive detail in and form part of the Treaty and, in the final analysis, represent legal claims on the part of individual citizens.
In this sense, the Commission must insist on building up the common area of freedom, security and justice and in this sense I disagree with the last two speakers.
We are in the process of building a house but too few of our citizens really feel at home in our house.
That, as you have said yourself today, means that you must also identify tasks, policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the Commission's main vocation.
Many existing European Union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date, or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at European level.
If we are to succeed in persuading a sceptical European public of the merits of further European integration, we must be able to demonstrate that we are as active in the devolution of unwarranted EU powers as we are in the evolution of new EU powers.
It must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing EU policies and programmes, which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality, are devolved and repealed.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, I fully support the thinking of the proposals made by my colleague, Mrs Hautala, on the Commission' s strategic objectives for the coming five years.
Rather, I want to start by welcoming certain proposals which you have made in this programme for 2000.
The Commission should react quickly in this respect.
For example, in the social area, it is not enough to announce a communication on a programme of social action.
On the environment, you have announced a proposal for a decision on a sixth action programme on the environment.
The Commission has a role both within the EU and throughout the world.
Madam President, you spoke about fundamental political values, and one of the fundamental political values, even more important than democracy, is respect for others.
We therefore need resources available to spend before proceeding to enlargement, so that we can at last establish a European monitoring body responsible for monitoring quality of life and living conditions, with the aim of creating a new world where such tragedies will no longer occur.
We live in a world of rules and regulations: let us regulate the Internet too and give our fellow citizens rules and hope for the future.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Members of the Commission, five months after its coming into office, the Commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the European Union.
Moreover, Europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen EU Member States.
You stated that the new European government requires strong institutions, while the Commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks.
In the tradition of our continent, this realisation is an important one which merits recognition.
The European Commission will need to play an important director' s role in this, provided that clear and attainable objectives are in place.
Clear priorities, focus, and, above all, communication with society to inform them of what we are up to, are the key goals.
But then I wonder: if there is talk of a real common policy, of a system of crisis prevention and crisis control at Community level, where are the actual proposals then?
Indeed, at the end of the day, we need these in order to verify whether we can realise our objectives in this area.
Madam President, words are essential, but we can only judge the Commission on its merits.
Secondly, the new "in" word is flexibility.
However, increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation.
It is too high a price, not only for the Member States already in the Union but also for the states which want to join the Union.
That goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new, better quality of life.
The Commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the Union as soon as possible.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, your inspiring speech, Mr Prodi, has quite won me over.
It raises expectations, but it can also lead to disappointment.
Regions which, culturally and economically, sometimes match the interest of some Member States.
The new Europe should not only expand horizontally, but also vertically, by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community.
So, in the first part on the new forms of European governance, the words 'federalism' and 'superstate' are not mentioned at all.
These ambiguities mask many misunderstandings, primarily about our values.
In the Union for a Europe of Nations Group our principles are rather different.
Clearly we want to defend the countries of Europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, you claim to be shaping a new Europe yet you are lacking one basic element: confidence.
Yet at the same time you are supporting Communist China and trading with countries which have openly violated human rights for decades.
You will cynically and hypocritically use Austria as a convenient threat to further strip the Member States of any real powers in the construction of the European Union.
Your Commissioners are clearly not solely responsible for this.
The governments which, through spinelessness or ideology, support you are also responsible.
The Archbishop of Milan, Monsignor Carlo Maria Martini, is calling upon all politicians, in particular those like you and me, President Prodi, for whom the cultural and historic principle behind their presence in politics is the principle of the active involvement of Catholics in politics, to reconsider a development process, which, in addition to economic profit, takes the marginalised and those left behind by society very much into account.
The fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom, which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced.
This social freedom, which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor, gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability.
Madam President, President of the Commission, this is a vital document for the future and fate of Europe.
However, out of all the points, two specifically require our attention, and they are closely linked: peace and stability within Europe and outside Europe.
For some time, we have all agreed on this notion, but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement, even if this comes at a price.
These goals will be more easily obtainable only if the Intergovernmental Conference, which will draw to a close within the year, results in constitutional reform, providing the Commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement Council decisions or Parliament' s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real European government.
In essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity.
Precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence.
In 1998, 123 referrals were made to the Court of Justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25% of environmental directives were not applied or transposed.
Recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential.
You have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society, not only economically but also in terms of public health.
Finally, you do highlight European research as being at the heart of our future.
Madam President, we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000, set out with so much enthusiasm by President Prodi this morning.
In the two documents, strong emphasis is placed on the need to define new forms of European governance and, to this end, to introduce a new agenda for the Commission, establishing more stringent priorities in the pursuit of the goal of full employment, through more efficient coordination of the economic and social policies of the States, and, primarily - allow me to stress this - of the nations that have joined the monetary union and which must be enabled to become the first example of closer cooperation.
To this end, I shall confine myself to stressing, out of all the choices available, the importance of three priority decisions which should, in the drawing-up of action programmes for the government of the Union, be the basis for both the Commission' s agenda and the actions of the European Union in the coming months.
Secondly, the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via Community projects in the priority sectors of research, innovation and training.
I feel that these parameters - particularly those of a qualitative nature, resulting from investments in continuous training, refresher courses, adaptability and retraining of older workers - are considerably more significant and binding owing to their lasting effects over the medium term than the simple drawing up of annual quantitative objectives, that are always debatable, regarding new employment or employment cuts.
You say that you will not hesitate to come to this House to request more resources for the Commission, but the Commission must be aware that we are walking on thin financial ice.
Madam President, the Commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever.
We Socialists applaud the Commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty.
Everyone knows that quality of life and full and better employment depend on sustainable economic growth.
The Union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient.
In the world of new technologies, the main danger remains that access to information will be easier the richer you are.
The gulfs which are opening up everywhere are the main problem for our era.
To conclude, the next five years will be crucial.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, in my view, this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses.
That makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view.
Our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic, but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control, which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment.
Commissioner, far too little is said in your paper about regional policy.
If we fail to complete it, citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage.
The Agenda 2000 issues are, of course, ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives, the economic and social Agenda and a better quality of life.
This is because it is essential to achieve two things: the European model of multifunctionality in agriculture must be secured, and this must be done in a way which facilitates the liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products, mainly to the benefit of developing countries.
As for fishing, there is nothing in your programme to tell us that the predatory exploitation of fishing grounds, which has gone as far as to wipe out entire species of fish, will certainly prove fruitful in the future.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of our vote on your appointment we invited you to come here today.
The interlinking of the EU institutions, the responsibilities of the Member States and the local and regional authorities is all very well.
Our people expect more Europe, but not just any Europe.
They are expecting us not to fall in with globalisation but rather, on the basis of our social model, to be able to organise globalisation.
In this respect I must say that, in terms of your commitment to a political union, to which we are favourable, this cannot be achieved unless it is based on our social model, on our originality and our capacity to better regulate the business of this world.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I should like to start with a quote: "The Commission will continue to work towards establishing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights and draw up proposals to bring about an ambitious programme.
We here in Parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme.
Madam President, I would also like to welcome the Commission' s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years, although I hope that it intends, in subsequent documents, to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today.
It is really surprising that the Commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years, in view of the reform which must take place in 2002.
There is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years.
However, it seems that the Commission does not share this view, although it is the Commission which is obliged to present the Council and Parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001, and it is on this basis that the Council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification.
In fact, the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions, such as the European Parliament, which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy.
Less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process.
Madam President, I should like to add my congratulations to Commissioner Prodi's programme.
Full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens.
Yes, e-Europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs.
I welcome the Commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and I would like to congratulate our Portuguese Presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses.
There is still more we have to do, and the Lisbon Summit will become part of that.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme.
I am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture; they create jobs.
You say in your five-year programme that the people of the European Union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation.
I feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us.
Not a single line, nor a single word, refers to fishing or the CFP.
You have made an explicit reference to the CAP for the coming years, but you have not done so for the CFP, with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions - as has already been said - and in a global context, in the context of globalisation.
This House has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to focus on the point of internal reform.
At the same time, we are aware that this is a massive programme and that, during the overhaul in the next couple of years, it will be necessary to keep the actual results coming in, as before.
This can be prevented if a European social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas.
Because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions, such as education and health care.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I have read and re-read the Commission' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office.
We should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the European Union, for which the Commission is responsible.
This report confirms that whereas an average level of development is given a rating of 100, the ten so-called "strongest" regions reached an average of 158, and the ten so-called "weakest" regions reached a figure of around 50.
I am waiting for the Commission' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions, which the Council decided should be drawn up by December 1999.
Firstly, Mr President, although your two predecessors concentrated on developing an internal market and establishing the single currency, it has been left to you to develop this whole value of citizenship which is at the heart of European construction.
Your action programme and your objectives are reserved, even silent, specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed.
This is an absolute priority if you are to reconcile Europe with the people and ensure that the people choose Europe rather than Jörg Haider.
The recent dioxin scare in Belgium, prior to that the BSE crisis in Britain, and the continuing controversy over the safety of genetically-modified foods, have all contributed to undermining consumer confidence in the safety of the food they eat.
If the Commission can indeed restore confidence in the food production chain it will simultaneously restore confidence in the European Union institutions themselves and demonstrate their ability to protect the rights of EU citizens.
I therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety, public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the Commission's work programme for 2000.
However, I was disappointed with the nature of the proposal for the establishment of a European food authority in the recent White Paper.
Furthermore, future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the European food authority and the authorities of national Member States, for example the food safety authority in Ireland.
This body, for example, alongside the recently established cross-border body in Ireland for food safety, is already doing good work.
We will be looking for the detail year by year, for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year.
Within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect.
Mr Prodi, you set great store in your reform efforts on introducing a forward-looking employment policy throughout Europe.
We must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry.
However, I am sure that I do not need to remind you of the importance of a branch of the economy which is both an economic and a social factor, which affects not only Germany but all the coastal regions of Europe.
Madam President, many of the speakers from the Socialist Group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the Commission' s statement.
One area that I want to focus on, in addition to those already identified, is that of cultural diversity in Europe.
But there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the Commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity.
If we are to ensure that we defeat the fear-mongers amongst us - those seeking power on the backs of anxious citizens - then we must seriously address the question of how we can live together and how we can dismantle the negative stereotypes that we have of each other, both within the present European Union and among those who seek to join us and, indeed, among those in other parts of Europe and the world who want to come and live and work in Europe.
It has been a calm debate with broad agreement over the basic points, but also where there has been a marked reassertion of Parliament' s rights and of the need for cooperation and dialogue between Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
It has been a constructive debate for Europe.
Mrs Hautala, I think you were almost right in saying this, because it is indeed a political manifesto.
Cast your minds back - I recall this because it took place in this very Chamber - to the speech given by the President of the French Republic on the issues of reinforced cooperation which reopened a dialogue that appeared closed prior to this.
I hope that globalisation will continue to have this positive aspect in the future, but - and this is going to be one of our major commitments in the future - it leads to problems in poor countries and in our countries, problems that we must address.
And it also leads to problems in the weakest sectors of our countries.
Clearly, when our young graduates notice differences in salaries, small or large depending on the type of employment they are in, and when the financial sector pays wages that are X number of times higher than someone working in research, for example, all of this creates problems relating to the organisation of our future society.
I started to respond in Lisbon, by attempting to reduce the marginalisation of an entire age group, that is, to provide all the young people of Europe with new instruments for communication, broadly reunite all the European schools and create new opportunities to prevent geographical and social marginalisation in Europe.
Too often, subsidiarity has been lauded in theory but has not been understood in practice.
We must give subsidiarity a material body and a political soul: this is the aim of the White Paper, which must put value back into Europe and recommend what practical action to undertake.
Let us remember how often we have been made into a laughing-stock because we deal with things that are absolutely ridiculous, which defy common sense and conflict with the interests of our population.
Regarding this matter and this transformation, the Commission can and must be a real leader, relieved of useless burdens, given more credibility because it takes tangible form in its "core business" and because it does not make requests but instead rejects unnecessary tasks and powers.
The Commission must become a driving force.
We have done the same thing in the White Paper regarding the food sector.
Just as enlargement is a difficult challenge, this is too because it has never before been attempted.
At the time of the actual decision, here, we shall all have to be united in order to demonstrate that enlargement is in the interests of peace, prosperity and is taking place by way of a guarantee, as I said before, for our people, in addition to a guarantee for the countries which are attempting to enlarge.
I have just been to Lithuania, Slovakia and Romania, three countries where we have had to request nuclear power stations to be closed.
If we do not act in these sectors of civilisation, it will be impossible for Africa to act.
I did not mention it because I believe that the five-year programme must set out the major policy lines regarding general development, but I am convinced of its enormous importance for cohesion and European solidarity.
It is precisely with these essential functions, with which we must ensure respect for our irreplaceable, political and moral role at Europe' s helm, that the Commission must strive to show the advantages and costs of our policies and to be very clear for a population that asks us for clarity, that asks us to be absolutely transparent.
It reassures me because I have perceived a broad consensus on the basic lines of our programme and because I have the impression that its true substance has been understood.
It emerged clearly, but forcefully that the challenges before us are the great political challenges that we must tackle together.
This makes close collaboration between Parliament and the Commission even more important.
In any case, this debate has further convinced me that the major challenges that lie ahead are political challenges.
And Mr Barón Crespo, we cannot forget that the five-year programme was unable to exert any practical influence in the world; it disappeared from political manifestos when Siena's role in the world weakened.
Mr President, first of all let me say that I am in full support of a statute for assistants.
Yesterday when I arrived in Parliament I was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of Parliament.
As all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the Comart committee of Parliament.
Following a letter I received yesterday, I immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration, probably in the near future and possibly in the next month.
But all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of Parliament.
But all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called Comart committee.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
The combination of these two positions makes for a mixture which could be disastrous for the future for Europe.
I counted no less than seven calls in the resolution, at different points, for equal rights for European citizens and legal immigrants.
This has become a real obsession.
Finally, the European Parliament calls for a review of immigration policy in view of the population situation.
For these areas, the Intergovernmental Conference must devise new cooperation procedures based on the political role of the Council and interparliamentary control exercised by the national parliaments.
However, we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6, because they seem to us to be legally incorrect.
On the other hand, we have voted in favour of Recital J which, in fact, is in line with what I, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, proposed to that Committee, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference.
For similar reasons, we have voted in favour of paragraph 14 which, with the oral amendment, dealt with certain very justifiable concerns about the question of subsidiarity, since political rights, not just voting in local elections, but political rights in general terms, form part of the sovereignty of Member States.
The Europe of Schengen clearly finds it much easier to hound the persecuted from the south than dictators, even though the UN estimates that we will need 159 million immigrants to maintain a stable population between now and the year 2025.
McCarthy report (A5-0026/2000) Mr President, I would firstly like to point out that I was Mayor of Bilbao during the nineties, which gave me the opportunity to present one of the first urban pilot projects to be subsidised by the Commission.
Thirdly, we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other Community programmes, as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question.
Lastly, in today' s vote on our four amendments, two have been approved and the other two rejected.
This has obliged us to abstain from the final vote, because we do not understand how we can ignore the environmental question when deciding which projects must be financed and we do not understand how we can reject the idea that each Member State can dedicate, to URBAN projects, that portion of the Structural Funds which it has not spent in accordance with Community programmes.
Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted for this report on sustainable urban development, known as URBAN.
As with all other Community initiatives, this is very positive.
There can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city.
At a forthcoming review of these programmes, it ought to be established that the EU' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the EU. . (DA) We have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the Commission concerning the guidelines for a Community initiative relating to the economic and social regeneration of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis and designed to promote sustainable development (URBAN).
With some 80% of the population of Europe living in an urban area, cities are at the forefront of economic, social and cultural change in Europe.
At the same time, the social and economic problems facing European society are more pronounced in urban areas.
The concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved.
This is why the European Parliament successfully called for the URBAN Community Initiative or CIP to be extended during the reform of the Structural Funds.
The success of URBAN during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable.
The results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas.
The new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them, while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups.
This reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new URBAN initiative.
So far, Portugal has had six projects financed, on behalf of the municipal authorities of Oporto, Gondomar, Lisbon, Odivelas, Oeiras and Amadora.
Although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises, the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way.
The URBAN Community Initiative is helping to achieve the European Union' s desire to communitise urban policy.
It would be more appropriate for the EU to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing European policies.
Finally, the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities.
Decourrière report (A5-0028/2000) Mr President, the INTERREG programme is particularly close to our hearts.
The answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted.
We know that some Member States are still wavering, for example, between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the Pyrenees, as in the Aspe valley.
However, I am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway, the A32.
In this respect too, I would ask the Commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies, specifically in the INTERREG programmes which are being submitted.
This is why the INTERREG Community Initiative was launched in 1990.
This programme was designed to encourage cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the Community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the Union.
I must stress that interregional cooperation significantly encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of European integration.
More active participation by these authorities in Community initiatives should be promoted, bearing in mind that in many cases they have a very limited capacity for cooperation because of the different legal frameworks and different levels of development on either side of the border.
In the same respect, given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50% of all unemployment, the INTERREG funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment.
I hope that the projects included within the programmes can help to provide solutions to these problems and to implement in practical terms the principle of free movement of workers which is in a bad way in my region!
INTERREG resources must also contribute to the development of a European research area.
Between 1994 and 1999, our regions annually received an average of FF 15.4 billion but will receive only FF 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006.
My region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais will be particularly affected with French Hainaut losing the aid paid to Objective 1 regions.
This loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade Europe.
The European regional policy also reinforces the centralism of Brussels with which the regional authorities are invited to negotiate directly on the use of the Structural Funds.
The INTERREG initiative, launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a Europe without borders and therefore without nations, sits comfortably within this philosophy.
I want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this Community initiative.
This does not involve the concerns about the future of the Atlantic Arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand A on cross-border cooperation.
In the Commission guidelines, few maritime areas are eligible for INTERREG IIIA.
INTERREG III, strand A, would allow the regions in this area to advance a number of structural projects needed to develop small and medium-sized undertakings and to promote research and technical development through knowledge transfer.
The European Commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions.
This policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in Brittany in that catches could be unloaded at Irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the Breton agri-foodstuffs industry.
The integration of the maritime border into strand A would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the 'continentalisation' of the European Union.
We therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot Community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of Europe to be defined. . (DA) The European project began as a partnership between States.
The EU should be prepared to meet that competition.
It should not be about greater integration of the EU countries in the form of a federation but about using our economic potential across national borders.
Nonetheless, the French delegation in our group was unable to accept the fact that the Commission and the federalist faction have diverted the INTERREG initiative from its original purpose in order to detract still further from the political role of the nations.
We have no intention of giving Brussels the job of regulating regional planning in the Member States, as suggested in recital of the report.
We are therefore unable to approve the development of strand IIIC of the Community initiative encouraging interregional cooperation under the responsibility of the Commission and sidelining the Member States.
This infatuation with strand IIIC is all the stranger in that the rapporteur himself acknowledges in his explanatory statement that 'the draft guidelines do not provide any indication of possible fields of co-operation' (p.17) and that 'the responsibilities are diffuse and vague' (p.18).
Calling under these circumstances, as he does in paragraph 20, for the budget for this strand to be increased is another example of the irresponsible and ideological outbidding tactics which are customary in this House.
It is up to Washington, not us, to assume responsibility for a conflict which was triggered merely to serve its interests.
The French delegation in our group is therefore unable to support the Decourrière report and will choose to abstain during the final vote.
Procacci report (A5-0025/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Procacci report on rural development, not only because I endorse the major policy lines of the LEADER programme, but also because it complements the URBAN programme, which I spoke about earlier.
I therefore believe that it is very important for everyone to back this European Union plan and for it to be further developed.
However, first I should like to take this opportunity to express my full support for the focal points of the Commission' s new programme.
That applies in particular to the integrated, multisectoral approach which is gaining ground in the agricultural sector and which is highlighted time and again by national agricultural ministers in the Member States.
And greater emphasis on environmental protection in connection with rural areas in general is extremely important for the future of all of us.
Our position on LEADER is a product of our more general assessment of the EU' s overall agricultural policy.
Both LEADER 1 and LEADER 2, which were implemented in the 1990s, were ingredients of the new CAP that emerged after its review in 1992 and, along with other respective measures, they constituted the so-termed second pillar of the EU' s rural development policy.
The present CAP, however, is worse than its predecessor and it also starts from a worse basis, granted that the 1992 CAP review and the GATT agreement in 1995 have created serious problems and impasses for the agricultural economy.
In no case, however, are they programmes for the integrated development of the selected areas and they do not create permanent jobs in the countryside because most of the activities there are not productive in nature.
The actual appropriations available for LEADER + compared with LEADER 2 are smaller despite their increase by 15% (from EUR 1 775 million for LEADER 2 to EUR 2 020 million for LEADER +).
This is because the 15% increase is nominal and not real, granted that average yearly inflation in the Community during those years was approximately 2%.
However, we amended the draft report adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to clarify certain points which will make this Community initiative more effective.
It was also essential to ensure that better account is taken of the development priorities of local operators and that the benefit of LEADER + funds is not limited solely to agricultural regions with a low population density.
Amendment No 10 which I tabled on behalf of my group refers to the concept of 'economic and social cohesion' rather than 'regional development' as the European Union does not have any recognised competence in this area.
Amendment No 11 replaces 'government or municipal officials' with 'government officials' .
It specifies the necessary coordination between LEADER + and Community cooperation and partnership programmes such as INTERREG, PHARE, Sapard or MEDA.
In the territory of Member States of the European Union, applicant countries or Member States of EFTA, there may be interrelations between the various Community initiatives.
In essence, we are, of course, in favour of this LEADER + Community Initiative.
The conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union' s priorities since it is essential to preserve the integrity of our agriculture and the whole rural fabric, including infrastructure, public and private services and so on.
In this context, in committee we regretted the paltry funding allotted to rural development and supported the amendments calling for an increased budget for this Community initiative so that it matches the previous LEADER I and LEADER II initiatives.
This is unacceptable given the importance of rural development and the consequences for farmers of the fall in prices and aid specified in the reform of the CAP following the Berlin agreements.
As far as we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are concerned, so far so good.
We asked the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which pointed out that, as far as approximating laws is concerned, Article 37 is adequate in this case.
We negotiated with the Commission for two years on the seed directive and came to a compromise regulating the release of genetically-modified organisms in the directive, taking the text on which Directive 70/524 is based as a starting point.
The Commission pointed out in committee that it plans to present a novel feed directive in the future.
We are therefore assuming that you will accept our proposed amendment with regard to genetically-modified organisms.
Directive 70/524 still contains the old text because the seed directive was submitted to Parliament in 1986 and we then negotiated with the Commission until 1988, while the report on this directive was dealt with in 1994 and Parliament obviously did not accord genetically-modified organisms the same importance then as it did later when I was rapporteur.
We therefore assume, Commissioner Byrne, that you too will accept our proposed amendment of the legal base.
Mr President, Commissioner, does regulating additives in feedingstuffs come under competition or consumer policy?
Food safety must take absolute priority over feedingstuffs in all our discussions.
Mr President, this proposal to amend the 1970 directive on additives in feedingstuffs is the first in a whole series of proposals on the subject of feedingstuffs.
However, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has voted unanimously on some important amendments to the Commission proposal.
It is therefore only logical that we make provision for genetically modified feedingstuff additives in this case, just as we have in regulations already passed in other areas, such as forest reproductive material, to mention just one example.
However, there is another environmental principle at stake, namely the exchange principle.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on additives in animal feedingstuffs concerns the technical and economic problem of restoring the competitive balance between different additives in feedingstuffs and between producers of these additives.
Yet after the serious dioxin crisis which affected Belgium and other European countries last summer we cannot just view this issue in terms of competition.
In any case, the precautionary principle requires these products to be clearly traceable at all stages of their marketing.
Also, Amendments Nos 4 and 5 to the new Article 2a must be approved as these will ensure that genetically modified additives are clearly identified as such, thus allowing users to make fully informed decisions.
Mr President, because of the availability of high-technology additives in the feedingstuffs industry, detailed information on their use is needed from the actors, and as we know there are a lot of them, so that we can put a stop to practices which infringe Community law.
This directive on additives in feedingstuffs cannot achieve this on its own.
It reflects the views and concerns of all EU citizens in the area of food safety and quality.
The events of the past couple of years have certainly created an awareness and concern about the real threat to food safety and public health.
The swift action taken by this Parliament must be seen by all citizens as their greatest guarantee for the future, for you have set an agenda on food quality to which Member States must conform.
But even in this crucial area of administration, Parliament reflects its commitment to subsidiarity by encouraging Member States to take on and to face up to their responsibility.
In Agenda 2000, we have in my view prioritised policies that are of direct concern to citizens: food safety, water quality, environmental protection and rural development.
I compliment the new Commissioner responsible for food safety, Mr Byrne.
I am particularly pleased that my own country, Ireland, is to the forefront in the implementation of new food regulations based on the principle of traceability.
A coherent legal framework must be re-established.
I am sure that the Commission can accept the report which, as you know, was approved unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Mr President, we have said in this House time and again since the BSE crisis that feedingstuffs are one of the first and most important factors in safe food production and in consumer health and protection.
We therefore welcome the Commission' s proposal on additives in feedingstuffs.
The Committee on behalf of which I am speaking, namely the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, decided in December, on the assumption that the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture would draft such a good report, that we could waive our opinion.
Nevertheless, I should like to say a few words on the report and express a view on a number of points.
Even if we have new Rules of Procedure in Parliament, and it may well be that, with such an ambitious chairman in the Committee on Agriculture, problems of legislative competence will arise more and more frequently between the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment, one thing is always crystal clear for me in this sort of conflict: cohesion in this Parliament is crucial and the legal basis of a question is crucial as far as I am concerned.
The Treaty of Amsterdam states quite clearly that, where people' s health is concerned, Article 152 is the correct legal base, and may I say to our own Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that it is simply not good enough to look at the Commission' s proposal and say, there is nothing in it about health and consumer protection, so it has nothing to do with health and consumer protection.
Mr Byrne, I ask you to accept and agree to the change of legal basis for the sake of transparency and good cooperation.
What has happened in recent years has brought to our attention the tremendous problems facing not only to the producers of food but also the consumers.
We must resolve this issue, because it is important that consumers should regain confidence in the food they eat.
GMOs are the new challenge facing us.
But I think we should not allow our concerns about GMOs to overshadow our concerns about growth promoters used in animal feed or antibiotics used in compound feed.
One factor behind these developments that has been referred to in this debate is competition - competition between Member States on the cost of the production of food.
The main problem is a financial one, namely who bears the cost?
The Commission proposal is, as some of you have said, rather technical.
The purpose of the Commission's proposal is to harmonise procedures to ensure that no such difference exists.
I would simply point out that the Commission proposal makes no reference to health or consumer protection.
The proposed amendment is technical and cannot be interpreted as having as its primary objective the protection of public health.
I note that Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market also accepts that Article 37 is the appropriate legal base.
I remind Parliament that in Article 152 the primary objective is the protection of health.
Amendments Nos 2 and 3 go much further than the Commission proposal since they aim to introduce additional provisions on genetically modified additives.
The Commission is of the view that it is premature to amend the rules currently laid down by Directive 70/524 on genetically modified additives at this stage.
Instead it is appropriate to await developments in relation to the common position on the amendment to Directive 90/220, which is currently in second reading in Parliament.
I can also assure Parliament that I will ensure that the pertinent provisions of Directive 90/220 are included in the proposal for a recasting of Directive 70/524 that the Commission has proposed in the White Paper on food safety to present to Parliament before July 2001.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are also unacceptable because they give undue preference to copy products by granting them authorisation to be placed into circulation even before an application for authorisation has been submitted.
I can only ask you again to bear in mind the technical nature of the Commission proposal and to wait for the substantive proposal for a new directive on additives in feedingstuffs to address wider issues.
First of all, this matter has been in the pipeline since 1993, so it has not really been sprung on any other commodity producers.
As an overall comment to the suggested amendments here, particularly in relation to the legal base issue, it would be inappropriate, in my opinion, to change the legal base to Article 152 in these circumstances, as it would be very likely to fall foul of the objective criteria that have been laid down by the Court.
Directive 70/524 foresees the issue of labelling in the genetic modification of additives.
Commissioner Byrne, it appears that you want to engage in a test of strength with Parliament.
I would also say in relation to the questions surrounding labelling that this is a complex issue.
I would assure Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf that it is by no means my intention or wish to have any clash or test of strength with Parliament on this issue.
It is my intention, as it has always been, to work in cooperation with Parliament, to ensure that the results we achieve are the very best results.
The best way of dealing with this issue is through the draft legislation before Parliament at the moment, as well as the legislation in the pipeline, rather than in this technical document and in circumstances where the questions that are set out and to be debated in Directive 90/220 may not be fully taken into account.
All of these matters will be addressed in that legislation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
I am therefore in complete agreement with the Commission' s proposal on scrapie.
I should, however, like to add that it only makes sense if we ensure that the new TSE regulation allows a reasonable symbiosis between consumer protection and practicable suggestions.
We therefore need to take consistent account of six or seven points in the coming debate on the TSE proposal, and that of course includes scrapie.
When we discuss the TSE regulation, Commissioner, we must also clarify that we shortly intend to discuss separate proposals under Article 152 as the corresponding legal base for products excluded from this regulation, such as cosmetics, medicinal products or animal feed.
I would be grateful, Commissioner, if you would take these passing comments on board in the report on scrapie and in the general report on the fight against TSEs and bear in mind that we shall be calling you to account on these points.
My task as draftsman of the opinion of the Environment Committee is a very simple one.
I agree with the rapporteur and am able to say that the Environment Committee has asked the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to agree to the Commission proposal.
I have yet to submit my report on TSEs to the House.
Finally, just one more brief comment, Mr Byrne.
We have a new Commission.
The European Parliament has already taken a clear stand on BSE and I think that we should do likewise on all epidemics in animals.
And I should point out that, for the first time in history, a case of scrapie was detected in Austria about four weeks ago.
I therefore welcome the Commission' s initiative to create a new legal base for combating scrapie.
There is no doubt that Mr Böge and the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment are now tremendous experts in this field.
It is very good that they are continuing to monitor this issue on behalf of Parliament because it is extremely important.
It is quite clear that the incidence of scrapie in sheep has been a contributing factor to the overall problem.
I do not want to point the finger at any particular country, but many countries are now facing similar problems to those we have had in the United Kingdom.
If we are not able to achieve that then we will have tremendous trouble in the future.
Considerable progress has been made on our proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation under Article 152 of the Treaty on the prevention and control of TSEs.
I am here today to listen to your opinions on the first step in this process of establishing a truly comprehensive Community system for the control of these diseases.
I have proposed in the proposal at hand to delete all currently existing Community rules on scrapie in sheep and goats and to transpose them to the framework proposal for a regulation.
I look forward to receipt of that document, which will be taken into account in all further considerations in relation to this issue.
Finally, I would say this in relation to the observation about including legislation in annexes and the observation that we must achieve an effective balance between Parliament having a full say and yet at the same time our having speedy resolutions, speedy legislation and speedy amendments to existing legislation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
We will either be able to restore water quality to suit the planet' s ecosystem or we will experience a whole range of adverse events which will threaten the development of certain regions, the living conditions of the inhabitants of other regions and even, more fundamentally, the global balance.
Yet we also know that the deterioration of the oceans will significantly destabilise whole areas of our planet.
In this it said that in a few years' time we must have stopped dumping pollution and halted the increase of pollution and we must have reached a near zero level of toxic and dangerous substances.
The European Union' s water policy is not starting from zero.
However, at first reading this House insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made, like OSPAR, but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs.
For despite these directives and frequent declarations about the effort which must be made in terms of water protection, when we look at the state of the environment in Europe we can see that the objectives have not been achieved.
In many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts.
It is also clear that if we do nothing, our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner.
We have been working on this subject for ten years and a comprehensive approach was only made possible as the result of a hearing arranged and held by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in 1994.
We reduced the 243 proposed amendments in the Environment Committee to 77, but another 30 have been added.
Our line is to work towards realistic objectives and practicable solutions.
In this sense, the proposed amendments tabled by me and other members on behalf of the group represent an improvement on the demands set out in the common position.
I should like to stress quite particularly here that we have already made considerable progress under current national and European water protection laws, however imperfect they are and however little they are complied with in the Member States.
The framework directive on water is a necessary initiative.
Nevertheless, given that the idea of solidarity is central to the process of European construction, this directive must take into account the fact that water resources should be seen as a factor in social cohesion.
However, in Spain and the other southern countries, which have an unusual climate, the management of water resources require political action in order to rationalise their use and other cooperative measures.
Therefore, we believe that this framework directive should advocate a use of water which allows us to overcome territorial imbalances and, to this end, I ask that you support Amendment No 95, which has been presented by our group.
With regard to one of the most controversial points of our debate, the application of tariffs, the Spanish Socialists have been arguing, in accordance with the principle that the polluter should pay, that the directive should propose policies on accessible prices for all levels of consumption.
We want to build a Europe with a sustainable and healthy environment.
However, an environmental Europe cannot, in any circumstances, be built at different speeds, but must be built from a point of view of solidarity.
Mr President, the ecological disaster in the Danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of Europe are and how important water is to us all.
It is important for us to remember that this is a framework.
It is easy for individual countries, for individual sectors of industry, to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days.
There are many opportunities to hide.
The reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come.
The principle also concerns water charging.
The common position has weakened the stand taken by Parliament at first reading.
We have seen vote after vote lost.
Our attempt to improve the environment of Europe has failed.
The unanimity principle was at the root of this debacle.
Some seven years ago, it still looked like the European water policy was going to be sacrificed on the altar of subsidiarity.
This is unusual, but most of these amendments are desperately needed to plug the holes.
The chemical industry and, unfortunately, the European Commission and the Council of Ministers too want to draft a separate risk analysis for each dangerous substance.
This is very time-consuming, and, more importantly, there is no acceptable level of pollution for dangerous chemical substances.
This is why it is so important that the European Parliament declares itself openly in favour of the OSPAR objective of close-to-zero by the year 2020.
The chemical industry and society as a whole have to learn to replace these dangerous chemical substances by harmless substitutes, and if this is impossible, to apply them in closed systems.
The Council's common position is totally inadequate in a number of areas.
We therefore support the proposal to reduce the time allotted for implementing different parts of the directive.
However, some people in our political group think otherwise.
The recent disaster on the Danube serves as a reminder that our rivers are the lifelines of our planet and that pollution does not respect borders.
We have therefore tabled amendments to highlight the importance of the special relationship between agriculture and water, given that water is an essential factor in the occupation and development of the land.
Agricultural needs are clearly much greater in the south and this specific point must be taken into account in the framework directive.
However, we are in Europe experiencing droughts and desertification in certain regions and also floods, which the directive underlines.
We need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which must make the various uses of water compatible with each other.
Yet we also need to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management of water.
The Committee on the Environment' s present proposal to reduce discharges to close-to-zero is, in my view, to be welcomed and worthy of emulation.
We need to rethink and recognise that water is our most important asset and that our responsibility towards it goes far beyond the present generation.
Mr President, it must be some six years ago now that Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz, assisted by Mrs Ursula Schleicher, put in a request and managed to overhaul the water policy in its entirety.
The decision-making process concerning this framework directive on water has reached a crucial stage.
The topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result, we have been able to draft important, more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading.
A very important component, to wit, one third of our drinking water, is extracted from surface water in the Netherlands.
The Netherlands is located downstream, in a delta, which means that the quality of the surface water which heads our way is of key importance.
Everyone should have clean water at their disposal but the availability and good quality of water is not so self-evident, as many have experienced in Southern Europe and are experiencing now in the Danube countries too.
Water is often a source of conflict between countries and peoples.
Too little operational capacity upstream or, in fact, excessive use, can cause problems downstream.
The problem of water is becoming increasingly topical.
In March, the Second World Water Forum will be held in The Hague.
This vision must translate into regional action plans for sustainable water management and water control.
The European Parliament must now opt for a sustainable water policy as a starting point and remain realistic at the same time.
The common position is not ambitious enough.
The OSPAR objectives are now being drawn up.
A list has been compiled, containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment.
Quality has a price, but pollution could well have a much higher price tag in future.
Mr President, Commissioner, my compliments to Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work on the Water Directive.
Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive does indeed, as many speakers have already said, represent an historic chance to simplify and improve the jumble of piecemeal EU regulations and directives and achieve a high level of environmental protection in Europe.
However, I have the impression that the policy in the water framework directive is geared towards deregulation and renationalisation.
We know that the Commission proposal does not go far enough; unfortunately this also applies to the proposal by the Committee on the Environment.
But I think that this is exactly what we have to make up for here in Parliament, in order to demonstrate that we will not allow the credibility of our policy to be lost or compromised.
Mr President, in the small amount of time allotted to me, I would like to welcome the Mrs Lienemann' s report and remind the House of three principles, to which all other principles must be subordinate, which are clearly expressed in the rapporteur' s amendments: water is not a commercial product, but the property of all the peoples of the Union; the ultimate objective is to eliminate all pollutants in surface water and groundwater, and to inform the public so that it can participate in the recuperation of water and not use water excessively given that it is such a precious commodity.
The situation in the north is different from that in the south, and different from the situation in those countries which have the problem of desert areas.
However, there are some amendments which attempt to help the countries of the south, specifically Amendment No 43 which, with regard to the recuperation of costs, also indicates that Member States must take into account the social and environmental conditions of the countries when it comes to decision making.
We cannot allow our European water to be polluted, Mr President, and we must produce a directive which will strengthen the political will of governments to preserve the resource of water, which is so precious to all of us.
As an Irish Member of the European Parliament, coming from a country which has large reserves of rich water, I support the vast majority of the proposals included in this directive.
However, I would now like to look at the areas of difference between Parliament's Committee on the Environment and the Council.
The latter has already brought forward its common position on this matter.
According to the Council the objective of achieving good surface water status should be secured no later than 16 years after the directive enters into force, whereas Parliament's Committee on the Environment would like to see this deadline shortened to ten years.
I see no reason why European Union Member States cannot work to implement the key provisions of this directive in as short a time as possible.
I now turn to the amendments to be tabled before Parliament tomorrow concerning the principle of the recovery of cost of water usage.
The Council in its common position states that the European Union governments must take account of the principle of recovery of the cost of water usage.
No specific target date for the implementation of this principle was included in the common position.
Amendment No 43 seeks to ensure that by the year 2010 water pricing policies in Europe must provide adequate incentives to use water efficiently.
This is politically impractical from an Irish perspective, as indeed it would be from the perspective of other EU Member States such as Portugal, Greece and Spain.
In this connection, I would ask Parliament to support Amendment No 108, in which the words "water pollution caused by individual pollutants" are replaced by "prevention of water pollution through the continuous reduction in discharges" .
The EU' s Ministers for the Environment must therefore stand by their affiliation to the OSPAR Convention, which now already defines what is hazardous to the environment.
The Treaty of Amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention, for the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment.
Clearly, the importance of recognising the economic value of ecological factors in setting prices and making operators accountable through the adoption of incentives for non-polluting systems, seems unquestionable in the light of events that characterise the relationship between economic development and the protection of our environmental heritage, particularly our water resources.
This situation is loudly echoed in many sectors of the economy, and especially in the agricultural sector.
The obligation to develop and consolidate a strategy for integration derives from this notion, with the aim of keeping the management of water resources at the heart of the sustainable economic production model in the light of current conditions.
We must not, with this in mind, pursue a strategy of separating the objective of preventing a deterioration in the state of surface water and groundwater from the objectives of protecting, improving and restoring their quality, as this would create a superfluous hierarchy of priorities detrimental to the overall functioning of interventions and specific measures that target a combined approach and the use of the best available techniques.
Finally, we need to set up a system which prepares an objective list of potentially dangerous substances, using the increased information available on their chemical, physical and biological properties, in such a way as to create an integrated model for intervention at a range of strategic levels in order to protect our water heritage, which is fundamental to us all.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to take the principle of sustainability enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam seriously, then our long-term objective must be to achieve zero inputs in our water because we need to safeguard water so that future generations do not pay the price for our water consumption.
I am firmly convinced that we need a strict, tight timetable in order to work towards our long-term objective.
May I take this opportunity to remind you that previous resolutions concerning the Nitrates Directive have still not been implemented in all Member States, in spite of the fact that there is a common EU resolution.
Adopting this report would have serious consequences for agriculture in the EU if concentrations of, for example, phosphorus and nitrogen could not exceed the background values for these substances in the aquatic environment and if a limit of zero were to be established for pesticides in the aquatic environment.
As a result, agricultural production would move to other countries outside the EU, with consequent high socio-economic and employment costs.
The capitalist world too sends out its pawns in order to gain maximum control over water reservoirs.
What was remarkable about this dossier was the enormous pressure from the Council of Ministers.
They have opted for the weak common position in favour of our Parliament' s more drastic positioning.
We must also now explain what we are doing together and what we want to do together in the future, particularly with the countries which will be joining us.
We hope to conduct this initiative in cooperation with the Member States and in conjunction with the European Parliament.
The Commission will propose that the Member States become involved in this exercise either as part of ad hoc cooperation or a more structured partnership.
We will launch this dialogue on 8 March in Brussels in the presence of 700 young Commission stagiaires.
Mr President, I think I also speak for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that I chair, in expressing my appreciation of this Commission initiative.
Moreover, this initiative is consistent with recommendations made by Parliament itself in its resolution of 18 November.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is music to my ears to hear you use the word 'citizen' so often.
As you know, there are problems which not only concern this House but also the European officials who are also European citizens.
Mr Dupuis, first of all I attach a great deal of importance in my public life to the word 'citizen' .
It is one of the most wonderful words in a democracy and must be used.
The story went that an official in the Commission had apparently told an Austrian businessman that, because he was Austrian, he would possibly be excluded from being able to participate in a scientific development project together with businesses in other countries, including Denmark.
Generally speaking, there are other lessons to be learnt from what is happening in Austria.
I firmly believe in the democratic force and value of debate, particularly to fight against demagoguery.
Commissioner Barnier, you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of Europe.
Mr Beazley, my answer is clearly yes but that is no surprise.
Mr President, firstly I would like to compliment the Commission on its approach.
My second question is of a critical nature.
The European Commission has just issued a proposal on transparency.
If I compare this with the transparency proposal which pertains to legislation in the Netherlands, then the European model is vastly overshadowed by the Dutch model, and that proposal has met with a lot of criticism in the Netherlands.
The group of representatives is currently meeting in Brussels and I will try to join them as soon as possible.
The documents will in the main be open working documents.
However, I believe we must also make the effort to get as close as possible to the people.
I would like to invite him to my own region of Yorkshire, a major European region that is a full participant in the single European market and a major recipient of European structural funding.
In some Member States it is not just a matter of providing information to a public that is not as well informed as it might be.
I forgot to mention my intention to go before the national parliaments, as I have already done, not only by meeting their representatives here but by going to see them in situ.
With regard to the dialogue with our citizens, it is not a question of propaganda or marketing, nor even of communication.
I hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of Europe, Commissioner Barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears.
In your country, Mr Bonde, like everywhere else, I believe people are keen for the internal market to work properly under the fairest conditions of competition and movement of goods and people.
We are proposing that decisions on certain policies or measures involving taxation or social protection and social security should be taken by qualified majority voting when there is a direct link with the proper operation of the internal market.
We will therefore conduct this dialogue with the towns and regions.
Mr Berthu, the Helsinki mandate is clear and we are working within this.
In the context of the humanitarian aid provided by the Union and the efforts of its envoy Bernard Kouchner, will the Commission say what measures have been taken to safeguard the women of Kosovo's right to motherhood and the health of pregnant women, women in childbirth and babies?
Mr President, the Commission is conscious of the very difficult situation concerning health and health facilities in Kosovo, not just for pregnant women but across the board.
However, the situation is hardly better for other parts of the population.
However, efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self-sufficient healthcare system in the province.
UNMIK has already taken a significant role in this field.
Secondly, under the reconstruction programme, urgent intervention at the hospital in Mitrovica has already been initiated with a EUR 1 million rehabilitation programme.
However, the Commission is maintaining its efforts with the support of UNMIK for this project.
Under the European Community' s damage assessment, estimated costs of the reconstruction of healthcare facilities and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health houses amount to EUR 4 million.
As a result of that, a parallel health care system was put in place through the Mother Teresa Society.
Those were cases in which women who during the hostilities, or before the hostilities, tragically killed their own children.
Commissioner, I would like to thank you for your response to the Member' s first question and the supplementary question.
However, I still have some contacts in Kosovo who have informed me that food packages which are distributed by ECHO, among others, are often of inferior quality.
My second question pertains to the reconstruction of the hospital in Mitrovica.
The particular difficulties in Mitrovica - for example, it is not just a question of Albanian patients having difficulty getting to hospital, Albanian staff have had difficulty working there - are particularly acute problems.
Question No 37 by (H-0029/00): Subject: Turkish blockade of Armenia Given that the European Union is actively promoting social, economic and political relations with Armenia through the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed on 12 October 1999, what steps is the Commission taking to persuade the Turkish Government to lift the economic blockade of Armenia?
The Commission supports any effort aimed at the settlement of the disputes between Turkey and Armenia and regrets that there has not yet been any normalisation of relations between these two countries.
In the present political circumstances it is however unrealistic to imagine that the border between Armenia and Turkey, as well as the one between Armenia and Azerbaijan could be opened without settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
My question therefore is this: will the Commission make this one of the conditions in order to improve future discussions?
The key issue is to support the efforts of the OSCE Minsk group to find a settlement to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and we stand ready to help in any way we can.
Let me relate my answer specifically to the question of Turkish accession to the European Union.
The situation of Turkey's relations with its neighbours will, as the honourable Member asks, be closely examined in the framework of the pre-accession strategy.
Question No 38 by (H-0040/00): Subject: Implications for human rights of the construction of the Ilisu Dam in Turkey Given that Turkey has recently been granted applicant country status, what is the Commission's view of the implications for human rights of the construction of the Ilisu Dam, given the massive displacement of the Kurdish and the other people of the region that will result?
The Commission has no information regarding the impact of the construction of the Ilisu Dam on the population of the region.
We will, however, consider raising the matter with the Turkish authorities, together with other issues concerning regional development policies in the framework of the new pre-accession strategy for Turkey.
We thank Mr Patten for having replied on behalf of the Commission.
As I have said before in this House, the Commission is convinced that the Convention must be able, if necessary, to adapt and develop these rights in view of current circumstances, particularly technological and social changes.
However, given the mandate and the final objective of the text to be submitted to the Heads of State and Government, this power must be exercised with caution and on a case-by-case basis.
It may also be envisaged that some economic and social rights could be guaranteed only for citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals meeting certain conditions.
It is not possible at this initial stage of the process of drawing up the Charter to prejudge its content in more detail.
As I have also said before to this House, the Commission is favourable to inserting the Charter in the EU Treaty.
However, we are fully aware that the final decision on this matter will fall to the Heads of State and Government.
In its opinion on the holding of an Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaties, the Commission noted that the European Council must decide during the year 2000 on the inclusion of certain items on the IGC agenda, in particular the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Commissioner, it is quite significant that at the beginning of this new century people in Europe, men and women, are being called upon to redefine their rights and obligations.
I listened to your general guidelines and I would like to ask you what is the position of children, as entities in their own right, in the Commission' s plans for the new model of society in the twenty-first century.
Mr President, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, in my opinion, and as Mr Prodi said this morning, the drawing up of the Charter is an exercise with great political significance.
I understand your concern about the rights of children.
Many elements of our work, and particularly of my work as Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs, involve protecting the rights of children.
This is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies fully.
Each Member State is principally responsible for defining its responsibilities towards children.
As for the EU' s responsibility, the rights of children must be recognised in the Charter according to the areas in which the Union can give added value to the promotion of the social and economic situation and even the citizenship, in its broadest sense, of children.
Mr President, I have had the privilege of hearing the Commissioner a number of times on this issue and I very much agree with his approach.
It is very important that the people feel engaged in this process.
It is the policy of the Commission to promote an open and wide debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, not only with non-governmental organisations but also with the citizens in a project as far-reaching as the Charter is.
Question No 40 by (H-0095/00): Subject: Articles 6.1, 7.1 and 7.2 of the Treaty on European Union Article 6.1 of the Treaty states that the Union is based on principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It is clear from statements over the past years that Jörg Haider and the Freedom Party do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms with respect to third country nationals and minority groups living in Austria.
Therefore, will the Commission state when they intend to propose under Article 7.1 that there is 'the existence of a serious and persistent breach by a Member State of the principles mentioned in Article 6.1.' , and urge the Council acting by qualified majority to suspend certain rights deriving from the application of this Treaty to Austria including the voting rights of the representative of Austria in the Council?
The Commission confirmed then, as it does today, that it shares the concerns underlying the Portuguese Presidency' s statement of 1 February 2000.
Secondly, the Commission reiterated and reiterates again its commitment to continue fulfilling its duty as guardian of the Treaties, specifically with regard to Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union.
I think that it is obvious that conditions have not been met which would apply to the current situation in Austria.
As a matter of fact I think that I am right in saying that we all hope that these conditions of a serious and persistent breach of human rights and of democracy are never fulfilled, either in Austria or in any other Member State.
I would like to assure you of my personal commitment and of that of the Commission, as stated once again by President Prodi this morning, to doing everything to ensure that we do not have to apply the mechanism stated in Article 7.
On the other hand, the new Austrian Government' s programme reaffirms its commitment to defend democracy and human rights.
I am referring to the position the Austrian Government will adopt at the Council with regard to the Commission' s proposals for the establishment of an action programme to combat discrimination and for two directives.
These are significant texts, adopted in accordance with Article 13 of the Treaty, which gave the Community jurisdiction to fight discrimination on the grounds of race, ethnic origin, sex etc.
Therefore I am fully confident that the Commission will be able to follow very closely the evolution of the situation in Austria, as in any other Member State.
If any concrete case of persistent violation of human rights perpetrated by the government of one Member State occurs, we will be entirely capable to react and to act accordingly.
I also rely not only on the cooperation of the Members of the European Parliament, but also on the cooperation of non-governmental organisations, which have always made an important contribution to the anti-discrimination policy of the Commission.
The protection of ethnic minorities and of minorities that speak a specific language is an element of the programme and of the two directives that the Commission has put before the Council.
I sincerely hope that all Member States will take the opportunity of this action plan and these two directives that the Commission has presented to the Council to reiterate in clear and concrete terms their approval for the action plan and for the directives and their commitment to fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia wherever it might occur.
The environmental problems stemming from the incineration and the dumping of such waste are mainly attributable to the presence of hazardous substances (lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chrome, PVC and halogenated flame retarders).
Consequently, the Commission decided to prepare a proposal on the subject and, since 1997, has been involved in discussions with the parties concerned.
I should just like to add that my intention is that the Commission should be able to present a proposal on the dumping of electrical and electronic waste before Easter.
My question specifically concerned the reaction of the US Government to the text of the preliminary draft.
I note in particular that when you talk about the international law with which the text would not be compatible, you are referring in fact to the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
It is important for me to have a chance to answer it.
It is clear that in a process such as this, where we are discussing the disposal of a considerable stream of both electrical and electronic waste in Europe, there is an on-going dialogue between the different parties concerned.
However, I do want to listen to all the points of view.
Question No 42 by (H-0026/00): Subject: Gender and environment Practically all the contributors involved in the Rio and Kyoto processes - individual organisations, civic action groups, governments, the World Bank, the UN and relief organisations - believed that women should take a greater part in decision-making on the environment.
Through the current programme, which covers the period 1997 to 2000, we are endeavouring to encourage a workplace culture in which the value of both men and women is integrated and where gender-specific needs are taken into consideration.
The new Commission's own objective is to double the number of women managers before the end of its term of office.
The same line is being pursued with particular vigour in the Directorate-General for the Environment, where nearly 60 per cent of directors and 20 per cent of unit heads are women.
Our policy is to encourage the recruitment of women to administrative posts in order to create a reserve of suitable candidates for future promotion to managerial positions.
With respect to the general principle of incorporating a perspective of equality, as you know, this principle is included in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Article 3 of the Treaty states that, in all the activities referred to in this Article, the Community shall aim to eliminate inequalities, and to promote equality, between women and men.
Question No 43 by (H-0045/00): Subject: The Boyne Estuary and the Drogheda Port Company The Boyne Estuary is designated a Special Protection Area (SPA) under the Wild Birds Directive and is under consideration for designation as a Special Area of Conservation under the Habitats Directive, as it is an area of international importance.
The Boyne Estuary is designated a special protection area under the Wild Birds Directive.
That means that any development that takes place in or near the Boyne Estuary and that is likely to affect the special protection area must take account of the protection criteria for the area laid down in the Community' s Habitats Directive.
Even the area designated by the Commissioners as a special protection area has been destroyed.
The first legal challenge followed the start of work on the port of development in early autumn 1999 without the compensatory habitat improvements being in place.
As MEPs are well aware, in the course of last year a joint text was issued by our predecessors in the Commission, Ritt Bjerregaard and Monika Wulf-Mathies concerning the relationship between the Structural Funds, money from the Structural Funds and protection under the Habitats and Birds Directives.
The involvement of regional and local authorities in the Community' s action is, as you know, one of the essential elements of the new post-Berlin Structural Funds Regulation.
As for the monitoring and management of these programmes, I have not yet received the national provisions proposed by the Greek Government pursuant to Article 8 of the new Regulation.
In the current negotiations on this third Community support framework, I have asked for the provisions on the partnership principle to be fully respected, with regard to both regional and local authorities and to non-governmental organisations and associations.
Having said that, I thought your question related more to the partnership issue.
However, turning to the substance, I should like to ask the Commissioner to bear in mind the following: that for all national and regional programmes, Greece is regarded as a region which expresses itself - at the level of its partnership relations with the European Union - via its central administration, its central government.
Mr Theonas, I can only repeat what I said to Mr Alavanos.
On Mrs Isler Béguin' s first point I must remind her that the improvement of the scientific basis and technical capacities of the regions in order to increase their competitiveness was one of the Community' s priorities during the previous programming period.
The support allocated by the Structural Funds for technological cohesion, or research and technical developments, within the Community support frameworks for that period is estimated at approximately EUR 7.5 billion.
With regard to your specific concern, I can say that, as in the previous period, the Commission does not intend to directly finance through the Structural Funds research and technical development in the area of nuclear fusion or fission.
Consequently, even though this is not a Community priority, a Member State can decide to finance research and development projects in the civil nuclear technology area, provided that these projects contribute to regional development.
I was able to verify this, for example, during a visit I made to the Azores in Portugal a few days ago with regard to a natural source of renewable energy.
As a result, the Commission services are not systematically informed of all projects selected.
As has happened in the past, the Member States are required to provide answers when the Commission questions them or asks for clarification.
Mr MacCormick, the Commission has no plans to amend the rules concerning additionality which were stipulated, for the 2000-2006 period, in Article 11 of the general Regulation on the Funds.
Provided that the Member State does not reduce all its own expenditure, the Structural Funds are added to the national expenditure and the principle of additionality is therefore respected.
As for the budgetary provisions within the Member States, between central government and internal autonomous regions or countries, these are determined according to exclusively national considerations and are therefore not affected by additionality within the meaning defined in the rules.
We are left with Article 11(1) which says that the appropriations of the funds may not replace public or other equivalent structural expenditure by the Member States.
If Mr MacCormick would be satisfied with my partial agreement with his reasoning, I will give him a full answer in writing by restating the legal bases of both Article 11 in general and Article 11(1) in particular.
I also know the particular problems in your constituency in Scotland where disputes and discussions are occurring on these subjects.
I would point out to the Commissioner that Mr Aznar is the President of the Spanish Government.
As I did not have an answer, I wrote to the Minister for Economic and Financial Affairs on 14 December.
I do believe it is important to say that Andalusia is going to receive 50% more within the Community support framework and that Spain also holds the record for the use of the Structural Funds, which means that the distribution is based strictly on the implementing regulations and is decentralised by means of the regional development plans and different Community support frameworks.
Having said this, we must accept that elections are always taking place in the countries of the European Union.
Questions Nos 48 to 50 will be replied to in writing.
Question No 51 by (H-0049/00): Subject: New premises for the OHIM At present the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (OHIM) is still operating from the same temporary premises, even though its new building was opened in June 1999.
The honourable Member asked a question on this topic in November 1999 and I would like to refer him to the answer given at the time.
Furthermore, I have asked the president of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market, that is to say the Office in Alicante, to comment further on this new question and I can, as a result, inform the honourable Member as follows, on behalf of the Office: The Office is not yet ready to move into the new building.
If you had been there, I am sure you would have been ashamed.
The opening of a building which was not finished, in the middle of an election campaign, which eight months after the opening can still not be occupied, makes the Spanish Government look ridiculous.
I am not worried that the Spanish Government should look foolish, because at the end of the day it was their responsibility, but it does worry me that the Commission should look foolish by endorsing, through its presence, this absurd event.
What I can say is that I hope that this building will now be occupied as soon as possible.
I hope that this building will then be occupied.
We do not intend to go in the direction of what is termed in French un procès d'intention.
As far as I am concerned, all expenditure is real.
As the author is not present, Question No 52 lapses.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 53 and 54 will be taken together.
Question No 54 by (H-0117/00): Subject: Alcohol monopoly and the internal market What action does the Commission intend to take in order to prevent the extension of the State alcohol monopoly apparently being planned by Sweden, and the associated import restrictions, and to ensure that the rules of the single market are applied?
This derogation from the principle of the free movement of goods lapses on 30 June of this year.
Sweden now wants to extend this measure by another five years, as this would be necessary to protect public health.
Sweden has now had sufficient time - since its accession to the Union - to adapt its policies to a situation where such import restrictions do not exist.
This certainly does not mean that I do not share the concern in Sweden surrounding the possible health problems which can be caused by alcohol abuse.
My second question concerns the whole policy on alcohol.
If we had considered these aspects in their overall context, then it might have been easier to carry on a dialogue with Sweden.
These countries are in the process of taking measures in preparation of free access of alcoholic products in the year 2003.
However, in the case of Sweden, the situation is different.
But in that case, not only Sweden, but all EU countries, should then be subject to a total ban on alcohol.
I gather that Mr Posselt has hinted at the fiscal aspects of this matter.
I also happen to know that the high tax on alcohol products in Sweden goes back to the year 1638 and that since then, the sale of alcohol products has accounted for a significant portion of the state' s tax revenue.
The Commission has to take a decision on whether the matter is closed or whether it should refer it to the European Court of Justice.
My reply is perhaps not satisfactory right now, but I would like to assure the honourable Member that the Commission will take that decision within a matter of weeks.
It will no doubt engage in a discussion both with Parliament and the Council on this state of affairs, which indicates that there are quite a lot of differences in excise rates between Member States.
For example - I believe the honourable Member referred to this - no excise taxes are applied on wine in France, whereas they are applied in the United Kingdom.
The question specifically refers to the relation between excise taxes and the alcohol content of the goods subject to excise tax.
Although this leads to a disparity in excise taxes between Sweden and other Member States of the Union - and that by itself increases cross-border smuggling of alcoholic products - it is a legitimate instrument to decrease the consumption of alcohol.
May I assure Mr MacCormick and other Members of this Parliament that the present situation where excise taxes differ between Member States is indeed something which is not conducive to the proper functioning of the internal market.
If one looks at petrol, for example, one sees that excise taxes in Germany are different from those of Holland, and consequently Dutch motorists cross the border and fill up their tanks in Germany.
This is an area of unanimity, as Mr MacCormick knows, and unless all Member States agree on the equalisation of excise taxes, it will not happen.
Once again, towards the end of this year, the Commission will forward a report on the state of affairs on excise taxes, and I am obviously available for any discussion with Parliament on that report.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions 55 to 114 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, the situation regarding fresh water in Europe is not as serious as in other parts of the world but, in general terms, it is a fact that the demand for water has continued to grow and its quality has continued to decrease.
To this we must add the water pollution problems which afflict the potential new Member States in the East.
I believe that no country, no government and, of course, no member of this Parliament can fail to recognise the need for this directive in order to end the current fragmentation of water policy and facilitate the implementation of a programme of specific measures for each river basin.
The development of this directive has been difficult and complex, involving diverse interests and divided opinions.
However, it is almost impossible to understand and correctly assess all the different situations and expectations.
Therefore, it seems essential to us that the directive complies, in practice, with the obligation laid down in article 164 of the Treaty on the need for Community legislation to take account of the diversity of its regions.
In accordance with this principle, the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party will oppose Amendments Nos 4 (Recital 21), 13 and 49 (Article 11(d)), since they imply a serious limitation in an area of management exclusive to the Member States, that is, the regulation of water resources.
It would be very difficult for the Community to determine the conditions for the regulation of water in the different regions, given the different internal balances which are always in play and which require profound knowledge of the different areas and the relevant interests.
We must clearly set water prices which promote its efficient use but which, at the same time, safeguard the competitivity of the producing industries in the less-favoured regions and do not hinder their legitimate development.
I would lastly like to refer to the amendments on dangerous substances which establish that we must achieve a zero, or close to zero, degree of pollution.
I hope that, once again, this House will vote with a sense of reality and respect for the principle of subsidiarity, seeking a suitable balance between the environmental objectives and economic and social considerations, the three essential elements in achieving the sustainable development which we all wish to see so much.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is a very important directive.
But the key issue is, in my opinion, planning how to restore water tables, the natural flow of rivers and the natural content of lakes, which must be carried out within the ten year period we have in mind.
Mr President, here we have what is basically a good measure.
The prevention of pollution and water deterioration has to be right as well as the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood.
The concept of continuing reduction as in Amendment No 58 is much better.
It is also a point of departure because a new framework of reference has been created, into which future European legislation on water will converge and flow.
The rapporteur' s proposal is one which, on the whole, I would wish to support but I would like to express some praise for it and then two concerns.
My first concern is about the timetable laid down in the directive: it may prove to be a straitjacket although I think that it also represents a powerful challenge.
Paying a fair price for water may also result in injustices.
The recent catastrophe on the Danube has illustrated, as in a nightmare, that a long-term policy and strategy for the ecological protection of our water, however much it may cost, is not a luxury of the rich but a necessity for civilisation.
Mr President, first of all, we want to denounce the fathomless hypocrisy of those who claim to be concerned about the environment and water, but whose criminal activities such as the attacks against Yugoslavia, aside from leaving thousands dead and wounded, have also brought about huge ecological disasters for water resources too, making them not only unusable but even extremely hazardous.
That is not only because it is about guaranteeing sufficient water resources but also because it is, to a large degree, about safeguarding water resources against pollution so that we can also have clean drinking water in the future.
We are all entitled to clean drinking water.
I also think it is important that we should put pressure on the Member States to devise the necessary action programmes more quickly than is proposed in the common position.
In this regard, too, I think that the 2010 deadline is appropriate.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for some excellent work in drafting this important directive.
The event proves that in some countries applying for EU membership the environmental norms and environmental thinking are still light years behind the EU.
In Finland surface waters are very clean.
The production of so-called artificial groundwater is an ecological means of filtering a clean supply of fresh surface water through to the groundwater reserves.
The directive must not be allowed to endanger this work.
Deviating from the Council' s common position, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is also attempting to restrict further the facilities for the transfer of water.
Mr President, Commissioner, water is a precious natural asset, a vital necessity, and it is our duty to protect it.
I think it essential to have a framework directive on water policy in the European Union, which will be the basic legal instrument for improving the quality and proper management of water resources, and I congratulate the rapporteur on her attempt to address this thorny issue and take due account of all the points of view.
In recent years, climate change has compelled Mediterranean countries to face serious problems of flooding or lack of rain.
We agree with the common position but we also accept several of the amendments tabled, whose aim is to improve it.
In spite of these remarks however, I believe our common objective of sustainable use of water resources can be maintained.
Mr President, Commissioner, the measures contained in this directive range from drafting water management plans, comprehensive information and hearing rights, and close cooperation between the Member States, to combating water pollution caused by individual pollutants.
I am aware, and the previous speaker highlighted this, that there are States in the European Union that have problems with water.
Mr President, Commissioner, we should be pleased that this directive has already reached second reading.
However, I must say that I am not over-pleased because I believe that this directive is not of great quality, it is going to be very difficult to implement and has many shortcomings.
In the same way, this damage and these tragedies which are happening, as in Romania, are not the problem of the legislative, but of the executive and of the governments.
Mr President, through the consolidation of existing directives this framework directive establishes the basic principle of a sustainable water policy in the European Union.
It is a framework for the protection and management of our water - surface, ground, transitional and coastal - through the establishment of river basin districts at national and, in our case in Ireland, cross-border level.
We have no difficulty with the "polluter pays" principle in relation to the recovery of costs on water usage at industrial, commercial and agricultural level.
Meters could be viewed as a very important tool in water management by the new river basin districts, to help the elimination of water wastage and for the proper planning of future requirements.
Water is a scarce and precious natural resource.
Ideally, I would like Amendment No 45 to fall tomorrow so that the common position on Article 9 would hold on water charges.
That would allow for subsidiarity on a cost policy for water charges, with each Member States drawing up its own scheme, so long as the principles of this directive on incentives for sustainable and efficient use of water are fully protected.
If Amendment No 45 does not fall, I will have to move an oral amendment tomorrow to ensure that Member States may grant exemptions to the provisions of this article in order to allow a basic level of water use for domestic purposes before contributions to the recovery of cost of water services.
All legislation must be enforceable and be based on the general principle of political acceptance.
I believe that access to clean drinking water without charge is a basic human right in the developed as well as the developing world.
Mr President, Commissioner, at this point in the debate I am going to insist on certain aspects which, from an agronomic point of view, and since I come from a southern country, I consider to be absolutely essential to this directive.
These include, for example, costs and transfers.
One of the most significant transfers - the Tajo-Segura transfer - which has been in use for many years, almost 30 years, has an allowance of 658 hm3 per year.
The largest volume transferred in one year has been 453 and the average volume over twenty years has been over 200.
We cannot be prohibited from carrying out transfers when our economy and the development of our regions depend on it.
I will not tackle the issue of quality and the best available technologies, because I believe that we will return to a discussion of this directive.
Take good note: in this diverse Europe, which we are building in a spirit of mutual cooperation, we have to find diverse solutions, not single solutions.
I therefore appeal to the common sense of the Commission, the Council and this House so that, when voting, they do not impose uniformity on the different countries of Europe in areas where subsidiarity is required.
Many of them are based upon the very constructive, informal discussions which have taken place between Parliament and the Council in connection with the first reading.
The Commission can approve 72 of the 108 amendments, either in their entirety, partially or in principle.
With a view to these forthcoming negotiations, I would therefore urge Parliament to vote in favour of an ambitious position.
Firstly, I should like to mention some of my most important arguments.
Allow me now to comment on some of the areas in a little more detail.
I therefore welcome Amendments Nos 6, 10, 14, 24, 58, 60 and 88 .
The Commission cannot, on the other hand, approve Amendment No 19, in which hazardous substances are defined differently than in OSPAR.
The Commission can also, in principle, approve Amendment No 60, according to which a timetable is required for implementing the Commission' s proposal to limit discharges of prioritised substances.
Amendment No 59 introduces requirements to the effect that the list of prioritised substances should continually be reviewed.
The desire expressed in Amendments Nos 60 and 93 for a list of goals and a list of substances for which no adequate data is available cannot be approved.
I can wholeheartedly support the demand that the price of water should be set at a level which creates incentives to use water resources in a sustainable way.
I also support the demand for a suitable contribution from each sector to cover own costs.
I can therefore partly, and in principle, approve Amendments Nos 43-46, together with Amendment No 85.
I therefore support the overall thrust of Amendment No 105, which is in line with the Commission' s original proposal.
We are aware of the fact that the price of water and water services is a complicated issue and that account must be taken not only of environmental goals but also of social and economic goals.
We intend shortly to issue a communication from the Commission on precisely this question.
A period of ten years, as proposed in Amendments Nos 24 and 26, among others, is, on the other hand, too short.
The proposal must also include more stringent criteria for establishing lesser environmental objectives and for extending deadlines in connection with heavily modified or artificial bodies of water.
This applies to Amendments Nos 6, 24, 25, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 78, 80, 102 and 104.
To comply with the demands in Amendments Nos 27 and 29, to the effect that the Commission should approve every extension, would be going too far, and these cannot be approved.
Another important area is protection of the groundwater.
The new definition in Amendment No 72 is, however, too strict and cannot be applied for this purpose.
I would propose that Amendment No 92 should be incorporated into a broader solution.
The good status which is required under this proposal ought to guarantee that the demand for surface water of good quality is fulfilled.
This part of Amendment No 41 cannot, therefore, be approved.
This approach and its scope, which the Commission can in principle approve, are defined by Amendments Nos 22 and 47.
These parts of Amendments Nos 49 and 87 can, therefore, be approved.
The proposal already specifies that water must be abstracted in accordance with the ecological needs in the river basin district concerned.
These parts of Amendments Nos 49 and 87 cannot, therefore, be approved.
The Commission approves Amendment No 76 to the effect that radioactive substances are explicitly to be included in the proposal.
To summarise, the Commission is able to approve 72 amendments, either in their entirety, partially or in principle.
The following amendments cannot be approved: 1, 4, 9, 11, 13, 15, 19, 23, 39, 40, 51, 59, 61, 64, 66, 70, 71, 71, 72, 74, 77, 79, 81, 83, 87, 89, 90, 91, 95, 97, 98, 100, 101, 103, 106 and 107.
Finally, I want to say that I welcome the efforts which Parliament has made to try to solve the questions on which the Council takes other views.
A number of obstacles remain, but I am convinced that, as the legislative work progresses, we shall achieve our common goal of creating a water policy we can be proud of.
I would like to hear the Commissioner's view on Amendment No 45.
Thank you, Mrs Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m.
rapporteur. (FR) Mr President, we have already had the opportunity, at the first reading, to examine this report and I was given to believe in committee that there was a broad consensus within this House.
And so the debates taking place today focus on two major issues: firstly, comitology, an ongoing debate within this House, but Parliament wished to implement policies settled rather by management committees or advisory committees which give the Commission some flexibility and which do not give the Council too much scope to obstruct and have their intergovernmental philosophy prevail over the Community philosophy which we are here to stand up for within the European Parliament.
Let me point out that Parliament is asking for 850 million ecus in appropriations, not a vast sum in the Community budget, and that the current proposals are for 613 million ecus.
I would, however, like to point out that the Council has plenty of time to formulate its ideas and that it is submitting its proposals to us only a few months before the fateful date.
As for us, we our bound by the terms of the texts: a maximum of four months.
I therefore hope, firstly, that our fellow Members will support us in the conciliation - but votes on this area are always very much in agreement - but also that the Council and the Commission will manage to listen to us and that we shall each take a step towards the other.
It is better firstly because the framework proposal made LIFE I more rigorous, more transparent and more rational.
Thirdly, the fact that the common position has for the first time introduced upgrading and planning for coastal areas as one of LIFE-Environment' s priorities is an extremely positive step.
In spite of all its virtues though, LIFE III' s regulation fails in what is obviously the most important aspect of determining a financial instrument' s impact, which is its budget.
By persisting with their proposal of EUR 613 million as a reference amount for 2000 - 2004, and by refusing to accept the European Parliament' s proposal of EUR 850 million, the Commission and the Council are taking a decision which we do not feel is based on the same criteria of rationality and justice that they introduced, and rightly so, for other measures in LIFE III.
Firstly, LIFE is the only direct financial instrument which is designed to promote environmental policy within the European Union.
We therefore feel it is crucial that as Amendments Nos 5 and 6 seek to establish as objectives which LIFE-Environment should achieve a plan for the sustainable management of ground water and surface water, as well as for reducing greenhouse gases, they should be adopted.
I cannot fathom this at all and expressly call upon all my fellow MEPs to support Mrs Lienemann' s motion on raising the funding to EUR 850 million.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, LIFE is the European Union' s most important instrument and indeed its only financial instrument dedicated exclusively to the environment.
The common position stipulates a total appropriation of EUR 613 million for the period 2000-2004.
An investment in natural resources, of course, but also in employment, since it has been demonstrated that an active environmental policy generated new jobs, as shown particularly by the great success of LIFE, a success with NGOs, businesses, local authorities and third countries.
More than one third of the 8,500 requests received meet the required conditions and it has been possible to cofinance approximately 1,300 projects between 1992 and 1998.
A success which Parliament wishes and intends to see perpetuated, and this is why we also support amendment 14 outlining the fourth phase of the LIFE project.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am probably going to repeat things my fellow Members have said but I believe that, as far as the Council is concerned, the thing is to repeat over and over what we think of LIFE.
I shall therefore reiterate that, as the rapporteur has already said quite clearly, LIFE is the only specific financial instrument for the implementation of the European Union' s policy on the environment.
This instrument is absolutely essential since it provides the impetus for truly innovative actions in favour of nature and the environment in Europe, which are adopted and expanded upon by the Member States.
This financial instrument is, furthermore, deliberately democratic since it is accessible to both governmental and non-governmental organisations.
Through the associations, then, LIFE is a facility that can be used by the European citizen directly, and for the benefit of actions in the interest of the community.
Several million NGO members - millions, I say - recognise in LIFE the Union' s determination to build up an ambitious policy in favour of our natural heritage.
LIFE is, moreover, the fundamental instrument of the Natura 2000 network in Europe into which the Member States have put a lot, pursuant to Community directives on the habitats of rare and endangered fauna and flora and on migratory birds, and which makes it possible to set up the protection of sites of high biological value in our States.
This is a pity because everyone within this Chamber knows that LIFE is a financial instrument which is not sufficient to carry out the projects submitted by Member States, a good many of which are turned down due to lack of funds.
Let us not forget that, to date, LIFE amounts to only EUR 100 million per annum, i.e.
For the record, the budget for agriculture, which has a real impact on the environment, amounts, as we all know, to EUR 37 billion.
The first sustainable development projects are unquestionably those.
I would also like to congratulate the services of the Commission, since the evaluation, control and monitoring of the LIFE programme provide a reasonable guarantee with regard to the selection and execution of projects.
Of the EUR 1 919 million requested, only EUR 784 million have been granted.
Now the financial statement shows only EUR 613 million to cover more countries and competences.
Parliament has proposed EUR 850 million, but the document repeats the initial proposal of EUR 613 million.
Commissioner, we must be consistent.
The cost of maintaining the environment, which we all enjoy, must be met by all of us, and the LIFE programme is the only financial instrument aimed exclusively at the environment and whose projects have generally been effective.
The funding of activities for the implementation, adaptation and development of Community policy in the environment sector and the incorporation of the environment in other policies, particularly ones that contribute towards sustainable development, are central elements of the regulation we are to vote upon.
As regards the financing package for the implementation of LIFE over the next five years, I wholeheartedly support the increase from EUR 613 million to EUR 850 million proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Lienemann.
Besides, we cannot remain indifferent towards the increased challenges in areas around the Union or towards addressing very acute environmental protection problems in the applicant countries.
Consequently, I consider that support for environmental action under the LIFE financial instrument will help to further Community policy in the environmental sector and can contribute substantially to fulfilling the Community' s mission of achieving a high level of environmental protection and improvement.
The Commission welcomes, above all, Amendments Nos 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13, which apply to the Committee procedures.
In these cases, Parliament has fully taken account of the objections which the Commission had to the common position.
With regard to Amendments Nos 5 and 6, I want to emphasise that projects for the sustainable exploitation of groundwater and surface water, together with projects for reducing forms of air pollution which contribute to the greenhouse effect, are to a large degree covered by LIFE.
Amendment No 12 requires a larger budget than that stated in the common position.
I am also convinced that LIFE has great potential.
The amount quoted in Amendment No 12 does not, however, tally with the budget set on the basis of Agenda 2000.
At this stage, the Commission is keeping to the amount which has been set in the common position.
With regard to Amendment No 3, which we did not approve at first reading, I want to emphasise that each programme has its own objectives, conditions under which it may be applied for and costs which make it eligible for aid.
It is therefore meaningless, and often impossible, directly to transfer projects from LIFE to other instruments.
Nor can the Commission approve Amendment No 14, which is contrary to the Commission' s right of initiative.
Finally, I want to repeat that I am convinced that LIFE will be an effective instrument in support of development and the implementation of the Community' s environmental policy.
Parliament has contributed greatly to improving this instrument.
I am convinced that you share my wish that it should be possible to adopt the regulation as soon as possible, especially in view of the fact that there are great expectations in the Member States and in other countries, especially among the applicant States which are now being given the opportunity to participate in LIFE.
Thank you, Mrs Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The basis is monetary cooperation, which has since been followed up by macro-economic cooperation and cooperation on employment policy.
Economic stability is a reason for growth and can provide high employment.
But the reverse is also the case: a well-developed policy on social security can contribute to high employment and to increased growth.
In other words, social security is a factor of production.
The labour market is also changing.
Women are venturing into the labour market in ever greater numbers.
We are creating a common model, but retaining the principle of subsidiarity.
This social convergence is a process which will continue for a long period.
Parliament must therefore be involved in the work - not by being part of the high-level group, but by enabling parliamentary representatives to track the work of the latter and come up with proposals as to how the process is to be carried on.
In our report, we have highlighted the importance of combating poverty within the EU and of finding indicators as soon as possible so that we can make progress in this area.
Parallel to this European strategy of social convergence, a concrete plan for legislative work in the social sphere is required, together with proposals for framework agreements in the context of the dialogue between employers and employees, accompanied by a concrete timetable.
Social convergence is also needed before the enlargement of the Union, partly in order to strengthen the social model and partly to combat the risk of social dumping.
The Commission ought to consider devising a special action programme concerning social policy in connection with enlargement.
Certainly, it resembles Amendment No 1, but Amendment No 14 is better.
The EU is also a union for employment and social justice.
By means of this report, Parliament wishes to make its contribution to reinforcing the social dimension of European society.
We hope that the Council and the Commission will take this contribution seriously and include it in future social policy.
The mutual interdependence of issues pertaining to the national economy, employment policy, and social protection in the internal market calls for there to be joint deliberations at Community level in this respect.
We have not achieved equal rights for men and women either in the sphere of work or that of social protection.
As a result, they have a low level of social protection or none whatsoever, for paid employment serves as the basis for this according to systems currently in force.
However, it must still be worth an individual' s while to work, notwithstanding all the necessary contributions.
As before, in principle it is the Member States that are responsible for framing and financing their social protection systems.
Nevertheless, cooperation within the EU on the part of the expert working group, in which women must be suitably represented, could be instrumental in bringing about convergence of the social systems in the long term.
Gender-related aspects must feature prominently in all these goals.
I believe that congratulations are also in order for the Commission with regard to this notification, for these four points are, in fact, to a very large number of EU citizens extremely important - if not the most important points which merit further thought.
The Commission' s communication is an important strategic document for bringing about European social convergence.
The Commission has recognised this interrelatedness.
The challenges are different.
The levels of employment are different and this is why it is very important to set the ball rolling gently but to make steady progress nonetheless.
It is a report which tries to give direction.
I hope that Europe, in terms of social protection, will make a step forward, taking into account subsidiarity, for without subsidiarity, this would not be possible.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like my fellow MEP, Bartho Pronk, please allow me to thank the Commission for this communication and, in particular, to congratulate our rapporteur for the work he has put into this report.
Commissioner, the fact that this report is no longer controversial within Parliament does not mean that it has lost any of its crucial importance.
Within my group, it speaks for itself that social protection forms an important part of this social cohesion and should thus also be added to the agenda in Lisbon.
My group is pleased that the Social Affairs Council gave the go-ahead for a better cooperation strategy as early on as the end of last year and that, in fact, a group of high-ranking officials has already been commissioned to submit to the Council an initial report by June 2000.
It is of great importance that, in our fellow MEP' s report, this European Parliament advocates a true European strategy of social convergence, based on what provisions have been made for employment via the so-called Luxembourg strategy, that is to say it should encompass common goals, guidelines, national action plans and performance evaluations.
The employment strategy has proved that it can function well and social convergence is also necessary, for our social security systems are facing the same challenges, and in an EMU era, social security systems would otherwise threaten to fall prey to social competition.
But let me make one thing clear on behalf of my group: social convergence strategies should not be an alternative to social legislation.
I think that it also a good thing if, moreover, the European Parliament tried to convince the Council to substantiate the common strategy as early on as in Lisbon and to launch an annual procedure to reduce poverty levels no later than at the beginning of 2001.
Finally, we urge the European Parliament, both sides of industry and social NGOs to be closely involved in this process.
We now already have major social problems and major social costs to find from the public budgets, which is a problem for many Member States.
We have different traditions and there are differences in culture and, in spite of there being many points of similarity, there are also major differences between one country and another in the nature and extent of the social problems concerned.
I do not agree with the requirement that the Commission should intervene in regard to what is referred to as unfair competition between social and tax systems, if interference of this kind is to be used to stem the tide of new thinking and to restrict development and the process of making our social systems more efficient, or else to prevent a reduction in the unduly high tax burden in many EU countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, with regard to the strategy which has been set out here on modernising social security, I would like to point out some positive things as well as raise some questions that have come up for me.
The reasons for adjustments are, for example, to improve employment, reduce social security expenditure, but are also due to policy competition and EMU criteria.
Policy competition mainly occurs in the northern countries.
The highest level of stability and even improvement of social security can be found in the southern countries.
All in all, both sides of industry only have a limited role to play in the process as a whole.
Mr President, I come from the same country and the same region as the rapporteur, Mr Andersson.
But I am critical of the global perspective on social security which characterises both the Commission' s communication and Mr Andersson' s report.
But social integration is an entirely different type of process which presupposes cultural community and direct communication between people.
Social policy is chiefly a national process.
Local democracy provides the framework for social security.
I belong to a party which, once upon a time, believed in central control, five-year plans and far-reaching convergence requirements.
I do not believe that the chief responsibility can lie with Mr Prodi and his Commission.
But under the influence of the free movement of employees, of the internal market and of the euro, the labour markets are actually beginning to become integrated.
In order to combat distortion of competition and prevent dumping, the Commission has, in my opinion, developed a well-balanced approach which steers a midcourse between harmonisation and non-intervention.
Indeed, expansion, globalisation, a sharp increase in the ageing population, individualisation and changes in family situations render such reorganisation inevitable.
Indeed, if social protection were to be phased out as a result of competition, this would also harm social protection as a production factor.
The discrepancies between the Member States are too immense in terms of provisions, rightful claimants, revenue or benefits, etc.
Social policy needs to be renewed in order to reduce unemployment in the Member States.
The EU should also, on the basis of a uniform definition of poverty thresholds, table recommendations concerning what is called the minimum acceptable subsistence level in the Member States.
Those structural problems which make unemployment higher in Europe than in the United States will become even greater.
The Member States can devise their own systems in the social sphere, each within the framework of its economic resources and political preferences.
He has done a great deal of work on behalf of Parliament in producing a wide-ranging consensus on what is, by any definition, a thorny issue, not just in this Parliament but in virtually every Member State.
To be successful we have to ensure that our economic policy, our employment policy and our social protection policy in its broadest sense, are integrated and that we deal with them as a whole.
We have to ensure that our ECOFIN ministers and our employment ministers acknowledge that social affairs ministers have a contribution to make to the establishment of a society in Europe which is creative, has initiative and which will provide a high quality of life for all of our citizens.
We do not want the US model - a model which has spectacularly failed to create the employment that is necessary to provide a decent quality of life.
We have the traditions of solidarity in Europe and we have the experience of a better way of doing things.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is one of the social areas to which the European Union ought to pay much more attention.
Macroeconomic policies, the stability pact and the criteria for nominal convergence have put a brake on modernising social protection which would improve the quality of people' s lives, specifically by means of a significant increase in pensions and pension schemes, particularly of the minimum pensions, and through fighting social exclusion.
This situation is particularly serious in countries such as Portugal where the minimum pensions and pension schemes are barely more than half of the minimum national wage which in turn, is the lowest in the whole of Europe.
Mr President, in my previous life I ran two manufacturing businesses, one in the United Kingdom and one in the Netherlands.
The simple reason for this was that social costs in the Netherlands were just too high in comparison.
The European Union should actually place social issues at the heart of the building of Europe.
The European Union should proclaim one general principle, to wit, that the social rights acquired in Member States may not be restricted.
In order to strengthen the funding of social security systems, we need a policy of general wage increase, the establishment of a minimum legal wage in each Member State.
In order to fight poverty, entitlement to an income and to employment are inalienable rights.
Finally, in order to avoid health being treated in any way as a commodity, the European Union should declare itself clearly opposed to pension funds and to a situation where private insurance companies have access to the health system.
The labour market and social protection are, in fact, two sides of the same coin, that require harmonised policies and rules.
If the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment, flexibility and salary discipline, then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function, and vice versa.
I would like to highlight the clear positions adopted against social dumping, together with the right to a basic level of social security, the goal of social convergence, and, in particular, the quite specific points that have been made about equal opportunities for women being the primary objectives of this social policy.
I believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it, but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged.
Bearing in mind that everybody has the right to social protection and a minimum guaranteed social income, I believe that we must not forget about those people who were not born in the European Union.
In social terms, it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience, as President Gutierres recently stated in Spain.
What is required here is a training policy to qualify and prepare people for new jobs, for those who already have a job and for those who need a second opportunity, because sometimes, as the title of the film states, the postman always rings twice.
In my humble opinion, it is the responsibility of all European, national and regional governments to ensure that he rings on more than one occasion.
The second point is that we must bear in mind the legal basis by virtue of which the European Commission can operate.
You know very well that the Treaty provides no legal basis for policies at European level, but there is the agreement expressed at the last Council, there is agreement that work should begin on coordination and the exchange of experience, as well as the exchange of successful programmes between the Member States.
The Portuguese Presidency has focused on two things: sustainable pension systems and social accession.
Concerning some remarks about the role of social protection systems, the cost of social protection and the part played by those systems in the competitiveness of the Member States, I should like to say that in Europe policies strive to combine competitiveness and social cohesion.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Forgeries are big business.
The problem affects a lot of jobs in the entertainment industry.
There exists a special clause which requires Parliament' s assent in two cases.
A new institution is being created, an assembly which, in the future, will monitor the agreement and its consequences.
Parliament cannot, in any case, at present do anything about the matter.
Parliament cannot change these details.
We can only say yes or no to the agreement as it stands.
Both myself, as rapporteur, and the committee think we ought to say yes.
We have here an agreement which, in spite of its defects, constitutes a significant step forward for the issue of copyright.
Now, the Union and the Member States are combining to take the first steps in the area of intellectual property law.
Finally, I also want to thank this Chamber for being so good as to listen to these words at this late hour.
Today we are asked to give our assent in effect to two treaties: the treaty on intellectual property and the treaty on interpretations, performances and phonograms.
Even though, as the Commission says, the texts of the treaties do not contain special provisions to regulate all the respective issues raised by technological development, it can nevertheless be said that within the legislative framework created, performing or interpreting artists enjoy broader protection than that accorded by the Treaty of Rome or even by the Community directives.
Interpreting Article 7 of the Treaty, we can conclude that the application of protection for reproduction does not only mean protection for the reproduction of the interpretations or performances themselves as such that are embodied in recordings, but also protection against copying, whether in whole or in part and whether permanent or temporary, and protection against any other form of production.
First, there is the right of distribution as referred to in Article 8(1).
To conclude, I want to say that ratification of these treaties opens a horizon for property rights.
In the 21st century, the century of knowledge and the invisible economy, intellectual property will be the dominant form of property and will, in many cases, be more important than traditional property.
We are at the dawn of an age in which new legislation will be created, where the right to utilise intellectual property will clash head on with the public interest in terms of its dissemination and exploitation by the public at large.
In signing up, the EU is acting in accordance with its intention to arrogate all internal and international powers, but it is unclear as to where the powers withdrawn from national control, are to end up.
This ratification is also necessary in the light of the enlargement of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, the adoption of the WIPO agreements was a very positive step in the direction of the global information society.
The new operational environment is, above all, a huge opportunity to create and spread culture in a different way than ever before.
It is essential that the interests of all parties are taken into account.
Mr President, with regard to the protection of intellectual property rights, the reality always seems to be ahead of the regulations.
If this is the case, it is all the more obvious when the process involves multinational or supranational organisations, such as the WIPO, which has debated the treaties which we are proposing to rectify.
In considering whether we are in favour of the ratification of these treaties, we may wonder whether they meet the most current needs in that field.
On the one hand, the problems which it aims to resolve have already been resolved to a large extent by means of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society.
On the other hand, the majority of the Member States have already adapted their legislation to the treaties which are now being ratified.
I must finally point out that the legislative amendments introduced in a number of countries, such as Spain, have resolved some conflicts but have led to others which are commonly found when it comes to putting a price on rights and material.
Both the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty constitute progress in the international protection of copyright and neighbouring rights and are, as such, a considerable improvement on the Berne Convention and the Treaty of Rome.
Both Treaties contribute towards a high level of protection for works and other matters, but offer the public access to the contents of these via electronic networks.
In addition, assent leads to more widespread international recognition of the European Union' s role in terms of copyright.
At international level, there is a great deal of support for treaties entering into force more swiftly.
The entry into force of treaties largely depends on the European Union, because thirty ratification acts are required in order for treaties to enter into effect, and these acts that are signed by the European Union and the Member States, including associated countries, are of vital importance in order to reach this number.
In this context, Parliament has already played a key role in the discussions on the draft directive on copyright in the Information Society, which led to the approval of the Barzanti report in February 1999.
This directive is the necessary counterpart of the proposed decision and largely embraces the key principles of the WIPO Treaties.
The European Parliament must now follow once again the exceptional assent procedure of Article 300(3).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m.)
