Uganda: anti-homosexual draft legislation The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on the anti-homosexual draft legislation in Uganda.
We therefore join President Obama and others in the international community who have called for this bill not to be approved and for the review of any laws that would criminalise homosexuality in Uganda.
It would not only be seriously detrimental to the safety and freedom of homosexuals in Uganda, but it would also tarnish the image of Uganda throughout the world and make it into a pariah.
Uganda must respect its obligations in accordance with international humanitarian law and with the Cotonou Agreement.
Mrs Striffler, you had a further 12 seconds.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would have liked to start this debate by talking about the case of Aminatou Haidar.
In any case, the question of the eligibility rights in Uganda also deserves our attention, and this reminds us that once again, we are forced to adopt a new text condemning homophobia.
The draft also includes a provision that could lead to the imprisonment for up to three years of anyone, including heterosexual people, who fail to report within 24 hours the identities of everyone they know who is lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, or who supports human rights for people who are.
I also voted on Monday this week, as part of the Committee on Development, for a report by Mrs Jolie on this topic of the Cotonou Agreement.
I believe that today's discussion, although it could have taken place earlier last month, puts us in this position where we obviously cannot but reject what is happening in Uganda. (FI) Mr President, I would like to contribute to this debate by reminding everyone that a Review Conference of the International Criminal Court Statute is to be held in Kampala, Uganda, next May.
It is now actually 10 years since this important criminal court was founded, and I would hope that the Ugandan Government will examine its own legislation from every angle to ensure that it is in line with international agreements and will comply with the principle of non-discrimination.
The Presidency and the Heads of Mission in Uganda also raised this issue with the Ugandan Government on several occasions, during meetings with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, in Article 8 meetings, and with the Uganda Human Rights Commission.
In its latest démarche on 3 December, the EU Presidency and the local troika met the acting Foreign Minister, to whom they again expressed these serious concerns, confirmed their support for fundamental freedoms and reminded Uganda of its international obligations.
