EU-Africa relations (debate) (EL) The next item is the report [2007/2002(ΙΝΙ)] (Α6-0375/2007) by Mrs Martens, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the state of play of EU-Africa relations.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the report on the state of play of relations between the European Union and Africa.
It was a strategy that was too much for Africa, but without involving Africa, and Parliament and civil society were not sufficiently involved in the development of this strategy.
Madam President, this strategy should provide us with the structure and direction for joint action in the future.
Although the most recent MDG figures permit a degree of optimism, in sub-Saharan Africa 41.1% of people still live on 1 dollar a day.
This situation cannot be improved with development aid alone.
I would very much like to hear from the Commissioner about the situation regarding the possible postponement of the deadline of 1 January 2008.
Madam President, African governments are, of course, primarily responsible for development in their own countries.
Other countries are beginning to exert their own influence in and on Africa in a very emphatic way: look at China, for example.
Peace and security are a grave problem in Africa.
Capacity building in these areas is vitally important.
Madam President, the second EU-Africa Summit is to take place in Lisbon in December after a gap of seven years.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur, Europe, Africa and the world have changed a great deal in the last decade.
Europe is now a block of 27 Member States bringing together at times extremely diverse foreign policy priorities and approaches.
Although it is not fair to say that the African continent has been neglected, given the volume of public development aid that Europe makes available to this continent, we can, however, talk about a strategic vacuum in the relationship between Europe and Africa.
This new relationship between the EU and Africa is set out in the documents that we hope will be adopted during the December summit: the Joint EU-Africa Strategy, its First Action Plan and, we hope, the Lisbon Declaration.
They set out an approach which, on the one hand, favours multilateral channels and, on the other, aims to deal with the various aspects of our relationship in a more integrated manner.
While the EU-Africa strategy adopted in 2005 is an EU document which is only binding on the Union, the new strategy - for the first time a joint strategy - and the action plan are the result of joint work with our African partners.
From the beginning the summit documents have been prepared by a joint group of experts and we hope that they will be endorsed at the EU-Africa Ministerial Troika Meeting to be held on 31 October, in a process that has also involved non-governmental actors and civil societies, both African and European.
The joint strategy and the first action plan are therefore the result of joint work.
As a result, their current wording reflects and responds to many of the concerns and suggestions contained in the report of Mrs Martens, a report which is clearly very complete and comprehensive.
The partnerships between the European Union and Africa identified both in the joint strategy and in the draft action plan must cover subjects of common interest.
It is with this goal in mind that we plan to hold, with confidence and an awareness that what we are doing must be done, the next EU-Africa Summit in Lisbon in December.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate and thank Mrs Martens for her most excellent report, which raises various issues and offers a number of useful leads, and which certainly provides us with a source of inspiration as Parliament's contribution to what is in fact an extremely important subject, and one that calls for a new approach in the area of EU-Africa relations.
As you all know, 2007 will be a special year for the future of relations between Europe and Africa.
As an early confirmation of this commitment I am pleased to be able to announce that the first action plan put forward by the Pan-African Parliament will be funded to the tune of EUR 275 000 from the institutional support programme, which is currently financed by the ninth European Development Fund.
Perhaps we sometimes tend to forget, but we are speaking here about the common destiny of 1.5 billion human beings and it is they who are the most important actors in the partnership that we are now setting up.
Mrs Martens, I am completely in agreement with the need for coordination; this is why we proposed the code of conduct, which should provide for a better division of labour between the different donors, which means greater harmony.
I believe that we have been consistent in this regard because, as you know, in the tenth European Development Fund we have provided a special financial envelope for governance, which is one of the aspects, and clearly a very important one at that, of the political dialogue that we intend to establish with our African partners.
We need to leave behind the traditional - we might even say banal - relationship, this fairly archaic partnership of beneficiary and donor, or donor and beneficiary, and move on to a much more political association involving two partners with equal rights and responsibilities.
In my view this is clearly much more important.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (FR) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I represent as draftsman, is in favour of all these efforts.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Martens has prepared an excellent report that was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Development.
For the first time ever Africa and Europe are slowly beginning to work in partnership and establish a common approach to the development of democracy, support for development and strengthening peace and security across the African continent.
I share the hope expressed by the representatives of the Council and the Commission that this report will prove a good source of inspiration in the run-up to the Lisbon EU-Africa Summit.
As things stand at present, only half the Member States of the Union have ratified the Partnership Agreement with the ACP (African, Caribbean and Pacific) countries due to enter into force on 1 January 2008.
With this in mind we are insisting that the new EU-Africa strategy should clearly state its commitments and specify the concrete measures needed to ensure that they are honoured as far as Africa is concerned.
We shall therefore pay very close attention to the manner in which the recommendations we have made in our report are taken into account in the drafting of this document and shall naturally reserve the right to react accordingly as soon as the text is made known to us.
Seven years after the first summit in Cairo, the Portuguese Presidency together with the Commission is trying to draw up a new EU-Africa strategy in an - I really do think - honest attempt to divest themselves of the old model of donors and beneficiaries.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for their intervention but also in particular our rapporteur, Ms Martens, for her work on this issue, because the reality is that we are dealing with a new partnership, a new arrangement between the European Union and Africa.
The issues with regard to governance, the issues with regard to development aid and, in particular, the issues with regard to free trade are vitally important for future developments of Africa.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, in spite of stated intentions we cannot really say that any new elements have been introduced to the debates that have been taking place in recent months on the partnership between the European Union and Africa.
As far as the other measures are concerned I would say that all in all the European Union's proposals are fairly typical, lying somewhere between promoting good governance and free trade, with the accent on economic development and the provision of health care.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Mrs Martens, especially for the way in which we were able to work together in committee, for her attentiveness and also for the divergences that emerged, the differences between us; but I think the outcome, apart from a few points, is a very significant one.
Commissioner Frattini announced last month that, to ensure Europe will get 'the migrants its economy needs', over the next 20 years the EU would import 20 million skilled workers from these continents through the blue card system, similar to the American Green Card.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Madam President, no one can deny that this report describes in great detail the many problems of the African continent, and the various challenges for the partnership between the European Union and Africa.
No one, for instance, disputes any more that Robert Mugabe is a criminal who has brought his country to its knees and who terrorises his own population.
However, this gentleman must not become a stumbling block to a new chapter in European-African relations.
I therefore urge the Commission to incorporate parliamentary capacity-building on a targeted basis into its country programmes, so that in a few years time, we can genuinely see that African politics have become much more responsive, in practice, to the public's needs, also thanks to the involvement of the national parliaments. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to compliment Mrs Martens on her work and acknowledge the political will of the EU and the African Union to build a joint strategy comprising numerous subjects of interest to both communities: from security to the environment, from migration to development and the promotion of human rights and democracy.
In order for this strategy to be truly effective, the EU must build this partnership as of now, properly involving civil society and local parliaments.
Furthermore, I would echo other colleagues in calling for the strongest possible commitment from the EU to achieving the Millennium Development Goals, combating AIDS - which is decimating the working population - and elaborating European policies that are genuinely consistent with the spirit of development cooperation, above all in the context of international trade. (LT) I would like to congratulate Mrs Martens on her report on the state of play of EU-Africa relations and for the proposed measures for improving these relations.
Despite the international aid granted by the EU and other countries, the poverty level has not been reduced; in fact it has increased.
This is happening in Africa, the continent of the world richest in natural resources.
This would boost the efficiency of the implementation of the Development Cooperation Programme. (DE) Madam President, a very important factor in African development policy is trade, and trade, if it is used properly, can of course help to reduce poverty and it can also help to improve health care in Africa.
I am very pleased that - either because common sense has prevailed, or because pressure from the African countries has become so intense - since last Monday, the Commission is taking a different approach to the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs).
I congratulate Ms Martens on her report.
Without us - without our help, without our cooperation - they will not get out of the situation described in the Martens report, because they need not just trade but also aid and equal relationships to enable them to move beyond their past, for which, clearly, we are partly responsible. (SV) Thank you Madam President.
In December, the first summit for several years will take place between the African Union and the EU.
Thank you. (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Martens, for this important report.
The fact that the Commission ignored not just its opposite number, but also Parliament, when it was preparing the EU Strategy for Africa in 2005, has, unfortunately, been a common approach for the Commission.
Only the local population itself can get Africa on its feet. (PT) I must congratulate Mrs Martens on this important report at a time when the EU is redefining its relationship with Africa, largely due to the emergence of China as a player in that continent.
This will be useful for ensuring that the measures set out in the joint strategy and action plan subsequently become reality, with the support of the European Parliament and under the control of the various applicable financial instruments.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must insist that the Commission step up the capacity-building in the area of the human rights agenda.
I want to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Martens, on the comprehensive and balanced definition of the new strategy as set out in her excellent report.
That said his presence ought to be categorically challenged and condemned. (NL) Madam President, relations between the European Union and the African countries have become unacceptably strained due to the negotiations with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries about the Economic Partnership Agreements.
If these negotiations fail, then Cotonou will end in a black hole for a number of countries from 1 January because our trade relations will then become the far less favourable Generalised System of Preferences.
The new EU-Africa strategy therefore needs to take this dual reality into account and support this still fragile process by means of a genuine political partnership: one that is based on unity, for it is Africa in its entirety, through the voice of the African Union, that has to be our main point of contact; on equity with an agenda that has been drawn up together and not imposed by the North, and on humility, for Europe is not the one and only partner Africa has.
The EU must also support the process by using the Millennium Development Goals as a roadmap, by keeping to its promises and meeting the financial commitments made by the EU and by the Member States and, finally, by recognising the role played by the African parliaments.
The Martens report is in fact the message that we are sending today to the Commission and the Council, and we shall be in Lisbon in December to see if this message has actually got through. (PT) Madam President, as stated in Mrs Martens's report with which I agree to a large extent, the fact that the current EU strategy for Africa was not established in partnership with the people of Africa is one obvious limitation on its potential.
This was a mistake that must and will be corrected in the next EU strategy which must reinforce the role of the African Union and be based on concepts of partnership and equality.
However, we will only be successful in this strategy if we can help to reinforce democracy and human rights across the continent.
The fact that we are talking today with an African Union is in itself significant.
On the other hand, the generalised increase in consumption of both oil and food implies a need to increase global production capacity and, in that regard, Africa is a continent rich in oil and gas, but also with enormous agricultural potential to be exploited.
However, while that new type of relationship is being built, official development assistance continues to be, and will remain for some years, a very useful instrument in Europe's relations with Africa, and not just Europe as a whole but the Member States too.
Spain is now the second largest donor of development aid in the world and it is also the country on the Development Assistance Committee whose contribution has increased most in that time.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I must thank you for your comments, suggestions and even criticisms of what the Presidency is proposing in its plans for EU-Africa relations.
As I have already mentioned, the strategy that we are developing for Africa is not a unilateral strategy.
It is a joint strategy, in other words a strategy that is being drafted, analysed and debated together so that what results and what is proposed is actually what our African friends are hoping for and expecting from us and what we would also of course like to receive, in a positive sense, from our African partners.
The second aspect which in my view is extremely important is that we want to modernise the agenda between the European Union and Africa.
I believe this agenda is comprehensive, ambitious and, as I have said, thoroughly modern.
I would also say that the Portuguese Presidency and Portugal have never hesitated to name dictators in Africa or in any other part of the world and consequently to denounce them and we will continue to do so whenever necessary.
Mrs Martens has responded better than I ever could.
Speaking as the Commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid, with special responsibility for the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and for political relations and dialogue with Africa, I have to tell you - and I am sorry to have to say this - that we do not have the right of coercion that enables us to say to our African partners: 'You can invite anyone apart from him.' At the risk of being too forward I will also say this: if we are to judge things by the yardstick of dictators, or rather those whom we consider as being fit for this role, we would have problems with more than just Mr Mugabe.
I would also like to say that we have enlisted the help of South Africa.
As regards the proportion of funding allocated to agriculture, I would simply point out that, between the ninth and tenth European Development Funds, the figure set aside for this sector increased from EUR 663 million to EUR 1.1 billion.
It is true that, despite the increase in funds between the ninth and tenth EDFs, there was a reduction in absolute percentage terms, but as far as hard cash is concerned the actual increase was not insubstantial.
What is more, we will also be able to mobilise quite substantial resources in a whole series of areas that could create optimum conditions whereby this process of liberalisation could in fact be made progressive, and this gradual opening up of the markets rendered useful, positive and productive.
The EPAs will allow us to continue to guarantee this preferential access to our traditional partners, but more importantly they will help support the process of regional economic integration.
Finally I would like to say that I am in complete agreement with the views that Mr Borrell expressed so clearly.
The forthcoming summit and the EU-Africa strategy will be all about bringing a fundamental change to the nature of relations between Europe and Africa.
Written statements (Rule 142) The EU-Africa Summit should mark a change in the EU's policies on respect for the sovereignty and right to development of the African countries and peoples, by promoting a fairer, more peaceful and more human world with a greater level of solidarity.
This relationship must no longer be based on neo-colonialist ambitions or paternalistic views aimed at recovering the ground lost when the African peoples gained their national independence - after being conquered in the second half of the 20th century - and promoting interference, the military presence of the EU's major powers, and the control and exploitation of natural resources by transnationals.
in writing. - (FR) If we are to highlight the importance of Parliament's report on relations between the European Union and Africa, given the forthcoming EU-Africa Summit in December, then we must above all welcome its realistic approach.
The report calls for a true partnership between the EU and Africa, a democratic and realistic partnership that is based on effective and coordinated aid, but also on trade.
I would particularly like to express my support for the negotiations on the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) for, as the report stresses, international trade has to be conceived as an instrument working for development.
