Subject: Christians in Turkey: Mor Gabriel monastery What is the Council's opinion of the situation of Christian minorities in Turkey, and in particular the current state of the dispute about the partial expropriation of the Mor Gabriel monastery in Eastern Turkey?
Accordingly, the question of religious freedom was raised once again in the framework of the political dialogue at the ministerial meeting in Brussels on 15 September, and the Council can assure Mrs Harkin that it will continue to monitor very closely the issue of religious freedom, including the implementation of the new law governing foundations, and that it will raise this matter with the Turkish authorities at every level at which it sees fit to do so.
The case of the Mor Gabriel monastery is pending, and we shall have to await the judgment regarding that monastery.
This principle is at the basis of the global approach to migration defined by the European Council in December 2005.
This global approach to migration aims to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with the migrants' countries of origin and transit.
A second Ministerial Conference on Migration and Development will be held in Paris on 25 November 2008.
The pact also underlines the need for solidarity with the Member States who are exposed, due to their geographical situation, to an influx of immigrants or whose resources are limited, and invites the Commission to present solutions which, in a spirit of solidarity, will take into account the difficulty faced by these States. (ES) President-in-Office of the Council, I agree with the approach taken by the Council.
Secondly, as Mr Ortega knows, there will be a second EU-Africa Ministerial Conference on Migration and Development in Paris, on 25 November 2008, to follow up on the Rabat Conference, and in this framework there will be three technical meetings on legal migration, illegal migration, and migration and development.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, Mr Masip, as you have underlined, the Council did indeed decide, on 23 June, to resume relations with Cuba, in light of certain recent positive human rights developments.
In this framework, Mr Masip, the first session of the political dialogue between the European Union and Cuba at ministerial level was held in Paris on 16 October.
Secondly, in its conclusions of 23 June, the Council reaffirmed that it would continue its dialogue with representatives from civil society and the democratic opposition during high-level visits, where questions on human rights will always be raised.
We have to achieve democracy in Cuba and ensure Europe's commitment to Cuba. - (SK) Despite reports of 'changes' in Cuba, the facts show that Cuba is still not a free and democratic country.
The reason for imposing political and diplomatic sanctions against Cuba has still not gone away, since 55 of the original 75 dissidents still remain in prison.
As regards the Union, I would remind you that the European Council of 15 and 16 October stated its commitment, under all circumstances, to taking all necessary measures to maintain the stability of the financial system, support the major financial institutions, avoid bankruptcies and assure protection for savers' deposits.
As for the financial system, the European Council also made a forceful call for all players in the system to act responsibly, especially in the banking sector.
I also note, following the European Council of 15 and 16 October, the introduction of the financial crisis team.
There were meetings in the wings of the Ecofin Council on 4 November and, finally, with the Council of the European Economic Area, I personally met representatives from Iceland and believe that we were able to find satisfactory solidarity mechanisms and also adapt the agreements which unite us with this country in the framework of the Council of the European Economic Area.
Implementation of the 7 October decision must, of course, take account of the G20 conclusions, which call for the use of all available resources to sustain activity.
I wonder, therefore, if you will also support group supervision and group support as stated in Solvency II, something not mentioned in your list of financial regulations, but which was thought up outside a time of crisis and could help us in crisis.
To reply to Mrs McGuinness, I think that the response from the G20, the way it was prepared, the fact that there is an action plan agreed by the G20, shows that the Council was united in its action.
It is really considerable.
This incident is alleged to have taken place on 13 July 2003 and has been investigated by both the Swedish and French armed forces.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, these are serious questions raised by Mrs Goudin and Mrs Dahl.
This inquiry was carried out for the French authorities by the Inspectorate for active forces and national defence.
This inquiry showed that the young man captured by French forces on 13 July 2003, during Operation Artemis in the Democratic Republic of Congo, suffered neither torture nor cruel treatment.
For the House's information - I am not obliged to deal with these questions as part of my functions, but I will do so - I will summarise for you the inquiry into the occurrences of 13 July 2003 in Chem-Chem camp in Bunia, in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
This inquiry, carried out with the support and cooperation of the Swedish forces, shows that the young man captured by French forces on 13 July 2003, during Operation Artemis in the Democratic Republic of Congo, suffered neither torture nor cruel treatment.
I am sorry, but that is it. (Interjection from the floor) I am not in a position to force exactly what you would like to hear, maybe.
Madam President, to reply to Mrs Panayotopoulos, I would say to her that the Council fully shares her opinion on the need to reach an agreement, as soon as possible, on the proposed regulation setting out methods for applying Regulation No 883/2004, which relates to the coordination of social security systems.
As you know, the French Presidency asked Alain Lamasssoure, whom you know, a question about ways of overcoming the obstacles to cross-border mobility.
An appropriate balance has to be found between maintaining national social security traditions, which are important in each of our Member States, and making the changes which are vital for facilitating cross-border mobility.
Secondly, Mrs Doyle, we are in favour of a collective solution, providing that, in the cause of mobility, we do not threaten each country's social security traditions.
