Question No 1 is inadmissible (Annex II, Part A, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure).
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As the honourable Member knows, during its meeting from 6 to 8 June 2007 the Council analysed in depth the situation of the Galileo project and adopted a resolution.
The Commission has since then adopted these proposals (on 19 November) and we now hope that the competent Council bodies will analyse these with a view to taking an integrated decision on the implementation of the Galileo project, including the public funding and modalities of public participation, before the end of this year.
Since 2001, as you know, various cooperation agreements in relation to Galileo have been signed with non-EU countries such as China, Israel and Ukraine.
In the specific case of India, a cooperation agreement was signed by the Commission and Indian negotiators in New Delhi on 7 September 2005.
In order to better define the position of third countries, on 22 March of this year the Council adopted a decision authorising the Commission to negotiate with non-EU countries with a view to signing agreements on their associated membership for participation in the European GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) Supervisory Authority (GSA).
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union will assess the current reform process in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the annual report on the progress made, which is scheduled for November as usual.
The Council has reiterated on numerous occasions the importance of the rapid implementation of the four essential conditions for the conclusion of the negotiations on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as set out in the Council conclusions of 12 December 2005, in particular the implementation of police reform.
The High Representative, Mr Solana, met with Miroslav Lajčák, EU Special Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, on 10 September.
As you will know, the Council also adopted on 7 February 2007 a joint action amending and extending the mandate of the EU Special Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As the honourable Member knows, the European Union has not at present agreed any quantified target for investment in innovation.
These include the proposal to create the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, the EUROSTARS initiative, which will actively involve innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, other initiatives under Article 169 of the EC Treaty and joint technological initiatives provided for in Article 171 of the EC Treaty.
It is aiming to present this proposal by the end of 2007.
In all these initiatives, small and medium-sized enterprises will play a very important role.
We believe that governments and Member States have a fundamental role to play in this and it is also of course useful for the Commission to closely monitor how the Member States are developing and adopting their policies in order to meet the objectives set.
The European Union will clearly have a responsibility to support and/or encourage the international community to set itself as ambitious targets as we have proposed for ourselves.
Subject: Developments in Kosovo The Secretary-General of the Council, Javier Solana, at a meeting with the UN Secretary-General on 10 July 2007 said, with regard to Kosovo: '...
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 18 June 2007 the Council reiterated its position that the comprehensive proposal drawn up by President Martti Ahtissari, UN Special Envoy, provides the basis for the settlement of the Kosovo issue by a new resolution of the United Nations Security Council.
The European Council expressed its support for intensified efforts to ensure that the UN Security Council can adopt such a resolution in a timely manner.
The UN Secretary-General asked the Contact Group to report back to him by 10 December.
As you know, on 29 July 2007 the Secretary-General and High Representative, Mr Solana, appointed Ambassador Wolfgang Ischinger as the EU's representative in the Troika.
At the ministerial-level Contact Group meeting, which will take place on 27 September in New York alongside the UN General Assembly, ministers will discuss the state of the negotiations and must issue a statement aimed at giving significant impetus to this process.
On 28 September, also in New York, further separate meetings will be held between the Troika and the parties, possibly followed by an initial direct meeting between the parties on the same day.
We therefore hope, as I have said, that this work will be concluded, that the report will be published and that any recommendations made by this Troika will also be made known to us.
The EU Member States very often act together as a block in the OSCE.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Thank you, Mr President, honourable Member.
The European Union has not yet made any decision on the candidacy of Kazakhstan for the OSCE Chair in 2009.
This analysis and debate will take place at the appropriate time and in the appropriate place.
As the author is not present, Question No 7 lapses.
Above the 30 kg limit imposed by the new Regulation, tuna are hard to sell.
This obligation was met for 2007 through the adoption of Council Regulation (EC) No 643/2007 amending the Regulation on TACs (total allowable catches) and quotas.
During the negotiations with a view to adopting Council Regulation (EC) No 643/2007, the Council and the Commission agreed to introduce a provision ensuring that the recovery plan would be recognised as such by the European Fisheries Fund.
It is planned that this provision will remain in force until 31 December 2014.
This is clearly why I consider that the question would be better put to the Commission than to the Council. (DE) I would like to ask the Presidency how it is dealing with the phenomenon of climate change in relation to fishing quotas.
We will be facing a major challenge after the Bali Conference at the end of this year and, following this whole process, we hope to be able to decide in 2009 on new targets for CO2 emissions. (ES) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also wish to make some remarks on the bluefin tuna issue, and more specifically on the closure of fishing grounds decreed by the Commission recently since the quota allocated to the European Union had been exceeded.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) In answer to the honourable Member's question, the Presidency would refer you to the report on the implementation of the overall policy on transparency presented by the previous Finnish Presidency to the Council on 11 December 2006.
I can tell you that in the first half of 2006 a total of 98 deliberations and debates were open to the public, in accordance with the European Council Conclusions of 15 and 16 June 2006 and Article 8 of the Council's Rules of Procedure.
The Council Decision of 12 February 2007 to move forward with the ESDP (European Security and Defence Policy) mission to Afghanistan must be understood in the context of this wider strategy.
The EU Police mission (EUPOL) is currently in the planning stage.
The Commission has been developing programmes in the areas of rural development, health and governance, and will financially support any civilian activities carried out by Member States through provincial reconstruction teams.
The European Union firmly believes that, as stated by the European Council of 14 December 2006, the security and development of Afghanistan are interdependent.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The Council refers the honourable Member to the Organised Crime Threat Assessment (OCTA), which is annually produced by Europol for the Council's attention and a version of which is published and submitted annually to the European Parliament.
On 13 June this year, in its conclusions on the OCTA 2007, the Council restated its conviction that the fight against organised crime should focus on reducing the threat and the harm caused by it and, in particular, on tackling the following problems: the obstacles to dismantling organised crime groups stemming from their international dimension or influence, the level of infiltration of organised crime into society and the economy, especially the misuse of legitimate business structures and the transport sector in particular, and, finally, the misuse of technology by organised crime groups.
I am not disputing whether or not there is more or less crime as I do not at the moment have any information to give you on this, but it is often the case that there is a psychological perception of an increase in crime when the facts do not actually support this.
I believe that all our Member States are aware of these new technologies and the new opportunities offered to criminals by these technological developments, which are definitely causing specific problems in the fight against organised crime.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Ó Neachtain, as the honourable Member is certainly aware, following the presentation by the Commission of the Mid-Term Review of the European Road Safety Action Programme in March 2006, the Council adopted conclusions at its meeting on 8 and 9 June 2006.
As a result, in October 2006 the European Commission adopted two legislative proposals on the issue of reinforcing road safety and, thanks to excellent cooperation between the European Parliament and the Council, the two co-legislators quickly reached agreement on a proposal for a directive on the retrofitting of mirrors to heavy goods vehicles.
This entered into force in August 2007 and will be implemented by 31 March 2009.
The Commission estimates that this new legislative measure could save up to 1 200 lives on the Community's roads between now and 2020.
I must also say to the honourable Member that he can be assured of the Council's intention to positively assess all road safety measures and initiatives proposed by the European Commission in the context of its current efforts to reduce the number of deaths and injuries on the Community's roads.
As a result, as I have said, it is therefore willing to pay particular attention to any proposals made by the Commission to the Council in this respect.
Subject: The accession of Croatia into the European Union Can the European Council make a comprehensive statement outlining how Croatia's efforts to join the European Union are proceeding at present?
This review and a proposal will be submitted to us by the Commission.
Subject: Climate change Can the European Council make a comprehensive statement outlining what structures are being put in place at EU level so that a greater level of coordination can take place between Europe and America in our efforts to ensure that the target to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by the year 2020 can be achieved?
The first is the high-level meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations on climate change, which actually took place in New York on 24 September.
The second is the meeting of the main economies on 27 and 28 September in Washington, at which the European Union expects to make an important contribution to moving forward the international process within the United Nations.
In addition, the European Union and the United States agreed at the Vienna Summit in June 2006 to set up a high-level dialogue on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development.
I must tell you that the road to Bali and the road after Bali will be complicated and fraught with difficulty.
As I have already said, it is essential that the European Union maintains, shall we say, its role as a leader and as an instigator paving the way for others in order to protect the environment and our planet.
I must draw your attention to the need for the reform of Parliament and, in particular, to what you, ladies and gentlemen, need to do in relation to the essential reform of Question Time, on which I believe we are all unanimous.
I therefore have to put these questions one by one, which probably means that not all three will be answered.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Mrs McGuinness, as the honourable Member knows, the Commission is responsible for applying the Regulation on the Solidarity Fund and the effectiveness of this Regulation must be assessed in terms of the criteria laid down therein.
As the honourable Member is certainly aware and so as not to waste time, the European Council in June asked the European Parliament to put forward a draft of this initiative by October 2007.
We are aware that a report is going to be presented on the future composition of the European Parliament at the part-session in October, i.e.
The reason I am raising this is that in Ireland we have already gone down from 15 to 13 seats.
All I would say to the President-in-Office is this: since there are 16 additional seats to be allocated, would you please bear in mind Ireland's case for retaining the 13 seats?
Question No 31 is inadmissible (Annex II, Part A, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure).
