FAO World Summit on Food Security - Eradicating hunger from the face of the earth (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the FAO World Summit on Food Security - Eradicating hunger from the face of the earth.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the World Food Summit last week in Rome is the latest in a series of high-level events organised this year where food security and agriculture have featured prominently: in January in Madrid, in July in L'Aquila, in September in New York and Pittsburgh, as well as at the meeting of the Committee on World Food Security last month.
If we want to meet the first Millennium Development Goal of halving hunger by 2015, the commitments taken to increase ODA must be fulfilled - in particular by those countries which have committed themselves to reaching the target of 0.7% of gross national income.
Some have criticised the final declaration for not setting more precise official development assistance targets for agriculture and food security, but we must recall that significant financial pledges had already been made at the G8 Summit in L'Aquila.
We have therefore come a very long way in the EU, in enhancing policy coherence for development and thereby creating improved food security conditions for developing countries.
To conclude, the FAO Summit has underscored that if we want to keep to our objective of halving hunger by 2015, then we should step up ODA and increase ODA and private investments in agriculture and we should improve global governance of the agricultural sector.
The problem nearly always lies in the management and use of resources and in the lack of judicious governance and effective coordination at global, regional and national level.
The difficult and uncertain political situation that we are experiencing is also a time of change for those policies that are the best tools for the European Union to use on this issue: the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, which we are about to reform radically.
Indeed, it is estimated that an extra 75 million people around the world went hungry as a direct result of the higher food prices in 2007 and 2008.
The European Union must do all it can to help developing countries to develop sustainable farming and food production systems that enable them to feed themselves.
I would argue that European agriculture has a major role to play, not only ensuring that we are self-sufficient here, but also ensuring that we can contribute to global food security in the future.
More than a billion people suffer from malnutrition and 40 million men, women and children die of hunger each year.
These dramatic figures have risen since 1996, the year of the first World Food Summit.
The food crisis is one of the main threats hanging over peace and stability in the world.
In 2050, small farmers will have to feed more than 9 billion people.
At the end of the 1950s, Europe introduced the common agricultural policy in order to produce the food it needed.
It only takes one farm in one of the 28 regions in Bulgaria to produce the whole quota of tomatoes, for instance, which is assigned to Bulgaria by the European Commission.
In the year 2000, 198 Members of the United Nations adopted specific Millennium Development Goals.
The economic and financial crisis - as we know, since it has been said repeatedly - is only aggravating hunger worldwide.
That is a sixth of the world's population, 20% more than in 2005 and 105 million more than in 2008.
Europeans have food to eat, but that CAP ruins chances for both small-scale farmers and industrial farmers in developing countries, and they lose the chance to earn a decent living.
So there are three points which we need to understand.
Experts estimate that it would cost USD 44 billion to overcome the scourge of chronic malnutrition.
By 2050, our planet may be home to 9.1 billion people, over two billion more than today - a staggering figure and one which will mean that farmers will have to grow 70% more food.
We have different opinions on many things, but I think, on the general point of wanting to do the right thing to assist in feeding the hungry of the world, this text is a step in the right direction.
Can I make one very simple point, which seems to escape many: it is farmers who will feed the world if they are given the right climate - and I mean that in the broadest context - to do that particular job.
We have a moral responsibility and we are prepared to take it on board. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, the world is facing two major long-term challenges: combating the effects of climate change and combating poverty and hunger in the world.
However, in recent weeks, we have received alarming news of resistance among the main gas emitters to making decisions at the Copenhagen conference and the absence of leaders and specific results at the FAO Summit in Rome.
The European Union can only be strong and play a strong role in the world if it has a strong common agricultural policy.
Hunger is present in the European Union as well.
For example, there are regions in the European Union where people spend less than 10% of their income on food, whereas there are other regions too - some parts of Bulgaria and southern regions in Romania - where people are spending on average more than 50% of their income on food.
It is perhaps precisely this extra amount of fodder which we must use, for instance, in rearing poultry, that will be missing from a starving child's table. (RO) The number of undernourished people in the world has passed the one-billion mark, exacerbating the tragic situation that one person in six suffers from hunger.
Out of the total amount of official aid for development, the funds allocated to agriculture have fallen as a proportion from 17% in 1980 to 3.8% in 2006.
Third-country producers prefer to export to the European Union rather than supplying their own countries' markets because such exports are more profitable under World Trade Organisation (WTO) agreements. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was said earlier that, every five seconds, a child dies of hunger and poverty somewhere in the world, and it is estimated that more than a billion people suffer from malnutrition.
The CAP is an important element of the EU food and security policy and after 2013, it will play a significant role in development policy and in external food security policy.
Some Members have already mentioned the problem of how, through climate policy, we have also partly caused more problems.
The absence of a common strategy at international level is concerning, especially in light of the continually increasing world population, which is set to reach 9 billion in 2050.
I think the crisis should teach us a lesson.
We should help developing countries establish an agricultural policy that will enable them to ensure food security to their citizens.
On the other hand, I think it is also very important that we managed to keep the food security item on the political agenda and the result of the several summits we have been witnessing in 2009 has certainly been that it is now high on the international agenda and that, whenever world leaders meet, for example, latterly in Pittsburgh for the G20, there is talk of development cooperation and development policy.
So that in itself is a very positive element.
Nothing is ideal in this world, but when you look at the effect of the common agricultural policy on the developing world, I think we can claim that it is, by far, the least harmful system of a big trading block with respect to distorting effects in the developing countries.
Having said this, also in L'Aquila, we took up our responsibility as a European Commission and we pledged USD 4 billion, which is about 20% of the food package and the support package that was agreed in L'Aquila.
I will end by saying a last word on the new EU agricultural and food security policy because, in the 2010 work programme of the Commission, there is a plan to present to the Council and the Parliament a communication on a renewed policy for agriculture and food security for the European Union.
This remains crucial, notably in view of the increasing demand for food due to a growing global population and changing dietary patterns and the challenges and threats that climate change is posing to sustainable agricultural production.
Fourthly, it will aim at proposing ways on how the EU could contribute to accelerating the process towards the achievements of the MDGs and notably, MDG1 in view of the upcoming review of the MDGs in September 2010 in New York.
A public consultation on an issues paper was launched on 16 November and will close in early January.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 26 November 2009.
