The humanitarian situation in Gaza The next item is the statement of the Council and the Commission on the humanitarian situation in Gaza.
The meetings of the Quartet and the ministerial Ad Hoc Liaison Committee in New York on 23 and 24 September respectively, once again emphasised the international community's support for the diplomatic efforts under way.
That concern, as well as the need to mobilise financial and technical assistance from the international community for those projects, was also stressed by the international donor nations meeting at ministerial level within the meeting of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee.
The Israeli decision of 19 September to declare Gaza a hostile territory and the possibility envisaged of broadening the scope of sanctions imposed on Gaza would, if applied, potentially exacerbate the current situation.
The European Union has consistently reaffirmed its full commitment to continuing humanitarian assistance to Gaza.
In 2006 the total amount of Union assistance from the Commission and the Member States was EUR 688 million.
In 2007 the Commission allocated more than EUR 425 million, divided between humanitarian assistance and social assistance, strategic support for the setting up of the State and advice on economic reforms.
The EU stressed the importance of reopening entry and exit points in Gaza, with a view to securing the movement of people and goods in accordance with the agreement on access and movement.
I wish to thank those who have mentioned the contributions we have made, but let me also say that I have spoken out very clearly to our Arab partners, because it is those partners that have not yet contributed in the same way as we have.
We also stand ready to play our part in the future, and indeed we hope that this international meeting on the Middle East will be a next step towards having more ongoing, positive talks and hopefully, at the right moment, a Palestinian state living side-by-side with Israel within secure borders.
By September our fuel provision to the Gaza Strip had surpassed 90 million litres.
The Karni crossing point has been closed for almost four months now, so our aid has to pass through Karem Shalom and Sufa.
Once again we all agree: something must be done.
I also saw Hodeida, Tanta, Benghazi, Ismailia, to name just a few other places in the Middle East which look very much the same: no occupation, no military intervention.
We can only help them.
They have to stop nepotism and pashaliks. (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, since mid-July, when Hamas seized power in Gaza, one-and-a-half-million people have been confined to what the inhabitants themselves call a ghetto, a cattle farm.
The only things that come in are food, medicines and a few humanitarian goods - but people cannot live on just flour, lentils and medicines.
The blockade breeds despondency, anger and hatred, not peace.
To suggest for one moment that the policies of this European Union are impartial is just ridiculous.
You know very well that it is going to do nothing except mouth a few words and take no tangible action!
The political stalemate between Hamas and Fatah and the President Abu Mazen camp continues.
We should always talk from the foundations up, and the foundations in this case are an improvement in the functioning of Palestinian power structures, public institutions and humanitarian assistance for the people of Palestine.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Mr President, the visit to the West Bank and Gaza a couple of weeks ago that has been mentioned was a shock - even for those of us who have been there many times.
In other words, Israel's occupation must be brought to an end or there will never be peace.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one minute is nothing.
In the resolution that we will adopt tomorrow we are calling for the lifting of the blockade of Gaza and free movement of people and goods everywhere, but we are aware that the Palestinian issue is not a humanitarian one.
I now take the view that the behaviour of Hamas lies behind the present internal and external crisis situation in Gaza.
Mr President, the recent brutal murder of the Palestinian Christian Rami Ayyad, who was only thirty years old, underlines the perilous position of this minority in Gaza.
Mr President, Mr Davies asked, earlier on, what role the European Union had in the Middle East.
We have got to the point now, in October 2007, where there is almost a desperation to try and find some solution.
This year the European Union will have paid more than EUR 300 million to prevent this crisis.
On 24 September the Israeli government issued an order for the confiscation of 1 100 dunums of land in four Arab villages between Jerusalem and Jericho, to build a road that will cut the West Bank definitively in two.
It is an old Israeli plan from 2004 that Europe and even the United States have always rejected.
NGOs estimate that there are nearly 2 000 newly severely disabled people in Gaza.
Israeli must fulfil its international obligations, such as the Geneva Convention, to guarantee the flow of humanitarian assistance, humanitarian aid and essential services, and to open up the borders.
You know that the international community has opposed this plan.
Prominent Gazan Christian, Rami Ayyad, was murdered last Saturday, and on Sunday, eight mortars and a Katyusha rocket were fired by Hamas at Israel indiscriminately.
I ask you Commissioner, and the Presidency-in-Office too, to make urgent representations condemning the seizure, as was reported this morning, of a further 3% of West Bank land between Jerusalem and Jericho as part of the E1 annexation plan. (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) In the light of the European Parliament resolution of 21 June on the MEDA programme and financial support to Palestine, the resolution of 12 July 2007 on the Middle East and the Quartet's statement of 23 September 2007, it is vital for the European Parliament to express a clear stance vis-à-vis the situation in Palestine.
This striving is what we are dealing with there too. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course the European Union must do everything it can to release the stranglehold on the population of Gaza in an unprecedented humanitarian crisis.
I welcome, therefore, the initiative of this House to debate the situation in Gaza and also welcome the call in the resolution to call upon Israel to fulfil its obligations and guarantee the flow of humanitarian assistance to Gaza.
In 2006, 1 726 rockets were fired.
On 26 September, 54 mortars were fired from Gaza on the Sufa crossing terminal.
The next day, the crossing points to which the Commissioner was referring - Erez and Karem Shalom - were targeted.
Let us acknowledge that there are forces of terror and forces of fear in Gaza who seek to profit from the suffering of their own people. (PT) Jimmy Carter said in an interview this week that since President Clinton there have never been any good-faith talks on the subject of the Middle East under the patronage of the United States of America.
The humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza obliges us to act, conscious that reconciliation and political transformation are possible, are necessary, are expedient.
The humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza marks one of the lowest points in the 60 years of continuous conflict in the Middle East.
We call for security for the State of Israel and we call for security for the state of Palestine.
We cannot take either side and we cannot point a finger.
I would like to say that the European Union has a political strategy for the Middle East Peace process based on sound pillars and principles and that is why the European Union is a welcome partner in the political process.
It is about promoting economic development, and this is part of Tony Blair's mandate, in which we also want to support him as much as we can because this is a possibility and an opportunity that we have to seize.
What we want to do is create a viable Palestinian state for when things are, so to speak, ripe in the political sphere.
This is an area that we are already preparing, so that things are ready after the international meeting and maybe after or at the moment of the pledging conference.
I want to thank you also for having very generously given the Commission the possibility, for 2008, of straight away having EUR 10 000 more in the budget for the Palestinians.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 11 October 2007.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - I join others in calling on Israel to fulfil its obligations under the Geneva Conventions to guarantee the flow of humanitarian aid, humanitarian assistance and essential services, such as electricity and fuel, to the Gaza Strip.
Israel needs to lift the blockade of the Gaza Strip, and ensure the movement of people and goods at Rafah, in compliance with the Agreement on Movement and Access and the EU Border Assistance Mission, as well as the movement of goods at Karni.
Finally, I echo the call on Israel to guarantee the flow of financial assets to the Gaza Strip, which has been suspended since 25 September 2007, given that the lack of access to any financial assets has a serious negative impact on the economic, social and daily life of the Palestinian people.
