Last week, on 24 September, an extremely important referendum was held, in which the Danes rejected the single currency.
The loans are not guaranteed one hundred percent and the Council decided in December 1999 to guarantee just 65% of the final total for loans for the period 2000-2007.
There is a special Guarantee Fund in the Union budget for loans from the EIB.
In 2000 a maximum of 204 million euros can be transferred from the reserve to the Guarantee Fund.
The Guarantee Fund can also be used to guarantee the Euratom loans to support the development of core industries in non-member countries, although no transfers from the reserves to the Guarantee Fund have had to be organised for these sorts of loans in recent years.
In December 1999 the Council decided the maximum amount for guarantees for the Investment Bank for the period 2000-2007, and produced a list of non-member countries that would be entitled to receive aid.
The European Parliament adopted a position on the matter in a report by Mrs Rühle in autumn 1999.
Mr President, this proposal for a Council decision with a view to extending, for the first time, the Community guarantee for the European Investment Bank undoubtedly has a truly extraordinary scope.
Given this context and bearing in mind the narrow margin of the loan guarantee reserve, which is set at EUR 200 million per year, there is no reason why we should not discuss the priority uses of this margin in coming years.
In July the Commission freed 10 million euros to support the repatriation of refugees.
The proposal under discussion contains a target figure of 250 million euros in EIB loans for Croatia for the period 2000-2007.
The European Union and the European Parliament have every reason to support positive developments in the Balkans.
This is why it is possible to pick up where we left off in 1995.
It is therefore only justified that the mandate of the European Investment Bank will be increased by 250 million.
It is therefore not quite accurate for the report to talk in terms of democratisation.
The environment in the large population concentrations in Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek is at risk.
The comment which my colleague Mr Papayannakis made yesterday about admitting Serbia to the European Union should also apply to Croatia.
We have every intention of recognising these democratic elections and the electoral victory of Vojislav Kostunica.
Of course my country, Austria, in common with all the other European countries, will also have to do its bit towards the reconstruction of Yugoslavia, in tandem with the European Union.
But we are all agreed, nonetheless, that the parliamentary and presidential elections that took place in January 2000 have produced a new political climate.
In July, the European Commission forwarded the draft of a negotiating mandate to the Member States, for them to comment on.
Taking account of those advances last May, the Commission produced a positive feasibility report on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with Croatia and on 19 July recommended opening negotiations.
The proposal before the House would cover up to EUR 250 million of lending over the next four years.
Thank you, Mr Fatuzzo.
