Commemoration of the 1956 Hungarian uprising Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to make a statement, and I shall do so standing, on the 'Hungarian Revolution' of October 1956.
On 23 October 1956, Hungarian university students took to the streets of Budapest to protest against the Communist government and they were soon joined by citizens from all professions and sectors of society.
It was an indescribable tragedy for the Hungarian people, but it was also the first chink in the armour of the Soviet system - a chink that would grow and would lead to the fall of the Berlin Wall - and it was undoubtedly a great moment in the history of that country.
In fact, during the ceremony organised this year to commemorate the events in Poznan in 1956, the Hungarian President, Laszlo Sólyom, said that 'Poznan and Hungary rose up together against the Soviet occupation.
Hungary and Poland laid the first stone of the reunification of the continent, and I believe that this is a good point to quote from Albert Camus in 1957, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution.
The heroes of the Hungarian revolution are heroes for us all.
The participants in the Hungarian uprising quite rightly spoke of revolution, or forradalom.
The people of Hungary acted for our values in Europe, since the freedom for which the heroes of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 strove and died is a part of the European identity.
I ask that, in the altercations in Budapest, no side should act disproportionately, that the demonstrators should not receive a disproportionate response, since we are linked by common values, namely the values of freedom, which also link us to 1956, as well as linking us in the modern day, 2006.
Those men and women who had to fight their oppressors for that right are true heroes of European history.
It shows that on this continent, men and women have always been prepared to dedicate their lives to freedom.
The courage of those men and women is up there with the best that Hungary has to offer Europe.
It is also up there with the best that we as Europeans have to preserve.
This means that the courage of those men and women in Hungary fifty years ago is the courage of men and women in other parts of the world who are fighting oppression in their own lives today.
The Hungarian revolution was popular, national and anticommunist.
But in order to inscribe these events in the history of European freedom, and to feel a sense of community, the European Union needs to have a common memory.
The heroism of the men and women of 1956 cannot be forgotten.
We must remember Imre Nagy, a communist who became a protagonist of the anticommunist revolution, who was assassinated in a secretive and cowardly manner.
And for Hungary, today, we should hope that the Hungarian people and its leaders will draw from the courage of 1956 the strength to find the wisdom needed to put the public good and the common interest above political controversies. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, there are a number of red threads running through history, and it is one of those red threads that we are taking hold of here.
It started on 17 June 1953 in Germany, then ran through Poland and Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968, until Communism was finally defeated.
The Hungarian uprising was an uprising for democracy; it was a national uprising, but also a political one.
As we remember this uprising now, 50 years on, we can also add to that memory another one, namely the 100th anniversary of the birth of Hannah Arendt.
The people of Hungary and Poland 50 years ago and those of Czechoslovakia in 1968, and also the people in this country who fought against fascism, have shown us that it is sometimes necessary to give one's life for democracy and freedom.
We should take this lesson to heart, and not be afraid to say that totalitarianism - whether fascist or communist - is and always will be totalitarianism. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I express a point of view largely shared by my group when I say that I agree that the 1956 uprising in Hungary should be considered first and foremost as a popular uprising for freedom and independence.
I could go on to cite the name of the great communist philosopher György Lukács, who was also involved in this struggle for reform.
The reunified Europe has more to achieve by turning resolutely towards the future. (Applause from the left) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over 2 500 tanks against an unarmed people, 75 000 Red Army soldiers, thousands of victims, over 2 000 people shot by the Kádár government instated by the Soviets, 12 000 prisoners sent to gulags, 200 000 refugees: these are a few of the terrifying figures that sum up a nation's tragedy, but also the beginning of the end for a party and a power which, following the shameful and iniquitous Yalta agreements, dominated half of our continent.
The first signs came in Berlin in 1953, followed by the cry for freedom in Poznań, in Poland, in 1956.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, today, we in this House are commemorating a tragic political event that took place in Hungary 50 years ago.
The historical significance of Budapest 1956 is much more than local or national.
The images of Prime Minister Imre Nagy and General Pál Maléter and the fight against the Russian tanks are etched on my mind.
The new Hungarian elite has reclaimed the 1956 revolution and the communist symbols in order to justify liberalism.
Communism in fact amounts to an excuse on would-be social grounds to exploit the people, as demonstrated today by China.
Hungary has its place in the European Union because, in its experience of resisting totalitarianism, it brings new political sensibilities and, as in 1956, a popular ability to generate hope.
Today, the protests by the extreme right against Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has admitted having lied about the state of the economy in order to win the elections last April, have seen 100 000 people demonstrating in Budapest on the occasion of the 50th anniversary.
The current President of the Italian Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, appeared in the newspaper L'Unità condemning the revolutionaries as thugs and disreputable troublemakers.
We therefore honour the 5 000 Hungarian martyrs who did not bow to injustice and who fought to the death to exert their right to a better future, to a prospect of freedom, democracy and peace.
