Towards a common European foreign policy on energy (debate) The next item is the report by Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on a common European foreign policy on energy.
The EU has to be active, determined and united.
We should replace the current EU Member States' preference for energy unilateralism with a new common policy of energy solidarity based on a multilateralist approach.
Meanwhile, there is a necessity to establish a good practice of consultation among Member States on strategic decisions which may affect the EU or one of its members.
Common threats to secure energy for Europe should therefore produce a common response.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I welcome very much the initiative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in particular the chairman, Mr Saryusz-Wolski, to propose a report on a common European foreign policy on energy.
The report serves to underline the growing importance of energy issues in the Community context, particularly the external aspects and the importance of the European Union speaking with one voice on external energy issues.
NESCO has been active since the early summer, which has permitted a very useful and early exchange of energy information between Member States.
However, an earlier exchange of information on planned initiatives by particular Member States would still be highly welcome.
The call for a suitable Treaty basis for energy and energy security is particularly important and timely, as is the call for concrete provisions in the Treaties that will lead to the creation of a common European foreign policy on energy.
I believe that this version of the report is also balanced geographically, recognising the importance of enhancing our energy relations not only with our eastern neighbours but also with our Mediterranean, Middle East, Asian and other partners.
However, at the same time I firmly believe that the principles of the Charter also need to be included in a robust energy agreement within the framework of the post-PCA agreement with Russia.
However, we do need to go further and I therefore fully support the call in this report for concrete provisions in the Treaties that will lead to the creation of a common European foreign policy on energy.
As the EU is becoming increasingly dependent on imports of energy, it is crucial that we have a coherent and focused response to the challenges that this presents, not least in our relations with our major external energy suppliers.
However, it is a shame that paragraph 62 of the report is too categorical as regards full ownership unbundling of energy production, transmission and distribution, since other solutions exist to reconcile the creation of a European energy market with the essential political security that we must maintain over our networks.
The European Union's growing dependence on external energy supplies, mainly from unstable countries, gives rise to concerns regarding the economic and political interests of the Member States as well as the EU's overall security.
This is a very important aspect of this issue.
What I am not so happy about is what he added with regard to the new Solana-like function, to be able to talk with one voice for the European Union.
We have therefore asked for a split vote on this topic tomorrow.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (LT) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and express my thanks for the good cooperation in coordinating the changes to the report on this new, brave issue.
The way forward for this is also presented in this report. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Saryusz-Wolski, who has written an excellent report on a very important and topical issue, and I would like to thank you for working together, for your cooperation and your willingness to reach a compromise.
This means that its energy dependency is very high.
It is vital that we diversify our sources and our transport corridors since the areas of the world we are dealing with in both cases are unstable, or largely unstable, and this also poses a threat to our security of supply.
The report, and Mr Saryusz-Wolski, deserve particular credit for drawing attention to the concerns surrounding the Nord Stream pipeline.
The report from Mr Saryusz-Wolski is also an important step in this direction.
We find very reasonable doubts about the Nord Stream pipeline, the demand for Russia to respect the principles of the Energy Charter, the involvement of the WTO and the expansion of our energy policy beyond the context of European Union Member States.
For all of these reasons, our political group is happy to support this report.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the assessment of the rapporteur, Mr Saryusz-Wolski, concerning the problems of dependence on imports and the growing dependence on imports of energy fuels and I have little disagreement with it - the report describes it very well.
When we realise that in the construction sector in Russia alone, as much gas is consumed unnecessarily as is otherwise exported from Russia to the European Union, then it is clear how much we can gain if we implement our efficiency strategies at home and then also turn the outward-looking energy strategy of the European Union into a viable method for Russia.
Mr Saryusz-Wolski's report does not push forward the Nabucco project in particular without good reason.
Our Commissioner for Energy, Mr Piebalgs, eloquently dubbed this gas pipeline 'an embodiment of the existence of a common European energy policy'.
In short, Austrian project manager OMV must immediately discontinue its stubborn attempts at a hostile takeover of group partner, Hungarian oil and gas firm MOL.
Madam President, in the event that the Nabucco project and similar European plans are unsuccessful, there will be insufficient energy diversification for the new EU Member States.
This will result in a fragmentation of the European energy market and the diplomatic curtain will then unfortunately fall on a European external energy policy.
The European institutions must never let it come to this. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in common with the rapporteur, I also believe that it is necessary and important to align foreign policy with energy policy.
For my country, Estonia, this is nothing new: Estonia experienced a full-scale energy blockade 16 years ago, when Russia punished its former colony for trying to become genuinely independent.
But I am especially encouraged by Commissioner Piebalgs for his deeply professional, constructive and forthcoming approach and I look forward to our good cooperation. (DE) Madam President, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Saryusz-Wolski, for the opportunity to work with him well and to be able to reach a compromise.
If Russia is opening up its markets, we shall do so too.
This cannot lead us to say we will not source any more energy from these countries.
But it must mean - if we want to remain credible - that we will do both: energy policy, but also human rights policy, and improving the human rights situation in these countries.
The report shows that the Union still has much to do to establish a common policy on energy.
Member States must be able to maintain their right to take decisions on energy and exploit their own energy sources, but at the same time we need cooperation, an exchange of best experience and also common rules and regulations to promote the establishment of a common energy policy.
Energy is a sphere in which EU competence is shared with the Member States.
The recent disagreement between the European Union and Russia over the Energy Charter is a sign that energy security has entered a new era.
We must also ensure that there is real coordination between the 27 Member States.
The pressure that energy supply places on governments should not make us rush these decisions or neglect the principles we have worked on together.
As the previous President of the European Parliament reminded President Putin, human rights cannot be negotiated in return for our energy needs.
On the contrary, we must make our supply conditional on respect for human rights. (PT) This report starts with a real problem - the Union's energy dependence - but it comes to the wrong conclusion.
The enemy is not Russia, whatever our opinion of Puttin, nor Algeria, whether or not we approve of their armed forces.
In conclusion I should like to paraphrase José Sócrates: It would perhaps be a good idea to start listening to the scientists and economists once again rather than to couch geostrategists.
President Putin is on record as saying 'The Commission should be under no illusions.
Take, for example, Alisher Usmanov.
Usmanov bought the newspaper Kommersant.
Commissioner, good luck.
The Member States are able effectively to agree among themselves - this is highly desirable, it is not a chore.
The rapporteur's report in favour of the common energy policy leans towards Russia, but this is simply consistent with the situation today. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is increasingly dependent on traditional energy sources, in particular oil and natural gas.
For instance, it is necessary to make substantial energy savings and step up research in this area.
I therefore welcome the report by Mr Saryusz-Wolski as a necessary step and a vital element in the debate on introducing this policy.
It is possible to support all these tenets and principles.
In my opinion, we should bear this aspect in mind when debating the establishment of our common foreign policy on energy. (SV) Madam President, I thank the rapporteur for seeking to make the Russo-German Nord Stream project into a common concern for the EU.
So my thanks go to the author of the report on European foreign policy on energy, Mr Saryusz-Wolski, for drawing up this complex set of ideas on the subject of European Union energy security.
Allow me today to open a debate on a new proposal, not on a high commissioner but on a whole new issue.
Therefore, using energy tariffs to create a European fund for alternative energy can help us, not to create another Lisbon Strategy for 2020, but to really reach such people as Topolánek and give us the ability to have new resources, so as not to be dependent. (PT) This resolution reveals the glaring inadequacies of European policies in the field of energy.
This report underlines the political dimension of the European energy market.
However, in this area the EU not only faces the strategic imperative of guaranteeing security of supply.
The actual sustainability of the European energy policy and the environmental implications of lack of diversification of our energy sources require an urgent change of course.
I have already emphasised the issues of the common energy policy and the security of energy supply several times because these are issues of vital importance for Lithuania and the other Baltic counties.
On 19 September the package with this report has finally begun to meet our expectations. (SV) Madam President, first let me congratulate the rapporteur on a report which is not just extremely good but is also timely.
Mr Saryusz-Wolski has done an extremely important job in shifting the focus from energy as a matter of our convenience to energy as a question of geopolitical importance.
Yes, the European Union needs a common European foreign policy in energy.
We need a truly free internal energy market.
We need to refocus the problem from the point of view of interdependence, as the Union represents around 500 million consumers, which gives us considerable weight on the global market.
However, we are repeating the error of not harmonising diplomatic efforts at national and European level, which weaken us economically and geopolitically.
I will conclude, Madam President; it is only through a genuine European external energy policy that we will be able to avoid similar situations in the future, and therefore any new legal basis and any new institutional instrument that contributes to building this has to be... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Rapporteur for the laborious work and the openness showed in approaching the multiple aspects of a joint European policy in the field of energy.
Over the last years, we have witnessed several energy crises that have also affected the European Union.
The objectives of ensuring stable energy delivery, as well as a transparent market, have become an unquestionable priority for the European Union.
What this means is that any crisis involving a supplier and the European Union, or involving a supplier and a transit country, could have a disastrous impact on our economies and our citizens.
Member States still need to be convinced of this, to get them to give up their self-interests in favour of a common approach and the common good.
It is therefore necessary to ensure political and financial support for new infrastructure projects like the Odessa-Brody-Płock pipeline, or the Nabucco gas pipeline.
There are three pillars of external energy relations: one is supply transit (and here I work with my colleagues Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Peter Mandelson); the second pillar is clean energy and energy efficiency such as launching a global energy efficiency platform (here I work with Stavros Dimas and Janez Potočnik; and the third pillar addresses energy poverty (where I work with Louis Michel).
I believe that this report gives us a good chance of advancing the whole Union along this path.
The Energy Charter is a multilateral instrument.
For Russia, our relations on energy are definitely much bigger.
If we have Treaty provisions making provision for Union development then we should agree to a mandate - by a mandate I mean on a basis like Committee 133 for external trade policy - then on the basis of this mandate the person delegated could speak with external suppliers, transit countries, or any other participants in the energy market.
It was very interesting.
Russia is using its gas and oil clout so as to become once more a global player.
A common foreign policy on energy should not only be limited to supply and security but must also encompass two essential subjects: the emission of greenhouse gases and secondly the quest for alternative energy.
A common foreign policy on energy can only make sense in this wider context, a triangle, with supply and security at the top, climate change and alternative sources at its base.
in writing. - In our efforts to tackle climate change we should not jeopardise efforts to protect biodiversity, ecosystems and Europe's food security.
in writing. - (HU) The report entitled 'Towards a common European foreign policy on energy' makes the important point that Europe's energy supply depends to a growing extent on unstable and non-democratic countries.
It has been believed that the internal market liberalization will turn the EU into an important actor on the international energy scene, but it has been found that, in fact, the Union lacks an external and homogenous energy policy dimension.
The new reality, in which competition and liberalization are interconnected with climate changes and security of resources, generates not only external challenges (fear of energy dependence on a single supplier, which uses its position as a political weapon), but also an important internal challenge, which tests the Member States' ability to place their national interest second in order to create the premises for developing a joint and coherent energy policy.
This way, the convergent development of Member States and their neighbours is ensured and regional and interregional cooperation is encouraged, which is indispensable for making the European external energy policy more efficient.
in writing. - It is vital we ensure that the principles and goals of the EU's development policy are respected and promoted through the measures foreseen in the field of energy and foreign policy.
EU Member States and European energy companies cooperate extensively with developing countries in the field of energy, yet it is not always clear how much the citizens of these resources actually benefit.
They need assistance to be able to diversify their sources of energy to achieve a more sustainable mix.
