We shall pursue that action tirelessly. (Applause) Madam President, my intervention refers to the situation in the Ivory Coast.
The reply is clear.
Last-minute negotiations have been held with all the groups and, in my capacity as rapporteur, I should like to table a number of technical corrections on five points.
Here the groups have agreed to place 50% against the budget line and to leave 50% in the reserve, and not to put the total amount in the reserve as previously decided.
The same applies to line B3-306 for the PRINCE information campaign.
These are lines B7-5211 and B7-547.
The vote concerns an amendment tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to increase the tobacco subsidy by EUR 5 million.
Before the vote on Amendment No 929 Madam President, Mr Maat may wish to make the same comment as me.
The honourable Members can all read, Mr Heaton-Harris.
I congratulate all our rapporteurs.
Madam President, my name appears as a signatory to various amendments on this report.
The current Common Agricultural Policy is not only expensive for the Union, but also contributes to higher consumer prices.
In the matter of the external measures in category 4, we have chosen to vote according to a line which does not require revision of the Financial Perspective.
No one in the European Parliament would support discrimination or violence against women; we must remember that to deny women a voice is a form of violence against them.
Haug Report (A5-0300/2000) I voted against the Haug report, just as I voted in favour of my group' s motion to reject the general budget for 2001.
Thirdly: because the budget remains a mechanism for applying a policy which falls short on the social and development side and which has not been reorganised despite constant warnings of the fall in the euro. - (SV) As Swedish and Danish Social Democrats, we have today voted in favour of Parliament' s proposal on the EU budget for the budget year 2001.
We are firmly resolved to find the funds required in order to be able to provide increased aid for reconstruction and democratisation in the Balkans, including in Serbia, now.
Consequently, we call upon the Council to react positively to Parliament' s initiative for a common and long-term solution before the final decision on the budget is taken in December.
The EU' s agricultural policy is far too expensive.
We refer in particular to the new pilot scheme to finance information measures in the fight against paedophilia.
The Budget for 2001 still comprises obscure items that shower funds on a host of associations and cultural centres, the actual need for which is still to be fully proven.
Ferber Report (A5-0292/2000) - (SV) Where travel expense refunds for Members of the European Parliament are concerned, we maintain our view that refunds must be made only for actual costs incurred for travel on official business.
The public funds that are being spent by the EU can be better used in the Member States.
Rühle Report (A5-0251/2000) We have naturally voted against the budget for the ECSC, which until the ECSC Treaty expires will continue to rain down subsidies on shareholders in the iron and steel industry.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the ECSC Treaty will soon expire.
As the report states, unbundled access to the local loop allows new entrants to compete with notified operators in offering high bit-rate data transmission services for continuous Internet access and for multimedia applications based on digital subscriber line technology as well as voice telephony services, using local network infrastructures that have already been installed by other operators, generally public service operators.
Many have already anticipated this directive, like France Telecom.
The regulation of the sector by the law of maximum return will result in the creation of profitable and less profitable areas in the territory covered.
If 20 or more competitors are allowed to hang around in the roughly 50 exchanges belonging to the former incumbent in my small country, then we can bid farewell to confidential telephone calls and security in these exchanges.
This persecution hits the produce of small and medium-sized farmers in the south particularly hard.
The growing Dutch glasshouse horticulture, which yields a large volume of vegetables, fruit and flowers in a small space, is in a much stronger position than cereal or dairy farms.
The present report puts forward amendments on a range of points that address the interests of European production in general and of Portuguese production in particular.
I abstained because I feel that in this case, as Mr Bushill-Matthews and the English Members have said, there has been a lack of subsidiarity.
Johan Van Hecke Report (A5-0296/2000) Madam President, it is very important for the European Union to concern itself with the inhabitants of ACP - African, Caribbean and Pacific - States.
Personally, as the representative of the Pensioners Party, I am concerned at the situation of the elderly in these countries.
Moreira Da Silva Report (A5-0270/2000) The problem of global warming caused by concentrations of gases in the atmosphere which exacerbate the greenhouse effect, such as carbon dioxide, is taking on explosive proportions.
We fail to understand how it is possible to create an entire market which trades in pollution as a commodity and on which, instead of reducing their own CO2 emissions, some companies buy in surplus coverage from other companies which are within their limits.
Despite this, the governments of the richest countries with the highest emission levels of fossil combustion products have failed to bring about a drastic reduction in these emission levels.
The Member States themselves will need to drastically reduce their emission of CO2 and other greenhouse gases by focusing on renewable energy, public transport and reducing traffic levels.
Moreira Da Silva Report (A5-0271/2000) We are in favour of any tax or levy on the big industrial companies that are largely responsible for pollution in general, and atmospheric pollution in particular.
I am very keen to present my explanation of vote on this report, an explanation of what was in fact a vote in favour, because I would like to ask you, Madam President, in much the same way as I am asking myself, whether we are entirely sure that the climate changes that we are seeing have been caused by man, by industrialisation and by the emission of substances into the atmosphere.
Accepting the establishment of a market in carbon dioxide emissions at international level amounts to letting western countries duck their responsibilities by purchasing fictitious Russian emission rights or financing projects in southern countries that are completely inconsistent with their development needs, without any means of checking actual reductions in emissions.
This money should be spent by bringing into line and coordinating expenditure on research policy in all the 15 Member States of the European Union.
In modern society, with all its consumer goods, such as appliances, we need materials and substances with very specific characteristics.
In my report, I have listed systems such as IBAN, SWIFT, STEP 1 and IPI.
As I have stated in my report, this automation and standardisation process should be in place three months before the introduction of notes and coins.
The banks alone cannot reduce the total cost of transfers more or less to the level of the cost price for domestic payments.
They need the help of the Member States.
After all, banks have so far been obliged by the Member States to notify their central banks of any cross-border payments over EUR 12 500, for the benefit of balance of payment reporting statistics.
Moreover, volume and number of retail payments only form a small percentage of the total number of credit transfers.
I hope that this report will encourage banks sufficiently to continue on their path of innovation towards better functioning, cross-border credit transfers.
Madam President, since the borders between the Member States of the European Union were opened, an increasing number of firms have been taking advantage of the opportunities offered by this common market.
When the markets between the Member States of the European Union were opened up, our ambition as Members of the European Parliament was never to create access for large companies, which they had of course had for a long time already; it was always to open up this large European market to small and medium-sized businesses.
What we wish to see is not just one single transfer system - which would once again be a monopoly - but competition between different transfer systems set up by different banks and groups of banks, competition which will at long last work in favour of the public and in favour of small and medium-sized businesses.
The monthly cheque to a daughter or son in another EU country, the cross-border transfers for books or services, hotels or trips are being subjected to additional charges, despite the fact that the logistics of cross-border trade are supposed to be less complex and less expensive.
In the European Parliament in our work in committee, we also very much regretted the fact that the offer made by the European Central Bank was not accepted.
The European Central Bank could help by creating a single European data format for credit transfers and by supporting moves to create a uniform European bank sort code within the international IBAN system.
They therefore play a part in restricting freedom of movement in the internal market.
I believe that this report is of central importance if we are truly to succeed in integrating the public and small and medium-sized businesses into the euro area and for increasing public acceptance of economic and monetary union.
Living in the monetary union also means counting on a reliable cross-border credit transfer system - this is the battle cry for the remaining 432 days.
Madam President, I would like to concur with the rapporteur and her excellent report.
It is crucial for consumers to accept the euro.
The idea that transfers in two participating euro area countries will no longer be considered as an international transaction incurring international costs but as a national transfer, will need to become universally accepted.
The high bank charges involved in the completion of the internal market constitute a barrier.
In the free movement of capital involving the single currency, there should not be any restrictions or huge discrepancies.
It is a fact that banks throughout the euro area took a reserved stance before the implementation of the Directive on cross-border retail payments.
This is not some fiendish ploy by the bankers, just a technical reality temporarily resisting resolution, but bound to evolve in the right direction in time.
In every case, it is really microscopic.
I have just explained why these two problems are not linked, at least not apparently.
Of course, in the strict sense that is true, but the naïve reader, the non-specialist, thought that all the costs of cross-border payments would disappear, when in fact foreign exchange commissions only represented a small part of those costs, just a small percentage.
This is excellent work on the part of the Commission.
Although we in the European Parliament now criticise the banks we have to understand that cross-border payments account for only a six-percent slice of all payment transactions, so development of this area is an expensive investment in the eyes of the banks in relation to the benefits gained, from the point of view of the banks at least.
What we can do is compel or put pressure on the European Central Bank to invite banks to attend immediately a meeting of a working party on standardisation at which decisions could be taken regarding the technical circumstances under which costs could be reduced.
This promised benefit has not materialised; and indeed, as the Commission candidly admitted when this report was discussed in committee, no improvement is expected in the situation after the introduction of notes and coins.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I too should like to thank our colleague, Mrs Peijs, very much for her report and for being so persistent in her efforts to achieve results for the public.
On 1 January 2002, the euro will also become a reality for the public, because then we will have the euro in our pockets.
Today the average fee for transferring EUR 100 to another country in the internal market is EUR 17.10, many times more than the fees for domestic transfers.
In the future, the euro area will also feel like a domestic area and the public do not understand why in this area, in which there are no exchange-related risks and in which electronic payments with Internet banking are increasingly becoming a matter of course, transferring money from Munich to Salzburg is considerably more expensive than transferring money from Munich to Kiel.
I welcome the fact that the Commission is maintaining its pressure on the banks and that it may increase the pressure further with the action it is taking against 120 banks.
The European Central Bank should also exert increased pressure.
The proposal by Mrs Peijs and myself also seeks to bring the banks together around one table, not to lay down the law, but because we simply cannot increase the pressure any further from the political side.
After all, on that fateful day, 1 January 2002, all citizens of the euro area will have the same coins and notes in their purses and wallets.
This is why it is crucial that well before 1 January 2002, a whole host of measures are taken, so that these are in place when the new coins and notes are introduced.
The Commission will take a very close look at all the proposals made in the report.
The Commission has sent declarations of objection to banks in six Member States.
We will be exchanging ideas on this topic during the large round-table conference to be held on 9 November next in Brussels.
In the summer of 2001, the Commission will also be presenting a report on the improvement of cross-border credit transfers.
Even now, transfers take place within three days in 85% of the cases.
We cannot, on the other hand, endorse the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, because this Committee is asking us to take a legislative initiative to bring the costs of cross-border payments in line with those for domestic payments.
We can, of course, agree on the principle of this proposal, but not on the proposed working method.
The Commission and European Central Bank are in constant, and often difficult, dialogue with the banking world to achieve tangible results, and your support in this is much appreciated.
The debate is closed.
The time when the defence of business, especially small and medium-sized business, was like a corporatist battle is long gone, not just because there is only a handful of diehards left who see the world of business through the distorting prism of the class struggle, but above all because, at the start of this third millennium, everyone knows that the issues of employment and social cohesion are crucial for our societies, and business has a pre-eminent role in those issues.
In fact, it is well to bear in mind that, at both the economic and the social level, business leads.
Besides undeniably constituting the basis on which we must construct a policy on business which genuinely serves business, the Charter has the great merit not just of limiting our action to small businesses, but of making them the central point in our thinking, our priority unit of reference.
That would send out the strong and clear signal the business world needs.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you in advance for supporting my report.
Thank you on behalf of all enterprises, but also on behalf of our societies.
It really has been fun.
However, what is particularly important in this sector is that we promote a spirit of enterprise in society and that young people give more serious consideration to starting their own business or to going into smaller companies.
In this context the de minimis rule should, in any case, be re-examined and the group exemption regulation for SMEs should be revised.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after eleven years in this House, I can bear witness to the fact that debates on small and medium-sized businesses in our Parliament are neither new nor rare.
I have also asked that actions geared to specific groups like women, young people and the social economy sectors be encouraged, not forgetting employee participation in the life of these SMEs in general.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first and foremost like to express a word of thanks to the rapporteur who has indeed compiled her report with great care.
This care is more than needed if we want to establish 'Enterprise Europe' by 2005 and if we want to make the European Union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy in the world.
The amendment to the report in the Committee, partly tabled at my proposal, emphasised that the multiannual programme must be used as an instrument to promote economic growth, full employment and social cohesion.
First, every business must be included.
So it is important to make sure our action here is positive.
We need operations in the field, regional delegations the Commission, Parliament or the Council can control, as the Majo report recognised just recently.
I really hope the Commission will set up a working group on this topic, involving interested Members of Parliament.
But STOA is not really that kind of organisation and we have specific proposals to make on the subject.
Mrs Montfort, our group will give your report its wholesale support.
Mr President, Commissioner, small and medium-sized businesses, both in the manufacturing and in the service sectors, can only survive on the market if they have full order books.
Your report is excellent.
Mr President, this multiannual programme provides a European framework for the development of the innovative potential and the competitiveness of industry in the Member States.
The rapporteur has listed a number of key points in a bid to strengthen the European entrepreneurial climate.
The question does, however, arise as to how the Multiannual programme can help enterprises strengthen their competitiveness in specific terms.
You will see that the programme has been allocated around EUR 230 million; if you divide that by the 16 million small and medium-sized businesses in the European Union the result is EUR 3 per company per year.
My contact there is Magister Leitner, and if I come across a problem related to support programmes or a problem with the European institutions, then I can tell my employers that there is someone there who is competent and in the know, someone who can give information in the shortest possible time about public calls for tender, support programmes or research on infrastructure.
This is excellent for Europe because help can be given quickly and competently in the form of technically correct information.
For small companies, the three or six months which they have to wait for a piece of information to be forthcoming or for a programme to start is an endlessly long time.
Above all, when a one-man company or a company with fewer than 250 employees has a project, it should not need to provide 120% loan guarantees in the form of land to receive financing; it should also be possible for it to be funded on the basis of a good idea.
That is why associations such as NORMAPME are very important, because this is another place where a small business can seek know-how quickly and efficiently, because tenders relating to this may be on the Internet and because, quite simply, this is helpful for its everyday work.
The report does not breathe a word about that, because it would mean admitting that all the talk about small businesses is just a popularity-seeking justification for granting aid to big business.
I am the absentee boss of a very small enterprise, our family business in London.
I will not say what it does, that might constitute an advertisement, but it was founded by my father, Francis Chichester, and I am very proud of it.
I am reminded of what the Commissioner said to us a year ago about the experience in the United States, where they are not afraid of failure and they believe in the old Scottish proverb of "if at first you don't succeed, try, try again".
The nursery for small and medium-sized businesses contains several thousand experiments which feed large enterprises with manpower and ideas.
In many of the Member States, people who set up their own businesses, rather than being viewed as having created at least one job - their own - are sometimes held to be delinquents, profiteers, thieves or tax evaders.
The more we get people from small and medium-sized businesses across Parliament's threshold talking to us about issues, the better we shall be able to do our job.
The multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship will constitute a major instrument in support of European businesses.
It is primarily geared to small and medium-sized businesses.
That is why we should 'think small first' .
We need advice from the business world and other interest groups in all our efforts.
The multiannual programme will be committed to improving the modus operandi of small and medium-sized businesses.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6 p.m.
There is an urgent need, following the recent attacks on the Greek minority in Himara, to promote democratisation measures and measures to strengthen institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
Another problem is the integration, using specific means, of Albanians legally resident in the Member States.
At the same time, we need coordinated action, with the maximum cooperation of Europol, in order to put an end to trafficking and prostitution rings dealing in women and children and the actions of criminal gangs involved in trafficking in human beings, whom they then exploit through illicit employment and prostitution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I really must express my surprise that the Commission has allowed a high-level Council working group to do the work that it should, in fact, have done after Amsterdam.
A considerable number of Albanians are leaving their homeland because of the instability in their country, because of the social difficulties and because of the pre-modern structures of society and family.
I should like to say just one thing, Mrs Karamanou: if Albania is not a safe country of origin and we treat Albanian refugees differently from others, then neither can Albania claim that it wants to enter into a stability and association agreement with us.
Albania is a significant country of transit and origin for immigration into the European Union.
Firstly, the positive forces in Albania need to be supported; secondly, legal instruments need to be created for immigration from this region, which restrict or stop illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, as well as the diverse forms of crime associated with them such as illicit employment and prostitution.
Anyone who knows anything about Albania knows that it is somewhat undiplomatic to name the players in public life there, as much can happen in dealings between countries in the throes of change and an industrialised world that has cast itself in the role of aid donor.
I would particularly like to highlight the predicament of women and children in Albania.
The people are, of course, hopeful of better political representation but at present, many people still live in fear; fear of all kinds of things, fear of the outbursts of violence which flare up now and again.
New life must be injected into the economy and a sound ecological policy must be put in place.
Persecutors must be punished.
Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the extensive, wide-angled approach in your report.
The situation was exacerbated when action by political forces lavishly supported by the European Union resulted in the pyramid scandal in 1997 and robbed the people of their savings and, at the same time, shattered any confidence in the structures and organisation of the Albanian state.
The whole situation was made worse by events in Kosovo and the NATO bombings, which exacerbated the problems in the region.
The first concerns structures and procedures in Albania and is even more important following recent events and incidents during the municipal elections, incidents directed mainly at the Greek minority living in Albania.
Mr President, I welcome the fact that an action plan has been drawn up for Albania and I also welcome my colleague's - Mrs Karamanou's - committed report.
On the basis of her analysis of the political and economic situation in Albania, it is possible for us to reach a better understanding of the causes of the migratory movements and to develop corresponding measures.
The toughest possible action needs to be taken against trafficking in human beings - in particular in small children - and the exploitation of people for illicit work and prostitution.
The main area of focus must not be how the flood of immigrants and refugees may be brought under control, but how conditions in the region can be improved so that people can stay in their homes.
The situation of the Kosovo Albanians has long been very difficult, and it is a great relief that, at last, their rights are being recognised.
The EU CARDS programme is of the utmost importance in this situation, as, without a system of administration that functions properly, nothing works.
Mr President, when about two months ago I proposed that Paragraph 6 of the report should include a reference to the need to improve the security and protection of ethnic minorities and the rapporteur, whom I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate on her work, accepted my proposal, I was of course thinking of the generally poor record of this country in its dealings with minorities on its territory, especially the Greek minority.
In all Albania's neighbouring countries - apart from Kosovo, where the Albanians are in a majority - we have Albanian minorities, and we can demonstrate here what the EU's standards on minorities are.
But the problem is that we have fought for this very point, and neither in this House nor in the European Union have we achieved a majority in favour of a system of burden-sharing based on quotas.
Since 1991, Albania has been granted a total of 750 million euros in multi-sectoral aid within the framework of the PHARE programme.
In the last two years the country has been granted an additional 250 million euros in humanitarian aid under the ECHO programme.
The General Affairs Council adopted the first five action plans last October, and they concern Somalia, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Morocco, and Iraq.
The European Council at Tampere urged the Council and the Commission to report on the progress of the Working Group' s work in December this year.
The report will discuss the action programme for Albania and its neighbouring regions in detail.
The Commission is playing an active part in compiling the report.
I wish to raise three points for consideration, which the Commission regards as particularly important.
We also want to thank the Member States for their input with regard to this work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6 p.m.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market explicitly calls on the Commission to resist the legislative pressure to which it has itself objected.
We are helped here by the principle of subsidiarity which, in the view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, should also be applied when deciding whether to make a particular matter the subject of internal market legislation.
We ask the Commission here quite specifically to observe the clear demarcation of responsibilities both between the EU and the Member States and within the institutions.
I would ask you to help us to send out this signal, and to vote in favour of this report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Nevertheless, my group tabled a large number of amendments both in committee and in the plenary, and the fact that it did so is no reflection on the quality of the report, but because we are, after all - particularly on the issue of the scope of the principle of subsidiarity - of a different political opinion.
Firstly because, in view of the forthcoming enlargement, we are in especial need of a strong European Union if we want to help the future new Member States and their peoples, and also if we want to overcome the many crucial tests facing us in our Member States.
This is particularly true of the principle of subsidiarity, but it also applies to the quality of legislation.
Instead of having abstract arguments about general principles, we should consider the necessity of individual projects more often in this House and we should also invest more time and resources in legislative quality.
All too often, however, we are forced to conclude that this European legislation is packaged in a language which is too technical, too legal and too complex, so much so that this European legislation becomes unusable, as a result of which the intended goal, namely to make legislation in the European Union transparent and unambiguous, is not achieved.
I was delighted to note that Amendments Nos 3, 4, 5 and 6, which I tabled myself, have been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
But here two different traditions of thought come together.
For 2000 years or more people have been safely drinking the water from the burns (the little rivers), and now they are prohibited from doing so.
It is, however, also true that there are some public goods that can be pursued only at the most general level and there are, indeed, aspects of environment protection, aspects of species protection, for example, aspects also of single market law, aspects of law against protectionism, aspects of law to govern the Internet, which can only be approached at a level at least as general as the European level.
The principle of subsidiarity, properly understood, points us in both directions: take decisions at the lowest level possible, but acknowledge that the lowest level possible may be indeed a very high level, when general goods are at stake that will be lost unless protected on the same terms everywhere.
It is a constitutional principle and, like all constitutional principles, it has on the one side a political impact when we, the legislator, decide what law to make; but it has, on the other hand, a legal impact when it comes to the question of how the courts should interpret and apply the law.
For 290 years, however, Scots law, which remained a distinct body of law mid-way between the civil law of continental Europe and the common law of England and the Americas, retained a distinct system but was legislated only from Westminster.
But it is important to bear in mind the interests of subsidiarity at levels below the Member States, as well as between the Member States and the Union, and there is no reason at all why the constitutional principle that is at stake cannot be interpreted widely and generously at all levels of this great Union.
Mr President, I think we should be very pleased with the quality of this report.
In conclusion, I would say that while I find certain amendments very constructive, I wonder about the logic of certain others which seem to ignore the reality and importance of a principle enshrined in the Treaties.
Let us take, shall we say, six clear examples and look at how they have been transposed in detail, how they operate within the countries, how they are being enforced and make a really clear and transparent assessment of the effectiveness of the legislation, because if legislation is not effective, then we have all wasted our time.
The second paragraph of Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is utterly unintelligible.
The poor Commission has made a very commendable effort with the documents 'Better Lawmaking 1998' and 'Better Lawmaking 1999' , in which it tries to be tolerant with this nonsense approved by the governments in the Treaty on European Union and the added Protocol.
The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market did not gain much enthusiasm from its Members.
The proof is that, of the 17 Members on the Committee, 8 voted in favour and 9 abstained.
The subsidiarity concept as put forward in the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is a concept which has been exalted to heavenly heights, and therefore as a theological principle it lies beyond the scope of the Community.
We have submitted 12 amendments to the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
We also support Amendment No 13 by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
I drew up an opinion within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs which in principle was linked to this report, but it ended up referring to a different report on the SLIM project.
As regards the rest, Mr President, the report deals with other issues that are not on the same level.
Codification and simplification are important and laudable issues, but only a matter of good legal technique.
I would therefore ask the Commission to provide us next year with a report on the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity with all its consequences, and another report on the implementation of good administrative and legislative techniques.
Mr President, thank you for allowing me, as rapporteur for this report, to make one additional comment on Amendment No 8 which was tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
I also agree with the report and views expressed in the discussion here that enlargement will present a major challenge vis-à-vis the quality of legislation, owing to the economic, social and legal problems which the new Member States will bring with them.
Actually, this screening of the existing acquis communautaire is often a very useful exercise in showing that it is not always necessary to legislate at Community level or whether a law is too detailed for legislation at the Community level.
I will take a very personal position by saying that there can be new types of governance here, where regulation and self-regulation can be complementary and not alternatives.
There are also other areas of the internal market regulations which are very complicated.
I hope that this report, which we Commissioners were given last year, will in future include subsidiarity, better regulation and assessment of alternatives, while respecting the legislative authority of the Council and Parliament.
Finally, I want to take into account the criticism which we have seen in Parliament's report.
I hope that we can continue this debate so that it is not only a routine matter on Thursday afternoon but part of the central debate on Community legislation as a whole.
The debate is closed.
A survey in the 11 countries of the euro area has shown that consumers still have to pay costs of an average of EUR 17.10 to transfer EUR 100 between Member States.
If, in 15 months' time, the same coins and notes are introduced in 11 Member States, it will be more expensive to get hold of that single currency outside the country in which you live.
Karamanou report (A5-0287/2000) Mr President, we took a great deal of care over preparing the Karamanou report in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
