Explanations of vote (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain my vote on the European Parliament resolution on stepping up the Union's disaster response capacity.
The Barnier report challenges us to take practical steps and in this regard the Commission communication shows the way forward.
I welcome the resolution by Mrs Arlene McCarthy, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the 40th anniversary of the Customs Union and I voted in favour of it.
The fishing industry is in crisis, with fuel prices having increased by more than 300% in the last five years while prices for fish are similar to those paid 20 years ago.
Thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain the way I voted on this important debate.
Madam President, I do not want to speak on this item but the previous item.
Relations between the European Union and Russia are of enormous importance for stability, economic growth and security in Europe and the whole world.
These relations took on a new dimension after the EU's enlargement with another 12 countries, principally from central and eastern Europe.
The goat, sheep and lamb sectors are in crisis and they certainly cannot afford to have further costs foisted upon them.
in writing. - (PT) The transport of dangerous goods has been discussed many times, and safety standards have gradually been clarified and simplified as a result.
in writing. - (NL) I fully support this report.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be voting for Mr Markov's report.
in writing. - British Conservatives know how devastating the effects of a natural disaster can be.
In supporting this resolution in the final vote, we wish to make clear that we have also voted in favour of the amendments which called for the deletion of references to the Civil Protection Force and further EU legislation in this area.
in writing. - (IT) I am voting firmly in favour of this motion for a resolution on stepping up the European Union's disaster response capacity.
As a member of this Parliament's Committee on Development, I have had the opportunity to visit some of the world's poorest and most disaster-prone areas, in some cases struck (as in the case of the tsunami) by catastrophic natural disasters.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the Commission's initiative in finally producing a document on improving the coherence, effectiveness and visibility of the EU's reaction to natural or man-made disasters.
in writing. - Whereas we fully support cooperation between the Member States to prevent the import of dangerous toys, drugs and other illegal or dangerous products, and whereas we fully support cooperation with trading partners to this end, we cannot vote in favour of this resolution due to the severe impact of the Customs Union on developing countries' trade.
in writing. - (PL) The report that has been adopted on a European Charter on the Rights of Energy Consumers significantly increases the rights of energy consumers.
The Charter is a very important step in the liberalisation of the energy market.
I voted for amendments 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 submitted by the Group of European Specialists.
The protection of energy consumers should rely on joint actions of the Union and Member States in the future as well.
The European Charter on the Rights of Energy Consumers is a way to support the citizens in order for them to obtain information about their rights in a more efficient and simple way.
in writing. - (SV) The chlorination of chicken has not proved harmful to health or harmful in any other way, and our policy decisions should always be evidence-based.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights one of the most pressing issues facing the EU internally and externally.
in writing. - The Commission proposal to lift the ban on the importation of poultry treated with anti-microbial substances such as chlorine is extremely worrying.
The Commission must re-examine its original decision, which is based exclusively on commercial criteria and results in a crime against public health and consumer protection.
in writing. - (FR) The dramatic rise in the price of diesel oil, 300% since 2003 has made its full impact felt in the fisheries sector.
In calling for the official aid ceiling to be raised to EUR 100 000 per vessel and not per undertaking, in calling for the immediate application of emergency and social support measures and, lastly, in demanding the reorganisation of European Fund expenditure for fisheries, MEPs have made it clear to fishers that they have heard their distress call.
The Council of European fisheries ministers will be discussing these proposals on 23 and 24 June 2008.
The domination of Gazprom in the energy sector will lead to another increase in energy prices in Europe.
in writing. - (PL) The complex relations between the European Union and Russia require well-managed and coherent diplomatic action.
in writing. - (PT) We voted in favour of this report, which contains several important proposals for protecting sheep and goat products, particularly in less favoured areas and mountain regions.
It is nevertheless essential for the European Commission and the Council to take account of these approved proposals and the debate in plenary, where we also explained our positions on this very important issue.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as it highlights the problems in the sheep sector, which is in terminal decline unless action is taken.
In relation to the proposal for a task force, which was rejected by Parliament, there is now an onus on the Commission to upgrade its focus on the sheep sector and to report to the Parliament on progress or otherwise in implementing the proposals in this report.
These systems use information and communication technologies with a view to increasing road safety and reducing the number of accidents on our roads. 'eSafety' is the first step in the 'Intelligent Car' initiative launched in 2006 by the European Commission.
The Galileo programme also represents a significant contribution in this area.
Taking into account that, according to the statistics, there are 41 600 deaths on European roads every year, we need to launch a new era in the road sector.
in writing. - My colleague, Zita Gurmai, has produced an excellent report and needs to be congratulated on her detailed work and the commitment she has shown.
The first intelligent car report is a flagship project within the Commission's strategic policy framework for information society and the media, and our rapporteur is right to recognise that intelligent vehicle systems could reduce the annual death toll, currently around 42 000, on the roads of the EU.
in writing. - (PL) The Intelligent Car Initiative is a very valuable initiative.
