In two statements on 12 and 14 March, the criminalisation of the peaceful 'Prayers Meeting', which took place in Harare on 11 March, was condemned, and the release demanded of those persons under arrest, along with a call for legal and medical aid to be granted.
In its note dated 13 March 2007, the German embassy in Harare, on behalf of all EU partners, emphatically called on the Zimbabwean Government to observe the principles of the constitution.
At the behest of the EU, in its debate on 29 March, the UN Human Rights Council dealt exclusively with Zimbabwe.
In a declaration supported by 50 countries in total, the EU made it perfectly clear where it stood in relation to the current situation in Zimbabwe and called on the Mugabe Government to respect law and order, defend human rights and cooperate with the UN's human rights mechanisms.
At a special summit on 28 and 29 March 2007, its Heads of Government acknowledged their regional responsibility in the Zimbabwe conflict for the first time.
The Secretary General of the SADC will present a report on the economic situation in Zimbabwe.
The principal demands placed on Mugabe by the SADC are to keep to the date set for the Presidential elections in 2008 and to cease repression of the opposition.
On 30 March, the central committee of the Zanu-PF party decided to hold Presidential elections in March 2008 and to bring forward the Parliamentary elections, originally scheduled for 2010, to 2008 as well.
It has branded members of the Tsvangirai wing of the MDC opposition party terrorists and, in so doing, is trying to drive a wedge between the opposition which united for the first time following the March unrest.
Already by the end of 2006, the party congress of the Zanu-PF party had demonstrated that Mugabe's position was no longer undisputed.
Their impressive, even oppressive, presence in front of the central committee's session building certainly had an impact on the decision-making process of politburo members in favour of Mugabe's appointment as a Presidential candidate.
In its communiqué following the special summit in March, the SADC called on the EU to put an end to sanctions.
The Commission therefore welcomed the Extraordinary Summit of Heads of States of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), which took place on 28 and 29 March 2007 in Dar es Salaam.
The regional leaders decided to engage in the resolution of the Zimbabwe crisis by appointing the South African President, Thabo Mbeki, as a mediator.
We have expressed our views in some 16 resolutions in recent years, but the Mugabe regime persistently reminds us that no matter how bad the situation, it can always make matters tragically worse.
He went into the SADC summit expecting endorsement of his policies, but instead left with a flea in his ear and the appointment of South African President Mbeki as facilitator of the dialogue between Zanu-PF and the opposition.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, if a specific country is often mentioned in Parliament it is a bad sign, as it means that the human rights situation in that country must be serious.
Two people were killed and 300 were arrested.
One fifth of its population is infected with HIV, and there 3 200 new cases every week.
This regime is founded on a campaign that is absurd and criminal in equal measure, as a result of which since 2000, thousands of productive farms have been confiscated from their white owners and handed over to Mugabe's incompetent and indifferent figureheads, resulting in a large-scale famine.
The correspondent R.W.
Arnold Tsunga, chairman of the human rights organisation Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition, used identical words to describe the situation.
My message to the Council, the Commission, and to this House, is that this indictment of cunning, implicit genocide should never give us one moment's peace until such time as it can be withdrawn. (DE) Madam President, Mr Pafilis, four minutes ago, you gave the most cynical speech on Zimbabwe which has been heard in this House since 1999.
Unfortunately, the power of the regimes in these very countries is still sufficient to hit out at the population, as happened most recently on 11 March.
My thanks go to the Council which clearly expressed its views on the Council situation on 13 and 18 March and in the General Council as well on 23 April, and also expanded the list of travel bans imposed on leading supporters of the regime.
At least the SADC has recognised that there is a crisis in Zimbabwe and has employed President Mbeki as a mediator.
President Mbeki must play the role of mediator in a credible fashion.
This respect for the people of Zimbabwe now provides the main moral imperative to support the fight for democracy and the rule of law in Zimbabwe.
The European Parliament supports all actions to foster democracy and the rule of law in Zimbabwe.
The debate is closed.
