Financing of the Special Court for Sierra Leone The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on the financing of the Special Court for Sierra Leone.
The role of the aforementioned institutions has developed further in the era of globalisation, especially in areas where national leaders are unable to establish a central authority around governments based on the rule of law and ensure the fundamental security of the inhabitants concerned.
The Special Court for Sierra Leone is making a significant contribution to the cause of peace and justice in the Mano River region of West Africa.
author. - (PL) Mr President, it so happens that the next round of parliamentary elections is due to take place in Sierra Leone this coming weekend.
The prestige of the administration of cross-border justice really does depend on the Special Court for Sierra Leone sentencing Charles Taylor, the former President of Liberia, and on it investigating 17 allegations of crimes against humanity and war crimes, including murders and sexual offences.
author. - Mr President, those who strongly support the respect for human rights - Members of this House included - have fought hard to ensure that a Special Court for Sierra Leone was set up and notorious killers, like Charles Taylor and his criminal mob, faced trial and punishment.
The Court also took a historic decision in 2004 to refuse to recognise the applicability of a national amnesty for the perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity.
The sum required to allow proceedings against the most notorious criminals to continue is less than USD 90 million.
I hereby call on all the Member States and on the Commission to provide funds to support the Special Court for Sierra Leone as soon as possible.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I fully support all those who have appealed for this job to be seen through to the end and for justice to de dispensed in Sierra Leone.
The Special Court will be supported in 2008 by the new European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights, which was adopted in the context of the new Financial Framework 2007-2013.
The amount of EUR 600 000 has been reserved in the annual action plan from the 2007 budget.
