President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2005 the European Parliament's resolution requesting the formation of a Temporary Committee on the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners reaffirmed, and I quote: 'its determination in the fight against terrorism but stresses that this fight cannot be won by sacrificing the very principles that terrorism seeks to destroy, notably that the protection of fundamental rights must never be compromised'.
I would reiterate that the fight against terrorism cannot compromise our values and principles on the protection of fundamental rights.
Our most powerful weapon and our most effective protection are our values and principles on the protection of our fundamental rights.
I would remind you of the full and transparent cooperation offered by the Portuguese Government, both during the investigations made by this Parliament's Temporary Committee, which completed its work in February of this year, and in relation to the initiatives of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe under Article 52 of the European Convention on Human Rights in relation to the alleged CIA flights and illegal detention centres in Europe.
We have consistently argued that the protection of the fundamental values of international law requires a serious and in-depth dialogue on human rights in the context of the fight against terrorism.
For our part, the Portuguese Government has not only carried out this sometimes difficult and very slow process of data collection, but has also set up a working group to assess the numerous procedures and propose improvements, the importance of which was duly recognised by the final report adopted by this Parliament in February.
I must point out that we regarded the work carried out by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe as particularly important and we took due note of the reports produced by Mr Marty.
We are all aware that the members of the European Union, all of them, are obliged to comply with the important principles of the Convention on Human Rights, especially Articles 5 and 6.
One point must be clear, but it has been clearly stated several times, both in the report by Mr Fava and in the Council of Europe report: a parliamentary report can set out facts, but Parliament naturally has neither the power nor the duty to conduct a judicial inquiry.
It is in the interest of an accused party, in my opinion, for there to be a very clear answer.
If there had already been, as there should have been, a European agreement - which we have signed but not yet ratified - then the rules on the extradition of prisoners from and to the United States would have been a lot clearer.
To conclude, Mr President, I think that this is a topic that we must continue to discuss, bearing in mind the rule of law as a principle and of course respect for fundamental rights; but fundamental rights also include the right not to come under accusation except on the basis of evidence gathered according to the proper procedures.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Group has expressed valid criticism of the Marty report and voted overwhelmingly against the Fava report.
The United States has undoubtedly made mistakes; in some cases it has violated human rights, but it is very easy not to make mistakes when one does nothing to combat terrorism.
One such sign was recalled by Mr Gawronski: President Bush decreed on 20 July that his administration would continue to have recourse to unlawful CIA activity in the form of extrajudicial seizure and detention of suspected terrorists in willing third countries.
It is not true that the Council has no powers, Mr Lobo Antunes; the Council has the powers conferred on it by Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty.
An own-initiative report in the Committee on Civil Liberties will be our contribution to combating terrorism in a way that is respectful of human rights always, everywhere and for everyone; the number-one human right, as Cesare Beccaria taught us centuries ago, being the presumption of innocence.
It is shameful to see the Council as an institution and all its members acting in a collective fashion, collectively availing themselves of the law used by defendants in court.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) The Fava report was based on circumstantial evidence and instead of firm conclusions it simply created a feeling of suspicion towards Member States.
Mr Dick Marty, the Council of Europe rapporteur, also presented a second report in July this year.
I am sad to say that he applies this criticism to my own country, the Federal Republic of Germany, and to Italy, in particular.
I draw your attention to Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaties.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would describe what we have experienced during the so-called 'war on terror' as a method of 'outsourcing' human rights abuses.
Secret prisons have been operated, as President Bush himself has admitted, and Europe's governments have simply looked away as the CIA has committed systematic human rights abuses on their sovereign territory.
Dick Marty has worked with very great commitment here, and I would like to express my thanks to him.
The European Parliament and the Council of Europe have rightly underlined this fact, and I expect the Council and the Commission also to uphold this principle without restrictions and, above all, to be guided by it in their actions.
I now turn to Mr Marty's report on the possible secret prisons in Poland and Romania.
I welcome the announcement by Commissioner Frattini that there is to be a report on the effectiveness of anti-terrorism measures and on respect for human rights.
The excellent work done by this House deserves respect, and surely a sign of respect should come first and foremost from the Council. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Committee have done our work.
The kidnappers - and that is exactly what the CIA agents who abducted Khaled al-Masri in Skopje are - must be handed over.
Finally, I also agree with those who say 'yes' to extradition between the United States and the European Union; not, however, just for those whom the United States considers to be suspects, but also when countries of the European Union request the extradition of CIA agents. (PL) Mr President, the previous speaker referred to President Bush.
Parliament's report refers to the CIA prisons that might have been located in American military bases in Europe.
It is obvious that there is a huge gap here between practising and preaching.
It is clear that human rights must be fought for all over again every day.
Let us continue to act as watchdogs and ensure that not a single innocent person becomes a casualty of the so-called war on terrorism. (PT) Before the day in September 2006 when President Bush confirmed the existence of secret prisons in third countries, the Portuguese Government had regarded as reliable the guarantees given by Washington that the sovereignty or legality of its European allies had not been violated.
However, it has now been proven that over 100 stopovers were made at Portuguese airports by aircraft involved in the rendition programme.
The Portuguese Government did not provide the national parliament or the European Parliament with the oft-requested list of civilian or military flights to and from Guantanamo that passed over Portuguese territory.
However, they were recorded and the list compiled included 94 overflights and 17 stopovers specifically by US civilian and military aircraft between January 2002 and the end of June 2006.
I represent a party that is in opposition to the present government and was also in opposition to the previous one.
Mr President, turning a blind eye to torture and breaches of human rights by a state will not defeat terrorism.
I regret to say that Ireland facilitated the landing of 147 CIA-operated planes in Ireland, some of which we know were involved in the rendition of prisoners.
In particular I cannot agree with the speech made by one Member from my country who, in her speech, referred exclusively to the situation in Portugal.
However, despite these differences of opinion, I am sure that we are all agreed on the essential point, which is that we are engaged in a war against terrorism in the name of freedom and that we can only win this war in freedom.
As regards the transatlantic relations which have been mentioned, the Council reiterates that, in general, in the fight against terrorism, generalised internal security measures, not limited to one Member State of the European Union, can only be put into practice in the framework of very strict cooperation with the US.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone in this House can have any doubt that these actions are unlawful.
It is one more reason because that inclusion, that institutional reference to the Charter of rights, will give the EU institutions powers - including that of supervision and of taking action before the Court - in sectors which are absolutely crucial to all of us in our everyday lives.
The debate is closed. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to know whether it is possible to have Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty annexed to the minutes of our debate.
We have just heard from the Council that Articles 6 and 7 are confined to a statement of principles.
As you know, Article 6 sets out principles, while Article 7 sets out actions to safeguard those principles.
