Information concerning food enzymes and additives must include a proper description and must be clearly legible and it must also be easy for consumers to understand. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
The European Council and the European Parliament have jointly decided to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020, and in fact its international agreements stipulate a reduction of 30%, then 60% or 80% by 2050.
In order to achieve these targets, all emitters, all industries and even we humans, on behalf of our households, have to make major efforts.
However, we do not live in a perfect world, the amount of fuel is falling and the price of fuel is rising, but we have to do something today in order to halt climate change.
The result is an integrated conceptual text that is perfectly valid for the inclusion of aviation in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, thereby abolishing by the end of 2012 today's system of giving advantages to air traffic in relation to ground-based traffic.
We have not in fact strengthened Europe's position; we have handicapped it and we have done it one-sidedly, which is why I am against the common position.
What we need to see is an engagement of Members of this Parliament in the procedures in the debates.
That is the reason why I voted as I did. - (DE) Mr President, like lemmings the majority of the Members of this House stumble from one Corbett reform to the next and each of these Corbett reforms means less democracy and fewer rights for the Members of this Parliament.
This typical example of Socialist faultfinding is in any case unworthy of this Parliament and indeed of any parliament! - (NL) This Parliament really does pull out all the stops to reinforce the image of the Eurocracy, as a kind of totalitarian doctrine that no longer tolerates any opposition.
As an individual with slightly different views to the big group that I sit within, I am pretty much excluded from giving speeches in the course of the main debate, and that surely is a reason why in this place we should encourage more democracy, more smaller groups, and giving powers to individual Members.
Every time I see a Corbett report, I think to myself that in reality Richard Corbett is to the European Parliament what Wormtongue was to King Théoden in Lord of the Rings.
The Irish people in their great wisdom have rejected that Treaty by democratic vote, and although people in Brussels and people here in Strasbourg will work and cajole and bribe and intrigue to try and persuade the Irish to change their minds, the decision of the people should prevail, and in this case Ireland has stood for the people of Europe.
In all those matters I have great respect for the rapporteur, but I wonder whether anybody else in this place pays any attention to the budget, apart from the small number of budget geeks who exist in just a couple of committees in this place. (LT) As you know, more than half a year ago several hundred thousand EU citizens submitted a petition to our Parliament on the environmental impact of the Nord Stream gas pipeline and today, more than half a year later, they have received the European Parliament's answer, learned its position on this important issue.
I am truly grateful to all Members who, with their votes, have made it clear that, firstly, the European Union needs gas and, secondly, EU citizens living near the Baltic Sea are responsible for preserving the sea for future generations. (RO) First of all, allow me to thank all the colleagues who have voted for the Libicki report today.
This is our moral responsibility, and I say to Mr Matsakis that I am opposed to the construction of a pipeline through the Baltic Sea. (PL) Mr President, I would like to express my very great satisfaction at this House's almost unanimous approval of the report on the effects of the planned construction of the so-called Baltic pipeline, linking Russia and Germany through the natural environment of the Baltic Sea.
Particularly on this issue, Europe should show a united front. - (DE) Mr President, the former German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, who is now being paid to head the advisory committee of the Baltic Pipeline scheme, was already pushing for this project when he was head of government.
As a German Member of this Parliament, I therefore voted in favour of the Libicki report and against the ill-considered construction of the Baltic pipeline. - (DE) Mr President, I believe that we now at last have found a text that we can reasonably accept.
As a former minister responsible for drugs, I believe that greater coordination to effectively combat illegal drug trafficking is needed among all EU Member States and also with other states surrounding Afghanistan. (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report because one would have to be blind not to see that a vipers' nest of opposition to the democratic world exists in Afghanistan.
That is why Europe must stand shoulder to shoulder with the United States in this venture. - (DE) Mr President, the brilliant foreign-policy strategist Franz Josef Strauss, whose death exactly 20 years ago we shall be commemorating on 3 October this year, always said that if you button up your jacket wrongly you have to undo it again in order to button it up correctly.
I would therefore simply appeal to all those involved to adopt a fresh political approach in Afghanistan and not to drive the Pashtuns into the arms of what is left of the Taliban by lumping Pashtuns and Taliban all in together.
As Europeans we know all about the problems of nationality, possibly even better than others.
I cannot believe the general cheek of this place even talking about this subject, when you consider how many of our Member States have got their troops in frontline action in Afghanistan.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed Polish colleague Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, who proposes approving at first reading of the codecision procedure the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the 2006 Regulation laying down general provisions establishing a European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
in writing. - (RO) I supported the adoption of the general provisions regarding the establishment of a European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
This system is technically referred to as 'coupled' and as Malta has opted for the implementation of fully decoupled payments I voted in favour on the basis of an issue which is in the national interest.
The current crisis in the food sector also clearly shows how important agricultural self-sufficiency is for any country.
We should therefore be providing greater support for our own small farmers and more especially for our organic farmers too.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my Polish colleague Dariusz Rosati, I voted in favour of the legislative resolution that amends, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the proposal for a Council directive amending various provisions of Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax.
Pursuant to Article 171 of the EC Treaty, the Community may set up joint undertakings or any other structure necessary for the efficient execution of Community research, technological development and demonstration programmes and will be very likely do so increasingly in the future.
in writing. - (FR) As my group's shadow rapporteur, I voted in favour of the Rosati report on the amendment of certain provisions concerning the common system of value added tax.
in writing. - I support the recommendations contained within the Rosati report.
in writing. - (PT) The report aims to further the 2003 Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment to the 1991 UN/ECE Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context (SEA Protocol).
In this context, the European Community intends to implement Article 13 of the SEA Protocol to the Espoo Convention through the impact assessment procedures set out in the Communications on Impact Assessment which address, in a balanced manner, the economic, social and environmental components of sustainable development.
I voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
Bearing in mind that for several decades there has been a policy of free movement of persons between Switzerland and Liechtenstein, it was vital to associate Liechtenstein with this Agreement.
in writing. - I voted against this report as a gesture to protest against the failure of the Commission and the Council to act to deal with the problems of tax havens in Europe.
in writing. - (PT) The current Regulation lays down a uniform format for visas but has not led to unique visa numbering in the Member States.
in writing. - Today Parliament voted in favour of the health and protection of EU consumers.
in writing. - I welcome Asa Westlund's proposal for a regulation establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings.
I voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote against Amendments 14-19.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I supported the report by Mrs Westlund, as I agree with the rapporteur that the laws on artificial food additives need to be consolidated.
in writing. - (PT) We must strive for greater transparency in the process of approving food additives as well as strengthen consumer protection and, in particular, the protection of those consumers who are intolerant to certain substances.
in writing. - I voted in support of Ms Westlund's report on food additives.
Including these dangers on labelling is an important step to protect consumers from the adverse effects these additives can cause, such as hyperactivity in children.
This is the reason why I welcome and voted in favour of the report by the rapporteur, Ms Åsa Westlund, which offers a new approach to the European policy for the protection of human health and prevention of illnesses, especially in children.
in writing. - I support wholeheartedly attempts that are being made by this report to label products that use additives containing Azo colours.
in writing. - I welcome Mojca Drčar Murko's report on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods.
I voted in favour of the report.
It is essential to guarantee a high level of food safety.
in writing. - Ms Doyle's report seeks to harmonise the control of food enzymes.
in writing. - I have abstained in order to bring to attention that this report does not take into consideration the difference which exists between island states and mainland.
The effect on families, for instance, from the UK has been estimated to increase by 160 £ as a result of the legislation coming into force.
in writing. - (FR) I supported the report by Peter Liese on the inclusion of aviation in the ETS system because I feel that the compromise reached between Parliament and the Council is balanced and realistic.
I welcome the legislation we have adopted as it respect these imperatives.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Peter Liese's report on the recommendation for second reading of the proposal to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading because I feel it is essential and urgent to limit the global temperature rise to +2°C.
Carbon dioxide emissions from aircraft have risen by 87% since 1990 and it is estimated that they will double by 2020.
Measures are therefore needed in order to give a clear signal at international level that the EU is committed to the fight against climate change, bearing in mind the conclusion of an international agreement before the Copenhagen Conference in 2009.
The compromise voted on today does not avoid all the negative consequences of this trading scheme, but it does minimise a number of them, by postponing the date of entry into force with regard to Parliament's original proposal and by reducing the scope of auctioning and the pressure on weaker companies.
We therefore insist that not only flights between islands, but also flights between the islands and the continent should be excluded from this allowance trading scheme.
in writing. - (RO) It is clear that, for each commitment period in the Union's programme in which aviation is included, it is required that the objectives assigned to this sector be established in convergence with and according to the average efforts required of all the other fixed-source sectors in all the Member States.
The non-participation of the aviation sector in this system could cause important compensatory costs on long-term.
in writing. - (FR) I abstained during the final vote on the Liese report.
I believe that the European Union is taking a unilateral step outside the Kyoto Protocol, which excludes the aviation and maritime sectors.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (SK) Gas emissions from aircraft have doubled since 1990 and are continuing to increase.
It is necessary to conclude an international agreement, and for that reason the EU must negotiate with the US, Russia and China.
I believe that the common position of the European Parliament and of the Council will contribute towards clean aircraft and the introduction of new technologies in the aviation industry, and that is why I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (FR) By adopting today a directive aimed at including air traffic in the European emissions trading scheme, the European Union is continuing to score points in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - I will be supporting the Liese report today because the report is balanced and practical, if somewhat complicated.
The compromise before us is far from ideal but it is a step forward, so we Greens can also support the agreement that has been reached.
in writing. - (SV) We have today voted against the report on changes to the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
However, this decision is only one element in the more general anti-democratic line taken by a majority of this House, particularly among the larger political groups (PPE and PSE).
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my German colleague Jutta Haug on the first reflections on the preliminary draft budget (PDB) and mandate for the conciliation, which provides a framework for reflection on the structure of the EU's future budget.
in writing. - (PL) According to the planned ratification timetable for the Lisbon Treaty, in 2009 Parliament and the Council would have equal rights as regards the creation of laws as well as in budgetary matters, on the way to giving the European Union new powers and making fundamental changes in the budgetary procedure used to date.
For this reason it is even more important for the European Union to have the financial resources required to implement current policies and activities in different areas, while at the same time having sufficient flexibility to deal with new political challenges.
in writing. - I believe that no EU budget programmes should be funded by my country under any actual or potential circumstances.
The European External Action Service and all other aspects of the Lisbon Treaty are completely anathema to me.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Haug report on the 2009 PDB and mandate for conciliation.
I also voted in favour of Amendment 15, which notes the margin under heading 2.
in writing. - I could not support this amendment because I completely oppose the creation and funding of the EEAS and other such programmes reliant on the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
in writing. - (RO) As Rapporteur on the Black Sea Synergy, I would like to express my support for the LIBICKI report for the simple reason that the theme it approaches has a strategic nature, exceeding the Baltic Sea area and the environmental protection field.
In fact, we discussed an issue that is common both to the Baltic Sea region and to the Black Sea region and which affects all of Europe: the issue of energy security and the European policy in this respect.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote for Marcin Libicki's report on the planned gas pipeline under the Baltic Sea, although we wanted a clearer call for the investigation of an alternative route over land.
in writing. - (RO) I welcome the position that the European Parliament has adopted regarding the construction of a gas pipeline to connect Russia to Germany.
The European Union needs an integrated, common and coherent energy policy, as well as a long-term strategy to ensure the Member States' energy independence.
At the same time, the solution of a European common energy policy could supplement the incapacity of the Bucharest right-wing governing people to promote Romania's energy interests in the relationship with Russia.
The answer is simple: for some countries and politicians this particular project is more important than the environment.
These views are reflected in my vote on Marcin Libicki's report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea to link up Russia and Germany.
in writing. - (PL) Today we shall be voting on a very important report on the impact of the planned construction of the so-called Baltic Pipeline linking Russia and Germany on the natural environment of the Baltic Sea.
This, the longest and shallowest gas mains pipeline in the world, poses a serious threat to biodiversity and natural habitats, as well as to the safety and movement of shipping in this region, not to mention the approximately 80 000 MT of ammunition sunk here during the Second World War.
We should pay attention to assessments of any alternative solutions, such as land routes, which should take into account construction costs as well as ecological safety.
in writing. - I welcome the fact that the Committee on Petitions took this initiative to bring this report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea to a vote.
in writing. - The European Parliamentary Labour Party welcomes this Parliament report.
That figure is now 6 million and rising.
in writing - (RO) Stabilizing Afghanistan represents a key security policy challenge for the international community and the fight against terrorism.
Military operations are necessary, but they are not a sufficient requirement to stabilize Afghanistan.
For this purpose, strengthening democratic structures is extremely important and the international community should fight against the marginalization of the Afghan government by increasing the importance of the political system and democratic actors at local and regional level.
in writing. - I abstained on this vote.
in writing. - (FR) The positive results of the recent donors' conference in Paris are proof that the EU and the international community have their eyes fixed on Afghanistan.
It is essential to build additional basic infrastructures, be they roads, schools, hospitals, etc.
in writing. - (CS) In my opinion, the report on the situation in Afghanistan and on proposals concerning stabilisation of the situation in that country is inconsistent and places too much emphasis on the importance of the military actions and on the significance of the role of NATO in the region.
The war waged in the past in Afghanistan by the former Soviet Union proved that this country cannot be stabilised, let alone governed, by military means.
Political, economic and social measures, affecting not only Afghanistan but also neighbouring countries, are the only effective way to achieve stabilisation.
The popular struggle must be united against the imperialist system as a whole.
I voted against the report on Afghanistan, as did the Group of the Left in its entirety, because the report insists on the military invasion and presence in that country, which is being burdened by the war, with over 1.5 million casualties over the last 30 years.
The issues in Afghanistan cannot be resolved through military means.
The people of the country need Europe's solidarity.
in writing. - (SV) The report notes that, despite certain progress, there is still a long way to go before security and stability are achieved in Afghanistan.
