The Committee of Inquiry found that the monitoring system in the transit sector was archaic.
The overall investigation also revealed that some tobacco companies were in league with the smugglers, and on the basis of that information the Commission, together with a number of Member States, brought an action against Philip Morris before a court in New York.
It gradually became clear that Philip Morris would find it particularly difficult to win the action, and in 2004 a deal was struck with the company.
It comprised provisions on cooperation between Philip Morris and the European Union in tracking and tracing cigarettes.
I also hope that this report has added a positive note to the important work being carried out by the Mr Kallas and the Commission and also our Parliament in the fight against fraud.
Full implementation of the upgraded system will take place by 1 July 2009.
I would like to turn now to the anti-fraud agreement with Philip Morris International, which comes under my portfolio.
I must thank the Parliament for its continued strong support.
In 2005 our fellow Member Herbert Bösch highlighted in his excellent report the scale of the problems and the need to fight fraud and errors.
The reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that this report invites us to think much more widely about the quality of our customs system, our financial circuits and, more generally, about the protection of the financial interests of the European Union.
The public prosecutor's office in Augsburg, Germany, has made 60 requests for legal assistance in this connection.
I should therefore like, above all, to invite the European Commission to pursue the matter more assiduously. (RO) The agreement between the European Commission and the Philip Morris company is a very good example of a Community financial instrument that simultaneously aims at several objectives.
The agreement was concluded in 2004, and, in the meantime, Romania and Bulgaria, both situated at the European Union border, have become Member States.
Since we examine the disastrous effects of smoking, in general, irrespective of the legitimate or illegal source of the cigarettes, we should also meditate on another subject: while the European Union promotes policies for combating smoking, on the other hand, it grants substantial subsidies to tobacco crops, which, in my opinion, is a contradiction in the European health policy. (HU) Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
The European Union and its institutions - including the Commission, the Court of Auditors, OLAF, the European Parliament and not least the Budget Control Committee - regard the agreement signed with Philip Morris in 2004 and its subsequent life and follow-up as a real success story, and rightly so.
For instance, OLAF has been extremely operational in several cases, in the Philip Morris operation and in the Diabolo fight against counterfeit operations, and this cannot happen without cooperation at European level and cannot happen without support from specific Commission services.
The Commission is doing whatever is possible to facilitate this cooperation.
Also - and perhaps I understood incorrectly from the interpretation - the Philip Morris agreement was between 10 Member States and the European Commission on the one side and Philip Morris on the other side, which is quite unique.
The vote will take place on Thursday 11 October 2007.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) As rapporteur on combating fraud in the EU, I welcome the important agreement with Philip Morris on combating cigarette smuggling at customs.
OLAF's recent operations - such as Operation Diabolo (135 million cigarettes seized, estimated loss of EUR 220 million) - have demonstrated that customs fraud can and must be combated: it is important to strengthen the operational capabilities of the European authorities.
The agreement with Philip Morris may serve as an example not only in the field of tobacco, but also in other fields of combating counterfeiting.
