It is with that in mind that I hope that the commitment of so many to this report will pay off and that the Commission will now, without any reservations, allow 'the same pay for the same work in the same place' to be established securely throughout the European Union.
In clarifying this point, the Commission deemed it appropriate to adopt the main principles on 4 April.
National bodies must provide posted workers and service providers with effective ways of obtaining information on the work conditions applying in the host country.
I cannot agree with the view that the Commission will try to include deleted Articles 24 and 25 of the original services directive by means of its communication.
The rulings of the court referred to in the Commission communication prohibit the national bodies from requiring that service providers posted in other Member States have an office or a representative in their country.
According to case law, a Member State that is hosting foreign service providers may, in order to comply with the principle of solidarity, stipulate that there must be documentation available at the workplace relating directly to the work concerned, and especially work reports or documents relating to health, safety and work protection in the workplace.
The fact that the host country requires the provision of various quantities of documents is also a problem.
The final important issue I should like to draw attention to, and which is often highlighted by entrepreneurs, is the very strict control of Polish enterprises ... (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, allow me first of all to thank Mrs Schroedter for the extensive and excellent work she has done in drafting this report, and especially for her efforts to secure the broadest possible consensus on a text that is important for a variety of reasons.
A directive that has been understood properly, applied properly and that has properly controlled effects should ensure that the right balance is struck between fair competition and guaranteed respect for workers' rights.
A directive that has been applied properly must clearly ensure that the right to free movement and the principles of equal treatment are respected and must pursue objectives relating to the harmonisation of working conditions and of social systems.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank our rapporteur for all the work she has done and for her willingness to listen.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) It is well known that many workers from EU Member States, such as Portugal, continue to suffer discrimination when they go to work in other countries that are also EU Member States, but where people earn higher salaries.
They tabled various amendments, for example, aimed at removing points in the report before us, with the attempts at removing Amendment 13 and parts of Amendments 26 and 29 from the report being of particular concern.
The key lies in recital L on page 5 of the report, which talks about preventing the circumvention of national standards.
Mrs Schroedter's report, however, takes the opposite approach.
The current practice places workers from the new Member States at a distinct disadvantage.
I should therefore like to call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against this report. (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her very constructive work.
As many others have said, this is an important directive not only for freedom of movement but also for the protection of workers.
We are in favour of competition on equal terms between companies, but we are also in favour of the equal treatment of workers.
The exchange of goods and services is meant to have a social dimension to it, and those who participate in it must be entitled to minimum standards that guarantee them a living, appropriate working conditions and the protection of their livelihood. (DE) Mr President, in February, this House, together with the Council and the Commission, arrived at a compromise on the Services Directive, Articles 24 and 25 of which were thereby deleted on the grounds that they provided for only superficial scrutiny of the delegating firms and their workers.
The 1996 Directive was mainly intended for SMEs, and aimed to simplify the principles allowing them to compete and carry out their economic activity outside their country of origin.
I should like to remind those who would criticise the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and myself over this issue that I represent a state that opened its borders to all ten new Member States, fully and freely.
This is not an easy question to resolve and it is certainly not an attempt to create protectionism in the 15 'old' Member States. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, the dynamic nature of the internal market has offered increased mobility for workers and has helped European businesses to develop their activities beyond national borders.
We voiced this concern during the debate on the 'Services' Directive, and - as you pointed out - Parliament rejected Articles 24 and 25 of this directive, which deal precisely with the easing of the conditions on the posting of workers.
That is why I endorse this report and urgently call on the Commission and the Member States to overcome the difficulties in applying the directive, which we do not want to have amended at this stage. (HU) Several people have pointed out that the Posting of Workers Directive and the Services Directive are closely interconnected.
One key question, raised twice in this debate, is that in its communication the Commission tried to reintroduce Articles 24 and 25, which had been removed from the services directive.
I wish to point out that this is a mistaken view, because Articles 24 and 25 are based on the country of origin principle, which is the principle that the country of origin is responsible for inspections.
The debate is closed.
