Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 5 June 2003.
Mr President, I have asked to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on a point of order in order to draw your attention to the situation of Vincent Reynaud, originally from Strasbourg in France, and Thierry Falise from Belgium.
These two journalists and their interpreter have been secretly detained since 5 June in Vientiane in Laos.
On behalf of my group, I call on you, Mr President, to take immediate action to ensure that the Laotian authorities free the journalists, Vincent Reynaud and Thierry Falise, and that justice and truth prevail as we are very much concerned and emotions are running high.
The issue of human rights in Cuba is a pressing one.
While demonstrating such sensitivity about the death penalty and human rights in Cuba, it will sign two judicial cooperation agreements with the USA in Washington on 25 June.
Colleagues, it is my sad duty today to mark the deaths of four German soldiers, part of the international security assistance force in Kabul, on 7 June 2003.
Iñigo Méndez de Vigo and Klaus Hänsch, let me congratulate you and the 30 colleagues from this House, along with President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, his vice-presidents and the other members of the Convention for a truly remarkable achievement.
You have produced a draft Constitutional Treaty which is clear, which is balanced, which is based on a single option and which could work.
The results of the Convention are also innovative.
The first reactions, as I have followed them in this House, have broadly endorsed the result of the Convention.
I am sure everybody can think of various improvements to different Articles, but to draw up a balanced project for tomorrow's Europe to which have contributed 28 national parliaments, 28 governments, the European Commission and the European Parliament and to get, at the end, a coherent result is something which should not be minimised.
Some further work is required, and the Convention has expressed a wish to complete its work on parts 3 and 4 of the Constitutional Treaty in the first two weeks of July.
In this way it will achieve coherence with the rest of the text which responds to the double challenge of enhanced democracy and greater efficiency.
I support the approach that the conference should be as short as possible and should conclude its work in good time for the 2004 European Parliamentary elections.
There is widespread recognition that in previous IGCs European Parliamentary participation played an important and constructive role.
It is in the logic of the progress, the participation and the shared ownership that has emerged from this Convention that the role of the Parliament should be enhanced in the dispositions that would be made for the next IGC.
Having the Treaty agreed well before the next European elections is essential.
I also hope the new Treaty will contribute to making the next elections, along with the historic enlargement - although our sixth direct elections - our first real European elections.
I conclude, as I began, by congratulating our colleagues who contributed so effectively to the deliberations of the Convention; by acknowledging, on behalf of the European Parliament, our debt of gratitude to all the conventionnels and to the leadership of President Giscard d'Estaing.
A sound basis is now available to the governments.
The Convention has given its lead.
That Community method, enshrined in the Resolution of 19 November 1997, is the Convention.
The European Parliament's option has therefore been a successful one, because I would like to say quite seriously that, in the 16 months of the Convention's work, we have done more than in ten years of Intergovernmental Conferences.
Firstly, Mr President, we have a Constitution.
This constitutionalisation is going to increase efficiency and is going to produce a Union of results.
But we have also democratised the Union, starting with the first article of the Constitution, which speaks of the Union's double legitimacy, something which this Parliament has always advocated as a Union of states and citizens.
When I entered this Parliament in 1992 it was a consultative assembly.
I would also like to say to all of those people who have always noted a degree of rivalry between the national Parliaments and the European Parliament that our main allies in this Convention have been the national Parliaments.
I also believe, Mr President, that we have done something enormously important, something we have fought for in this Parliament, which is to integrate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Constitution.
We called for this before Nice and we did not achieve it, but the Charter of Fundamental Rights is now going to become the document which will give Europeans their identity.
And not only have we reinforced the representative institutions, but also the participatory ones.
I believe this is a triumph for the European citizens, who are going to have a Union capable of producing better results, a more transparent Union and, above all, a more efficient Union.
And allow me to say that, as Chairman, I have been very honoured to carry out this task.
Very honoured because the 32 members of the delegation - we have not distinguished between members and substitutes - have done exceptional work in defending the positions of Parliament and in providing technical and political support at all times for myself, for Klaus Hänsch and for Andrew Duff.
I believe that this Parliament's political message is a very clear one.
You have said that this Constitution represents radical progress.
I believe this is the most important advance the European Union has made since the Treaties of Rome, and I am therefore convinced that the Intergovernmental Conference is not going to improve it.
I believe that we should defend this text, which has been presented without options, as the European Parliament wanted, to the end.
At the end of this process, moreover, Mr President, I believe we must put it to a referendum.
We have drafted a Constitution for over 25 sovereign states and peoples who, for centuries, were pitched head-to-head in plunder, war and devastation.
Today, these promises have been fulfilled.
The new Constitution contains a new pledge in Article 2 and Article 3, namely sustainable development, justice, security and solidarity for Europe's citizens.
We have created a division of competences which, for the first time, defines the competences between the Member States and the European Union more clearly than before, and I would remind the older Members of this House that Parliament has failed twice in the past to achieve this goal.
However, we realise that simply creating this position certainly does not achieve commonality on foreign, security and defence policy issues.
We had to reinvent ourselves in the Convention, not only in substantive terms: we also had to reinvent our working methods.
With this Constitution, we can put the European Union, the 50-year-old organisation of European states, on a new footing.
I would also like to say right away that our group can support the draft Constitution.
If we consider the challenges facing us, especially the enlargement to twenty-five Member States, Europe's role in matters of war and peace, and worldwide developments, I would have liked to see something a little more courageous.
Walter Hallstein was right, as always, when he said that European union is a creatio continua - an ongoing process of creation.
The progress which can be made at a specific moment in history is written down and enshrined in treaty form - and now in the form of a constitution - and is the basis for further development and progress within the European Union.
If we look at our own nation-states and see how often it takes years of dispute to amend a tax law or perhaps revise a provision of the constitution, and how lengthy and difficult a process achieving a decision or an agreement can be, I think it is a miracle that so many nations, represented by their governments and parliamentarians, have been able to reach agreement on a common constitution.
In all our countries, our constitutions were created as a result of new beginnings, crises, disasters and war, when there was social and political consensus in the country, but not in normal times.
The fact that this has nonetheless been achieved has a great deal to do with the fact that the majority of this Convention was composed of parliamentarians, who - unlike the diplomats at the Intergovernmental Conferences - think in terms of solutions, not competences.
At the elections, the citizens will vote on the head of the executive because linkage has been established between the elections to the European Parliament and the election of the executive.
We have found an equilibrium - despite the President of the European Council - which seems to me to be reasonably well-balanced.
In particular, we should ensure that we are more effective on the key foreign policy issue, but we should also remember that through closer cooperation, we have made much more progress than has been discussed in public so far, including the option of an obligation to provide support.
I think that for this reason, it is good work and this House should endorse it. (Applause) Mr President, almost 20 years after the European Parliament, elected by universal suffrage, produced a draft Constitution, the 'Spinelli draft', we are achieving a text for a Constitution for a European Union made up of 25 States and 480 million citizens.
I believe we must welcome this historic success of the Convention, which has produced a democratic draft whose contents largely correspond to the hopes we had placed in this enterprise.
I believe that this has added coherence and seriousness to our representation and has helped our political families from throughout the enlarged Union to be able to work and mature in this House - which is the home of democracy in Europe - and to be able to create a common doctrine which has been specifically reflected in the text.
I would like to say on behalf of my group that we must celebrate the fact that we have a single text without options, without red cards; a text which opens doors and does not close them, and also one which is of a manageable size.
I would like to mention certain points which the Socialist Group sees as absolute priorities: to strengthen the social Europe and to defend Europe in terms of its economic governance, making progress in the field of taxation with regard to the internal market and majority decision-making in the field of foreign, security and defence policy; and we believe that this must also contribute to finding a better balance within the interinstitutional triangle.
Our job must therefore now be to try to consolidate this Constitution as a basis for subsequent work, but we must work on the basis of what we have agreed, what has been achieved, which is an indication that we are able to act, and this is tremendously important at a time when the European Union was being portrayed as moribund and incapable of taking action.
And finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you on behalf of my group, when you go to the Thessaloniki Summit, to express the clear will of the whole House that the text which has been produced openly and democratically be respected, and also to say, on our behalf, that we want to be properly represented in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference; not just making use of previous experiences but with a representation which is in line with our participation and our dignity.
Mr President, I too thank all those who have represented this House on the Convention.
The draft Constitution agreed by the Convention last Friday is blessed with many proud parents.
While the birth was difficult and the baby is not as pretty as we hoped, the European Constitution born on Friday 13 June 2003 deserves a long and fruitful life.
We welcome the establishment of a single legal personality for the Union, the unification of the pillars and the extension of democratic control by the European Parliament.
Of course we would have liked to go further in some respects.
We want to see the legitimacy of the Commission strengthened by a real election of its President by the European Parliament.
And we would like greater recourse to majority voting, even in a sensitive area like foreign policy, so that the Union can act more decisively abroad.
The European Council will have to decide the composition and the duration of the IGC.
The parliamentary component of the Convention must be fairly represented at the talks - as you, Mr President, have said.
The most open and democratic institutional reform in our Union's history deserves to be brought to a fitting conclusion.
From my perspective, we can indeed describe it as a milestone in the history of European integration, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank both of them particularly for their work in the delegation and their work in the Convention's Praesidium.
The fact that we will have a citizens' initiative as a mechanism in future and that people can get directly involved in European politics is something I see as extremely important, especially in terms of developing a European public arena.
I would like to point out to everyone that an initiative has been launched for this very purpose with more than 100 supporters in the Convention and I myself am a signatory to it.
I hope that in Part III, it will be possible to make further progress with European integration, especially in the social field and services of general interest, where we can link in with the work on Part I.
That was followed by the war, and as you all know, weapons of mass destruction have still not been found.
Admittedly, the declaration does state, by way of restriction, that the UN Security Council will play what is described as a key role in measures threatened by the EU, but this does not allay my fears.
The declaration conflicts not only with international law but also with the Convention's draft Constitution!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the draft Constitution completed by the Convention really was the excellent document whose echoes resound through the speeches of my fellow Members, and if it responded to a need genuinely felt by the peoples of Europe, the champagne drunk in this room a week ago would have been drunk in our countries too.
Laeken also asked the European Union to grow closer to its citizens.
Thirteen out of 25 prime ministers, elected on a quite different basis, are at the centre of power.
Six or seven of the 13 will be people who can no longer be elected in their own countries and who can share the power among themselves after each election to the European Parliament.
One of them must have a majority in the European Parliament, but Parliament cannot elect a second.
If the Commission is elected, it can be overturned by a 2/3 majority, but Parliament still cannot elect a second one.
It is an historic paradox that you have to be a democracy in order to enter the EU, but that the EU is not itself a democracy.
What is worse, it is clear to see that before long another treaty will be required to resolve the conflicts of power or clarify the obscure procedures the new text wishes to establish, for example in relation to the common foreign policy.
The Convention takes the approach of enhanced supranationality, in other words false democracy, by widely applying qualified majority voting and codecision, without any safety net for the national democracies as such, by establishing a European Constitution superior to the national Constitutions, and by transferring to the Union competences in the area of fundamental rights through the incorporation of the Charter.
If we want to re-establish contact between Europe and its people, and I will say this once more, we must get rid of the feelings of remoteness and powerlessness the people feel in relation to Brussels.
There is only one way to achieve this: we must once more allow the national democracies to play an active role in European decision-making, for instance by giving them the right to control subsidiarity or by counterbalancing the Community mechanisms through a right of veto or non-participation that should be granted to each national parliament.
Mr President, the speeches that we have heard from our Convention representatives stand in stark contrast with what our own citizens are being told by our national leaders in relation to what is contained within the Convention document.
But we do not have to rely upon Mr Hain's statement of some weeks ago: in the last 24 hours the British Foreign Secretary has given his judgment upon this Convention document.
He has told people in the UK that there are no significant constitutional changes, that there is no significant change in the relationship between the EU and Member States, that the IGC will not be concluded until next year and that the UK will have a veto in relation to each and every decision.
On the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Foreign Secretary said in the last 24 hours that 'the net effect of our proposals will ensure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will not in any way extend the Union's competence or powers'.
It is not surprising in the context of this contrast that 88% of people in the United Kingdom in a massive recent poll indicated that they wanted to have a say in a referendum on these proposals.
I look forward to seeing his press release, although I am bound to say I do not think his remarks today about qualified majority voting on foreign policy, and national parliaments having no say in relation to ratification, will be any part of what appears in the UK. (Applause from the right) Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, but I feel I must also express some opinions and concerns as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
The committee of which I am Chairman, and Parliament in general, were strongly in favour of the Convention and advocated the drawing up of a European Constitution.
When we are called upon shortly to express our opinion on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference, as the current Treaty lays down, we will assess the draft adopted by the Convention as well.
As well as this deep satisfaction, we would like to express our appreciation of, and gratitude to, our representatives for their endeavours in the Convention and, in particular, in the Praesidium, to uphold the positions of the European Parliament.
The European Council should accept the proposals, without qualification, as the basis for an agreement at the IGC.
What the 15 were unable to agree at Nice will certainly be impossible for 25 to agree at the future IGC.
The leaders at Thessaloniki must listen to the voice of consensus as expressed through the Convention and through this Parliament, and build the future of Europe with courage.
Qualified majority decisions take away small countries' right of veto, which, however, the three big countries still have when acting in concert.
The Member States are to lose their permanent voting Commissioner, although the right of initiative with regard to all EU legislation will remain a Commission monopoly.
The fact that there is to be a president and that foreign policy will not be in the hands of the Commission will make the EU a more decentralised federation than the federalist European Parliament's delegation would have liked.
When the other pillars were toppled a new NATO pillar was erected.
Mr President, I too would like to join my colleagues in congratulating not only our own representatives at the Convention but also the Convention as a whole for the tremendous work which it has carried out.
However, this should be seen as one step in the process, not the end of the process, because we must move on to an Intergovernmental Conference , we must get the approval of the 25 governments and there will be changes within that process.
Secondly, some Members have referred to this as the 'constitution' of Europe.
A constitution by its very nature requires and needs the endorsement of the people.
Therefore I join with other colleagues in appealing to all Member States not only to comply with their own constitutional obligations, but actually to put this forward to a referendum of the people within the Member States to give it the kind of endorsement and approval that it requires.
Mr President, the Convention will have been an enriching experience for those who participated in it.
However, it will also have fully justified the judgment of a French philosopher who spoke of a Europe obsessed with its powers but indifferent to the results it achieves.
Parliament cannot actually complain about the progress made, but it is very far from what we call democracy, in other words the direct participation of the people in the decisions that affect them.
I will not talk about foreign policy, where we have very clearly been sold a lemon given that 18 out of 25 European countries have no desire for a European policy as such in this field.
Perhaps our Parliament should vote on a resolution that would, I believe, bring together a broad range of all of the viewpoints represented here in order to send a strong message to the Council and to the countries that this text should be put to a referendum of the people of Europe when the time comes.
Every little change to the system is deferred until 2007 or 2009, and I really do wonder what our citizens will think when they are called upon to ratify its content.
Among the issues that will be on the table for the next Convention are foreign policy - a clear example of a loose thread - as well as merging the jobs of the two executive presidents into one and continuing to develop the Council into a second chamber.
This constitutional treaty is really not the EU's last treaty change.
Exceptions to the normal decision-taking model in this Convention must be taken care of at the next Convention.
The trend is nonetheless in the right direction, so the compromise must remain in place.
The declaration of faith in an exceptionally competitive social (!) market economy also sets capitalism on a constitutional basis.
Militarisation is being dangerously deepened within the framework of the common defence policy which, of course, respects the obligations which derive from the North Atlantic Treaty.
Terrorism is being used as a pretext for creating preconditions for new military interventions against the peoples of the whole world (without forgetting the 'enemy within') and a special role is being reserved for Member States with high military capabilities.
The Convention did not include representatives of all political parties, only the larger ones.
Only the Intergovernmental Conference and the national parliaments, however, will be able to alter the Treaties.
It is true that the results of the Convention do not exactly coincide with its stated aim of paving the way for ever-deeper integration.
We welcome you as guests for our debates on the Middle East and EU security strategy.
As you know, in recent days there have been certain very important meetings, one in Sharm El Sheik, in Egypt, and another important one in Aqaba, where three speeches, the speech by the President of the United States, the speech by Prime Minister Sharon and the speech by Prime Minister Abu Mazen, had the air of very important declarations.
As you know, immediately after the meeting in Aqaba, acts of violence took place, terrorist actions and responses to them, creating the unstoppable spiral which we have unfortunately been witnessing for so long.
The aim of this meeting will be to consider how we can continue to promote the process which was opened up following the meetings in Sharm El Sheik and Aqaba, which led to the approval of the Roadmap by both sides.
The Roadmap must be applied.
If the international community is not able to do everything possible to see that the Roadmap is applied, we will be faced with the same failure that we faced when the Mitchell Plan was presented, or when the Tenet Plan was presented.
The fulfilment of the Roadmap must be our objective and the international community must make every possible effort to achieve that.
At the moment, as you know, two types of negotiation are underway, a negotiation which we could call 'intra-Palestinian' and another between Palestine and Israel.
There is a negotiation with the political leaders of Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the hope of reaching a ceasefire agreement soon, not a short ceasefire but rather one which really allows the more political aspects of the Roadmap to be implemented.
Secondly, there is a negotiation between the Palestinian Authorities at the moment, headed by the Interior Minister, Mohamed Dahlan, and the Israeli authorities, with a view to achieving an Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, or at least from part of it, and the leaders of the Palestinian Authority fully taking up their security responsibilities.
If this were to be agreed, it would have consequences for all of us; we would also have to make an effort to help the Palestinian Authority, from an economic point of view, so that it could rapidly restore and construct at least a part of its security infrastructure.
Finally, Mr President, I believe that the control of this process is absolutely fundamental to the application of the Roadmap.
If there is nobody on the ground able to give their opinion, to analyse and to observe how this process is developing, I believe it will be very difficult to move forward and to achieve a good result.
We are being offered an opportunity to bring this process to a successful conclusion, and you know that the objective would be defined by the existence of two states, two states which could live together in peace, and within a regional context, with which all the other countries of the region could establish diplomatic and other types of relationship.
On Monday, in Luxembourg, the General Affairs Council met in the morning with the Foreign Affairs Minister of the Palestinian Authority, a friend of many of us, Nabil Shaat, and in the evening we received the Egyptian Foreign Affairs Minister.
As the honourable Members will imagine, we are working in close cooperation with all the countries of the region in order to try to ensure that the opportunity offered by the Roadmap leads to a good result.
A few days ago I had the opportunity to travel to all the countries of the region for the preparation of the Luxembourg Council, and I can tell you that there is a great desire for the application of the Roadmap to begin; and at the same time there is a great fear that, if this opportunity is missed, we may have missed the final opportunity to find a peaceful and lasting solution which puts an end to the frustration and suffering of so many people over so long.
As I said, yesterday I was able to hold a good conversation with him, but I would also like to say that on Monday a statement was made in the External Relations Council, of which I hope all the honourable Members are aware, on relations between Iran and the European Union.
As I said yesterday with all respect and affection to the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the European Union believes it is absolutely essential that our Iranian friends sign the additional protocol.
They must sign the additional protocol and they should do so without expecting anything in exchange other than to continue constructive and positive relations with their friends in the European Union.
In this first speech I have been asked to give you some brief information about Operation Artemis, the operation currently being carried out by the European Union in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in the region of Ituri and more specifically in the city of Bunia.
I would like to say that this is the first military operation the European Union has carried out without the assistance of any other organisation.
I would like to point out that, immediately after responding to the Secretary-General that the European Union was prepared to carry out this task, the Security Council approved Resolution 1484 which defines the limits of this mission both in terms of space and in terms of time.
But I would like to insist that in a genuinely record time, in less than two weeks from the first contact with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the European Union has been able to implement a whole complex operational set-up for the first military peace-keeping operation carried out by the European Union autonomously in Africa.
I am glad to be able to say this, because many people in the Council, the Commission and the General Staff of the European Union have worked day and night producing high-quality documents which have allowed forces to be deployed in absolutely record time.
I believe we can all be proud, Parliament, the Council, the Commission, all the citizens of Europe, of the fact that halfway through 2003, the European Union is currently committed to three peace-keeping operations: one in Bosnia, as you know, continuing operations begun by the United Nations, another in Skopje taking over an operation begun by the Atlantic Alliance and one currently in Ituri, an operation begun by the European Union which I hope can be completed by the European Union.
The honourable Members are aware that a few days ago we began to deploy the force.
There are forces from many countries of the European Union, a significant proportion, but also from third countries, from Africa and from other areas of the world, such as Latin America, deployed as part of this operation led by the European Union.
Since before the operation began and every day since it began on the 12th, I have maintained contact with the President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with the Presidents of the neighbouring republics, in particular Rwanda and Uganda, the countries which have been most closely involved with the region of Ituri in the north of the Congo.
As a result of this European Union cooperation we will perhaps be able to see the establishment of a provisional government in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and we may glimpse signs of peace in these regions where, while there is unfortunately so much poverty, suffering and misery, there is also so much wealth underground.
I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of all of us, the country which is heading this operation, France, and all the members participating in it including - as I have said - countries from outside the continent, and I would like to address very directly our friends in Canada, which has not had the least hesitation in involving its forces in an operation led by the Europeans.
Canada has demonstrated once again its affection and respect for the European Union and, more importantly, the fact that it has such a similar view of the world's problems as the European Union.
We, the European Union - and much more so the peoples in the Middle East - cannot afford to lose the opportunity for peace which has been created by the Roadmap, small though it may be.
We will continue our concrete support to the reform process and will also assist the new Palestinian cabinet in achieving its ambitious goals.
In 2003, the Community will provide a EUR 132 million support package for Palestinian institutional reform and respond to the deterioration of the economic and humanitarian situation.
The Commission has done a lot of work with the Palestinian authority, especially with the Finance Minister, Salam Fayyad, which I am pleased to say has led to a successful reform process.
The reforms, together with external financial assistance, have allowed him to increase expenditure in Gaza and West Bank since the beginning of the year by meeting arrears and salary payments.
The Commission is certainly ready to support this important work through our experience and activities in reform and institution-building, but also in the areas of economic and humanitarian issues.
There is another area where we in the European Union will need to step up our efforts: the request of the Roadmap for all Arab states to cut off public and private funding for the groups engaged in violence and terror.
We encouraged Arab states to channel aid funds through the single account of the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Finance.
But we should use our partnership with Arab countries to address this extremely important point.
There are, however, issues that need to be dealt with urgently in the context of the Roadmap and together with the United States: for example, the rapidly expanding settlement activities and the so-called security wall which is biting into the West Bank.
Equally worrying is the worsening humanitarian situation which is compounded by restrictions on humanitarian access.
Over the last year and more, we have made it clear to our interlocutors in Iran that we want to develop a sophisticated, comprehensive relationship with them; which recognises that Iran is a great pre-Islamic civilisation; which recognises Iran's enormous geo-strategic importance in the region and, indeed, in the world; and which recognises that the outcome of the debate on democracy in Iran is important not just for the region but for all of us.
We have three tracks of discussions: one on human rights, one on political issues such as the use, manufacture and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and the third on trade and cooperation.
We have had two rounds of talks on the first two of those issues, three rounds of talks on the first two, and four rounds of talks on trade and cooperation.
The Council has always made it absolutely clear that progress on each of those tracks is interlinked, that we cannot make progress in one area without being able to demonstrate that we are making progress in others.
Iran is a sovereign nation and it makes its own decisions but I hope it will make decisions which will make it easier for it to get on with Europe, for it to get on with the rest of the world and for Europe to get on with Iran.
There has to be a recognition in Iran that when we talk about weapons of mass destruction we are deadly serious, not perhaps as deadly as the weapons, but certainly profoundly serious about what we want to see as the outcome.
In other words, everybody loses here: the Israelis lose their security and the Palestinians lose the possibility of economic and political development, in other words the possibility of well-being for its people.
I believe it appropriate to state here, when we are on the point of voting on an important resolution on transatlantic relations, that we should be pleased to note that the United States are prepared, together with us, to make an effort to move the Roadmap forward; and I believe that the comments of the President of that country, following the latest acts of violence and terrorism in the region, are a guarantee of this.
On the issue of terrorism I believe this Parliament has been clear and firm, and we must continue to be so.
I must not end, Mr President, without greeting and welcoming our colleagues from the Iranian Parliament and expressing my agreement with the words of the High Representative in relation to that country and, in particular, his request to the Iranian authorities.
Iran is indeed a great country with which this Parliament - as we all hope and wish - must strengthen its friendly relations.
Mr President, the publication of the Roadmap on 30 April offers a new opportunity to try to resolve a conflict which has led to seven wars in 50 years.
The Roadmap may exist on paper, but what we have to do is to create the whole path with an objective which, for the first time, the whole Quartet, and not just certain countries, recognise.
The international community believes that there must be a firm and definitive peace agreement based on the existence of two democratic and sovereign states, living together in peace within secure and recognised borders, and even accepting that, for the moment, a divorce may be better than living together.
I also believe we must stress elements which can help the Roadmap, the joint path, to move forward.
We must not only talk about the Quartet, moreover, but also about those governments which, like Egypt, are making a very significant effort to contribute to the process moving forward, and above all to achieve, together with the Palestinian militia organisations, a break in hostilities; and I believe that the meeting of the Quartet in Amman on the 22 is an important step that we must support.
We must also ask the Israeli Government, which has the most strength in political, moral and military terms, to fulfil its part of the Roadmap, dismantling the illegal settlements in the occupied territories and putting an end to the policy of selective assassinations.
I can only say that the Socialist Group supports intensifying these relations, opening up a new stage of significant relations in the economic and political fields with a young but at the same time very ancient country, with a dynamic and vibrant country, which also wants to open up its society, as is currently being demonstrated by what is happening with the students.
Finally, a very brief reference to Operation Artemis.
The spiral of violence will never stop if Israel continues to be provoked by the attacks.
The unlawful killing of leaders is, of course, an empty exercise if these are simply replaced.
An international military force must be set up as soon as possible, preferably after a file agreement, but if the latter does not materialise, we will have to make do without one.
In other words, the reality is that international law is not binding for some of these countries.
Mr Sharon has said that three and a half million Palestinians cannot be ruled with military occupation.
The wall represents annexing of territory: 30 water wells seized, 16 Palestinian villages separated from cultivatable land.
We must exert pressure with the instruments we have to bring about the creation of two peoples and two states.
Mr President, Mr Solana, Mr Patten, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, I was in Israel for the first time with this Parliament's official delegation to discuss Europe-Israel relations.
Our visit to, for example, the Knesset was very informative, and the hope was expressed of maintaining better relations in future.
The Union has a role to play here, for we have an historic responsibility in this region that is so close to the Union.
The Union must claim a more prominent role in the Quartet, and I hope that this will happen under the Italian Presidency.
That violence includes a Palestinian suicide bomb attack on a bus in Jerusalem and a number of Israeli attacks on members of Hamas carried out in densely populated civilian areas.
All right-minded people support the Roadmap for peace because this will ensure the creation of a future Palestinian State with territorial contiguity.
The Roadmap also calls for the immediate dismantling of settlement outposts erected since March 2001.
We must all ensure that we encourage Hamas to return to ceasefire talks with the Palestinian Prime Minister, Mahmood Abbas.
However, the brutal violence of the last fortnight, and indeed over the last 33 months of the intifada, has deepened animosities and intensified emotional hatreds.
Then, alongside that, there is this European policy - or at least there would be this European policy if Europe existed - that is actually the policy of France and consists of doing exactly the opposite, in other words supporting the moderates on both sides, both Israeli and Palestinian.
The Roadmap is essentially a method which the European Union applies all over the world.
I regret that in the past, this well-established European principle sometimes seemed to be forgotten or appeared suspect, for there was an impression that no matter how much terrorism there was, no matter how much intifada or violence occurred, we Europeans act as if nothing had happened and carry on paying and maintaining contacts with President Arafat.
Now that Iraq no longer has Saddam Hussein as a dictator and is hopefully on the way to more democratic structures, we must send a clear message to Syria and Iran.
The message is this: if you want to conduct relations with the European Union, you must say 'yes' to the Roadmap and participate in the process as well.
I am therefore grateful to Commissioner Patten and the High Representative for stating this so categorically here today in plenary.
For that very reason, influential countries like the United States, or many other countries, or indeed the European Union, are in a stronger position to shape that world because it is a smaller place.
This means that in practice we send our philosophy of peace and reconciliation to areas of conflict.
The first half of the century we just left was the worst in the history of the world: two World Wars, 50 million human beings slaughtered.
Therefore, the principles at the heart of the European Union, are principles that should be sent to every area of conflict - I know because the three principles of the European Union are the three principles that produced peace on my own streets in Northern Ireland: respect for difference, no victory and the creation of appropriate institutions.
Then, through those institutions, we can work together in our common interests and break down the barriers of the past.
The first message to the Middle East would of course be to get them to agree in advance that it is people that are divided there, not territory, because without territory even the Middle East is only a jungle, and when people are divided, they should agree that they can never solve their problems by any form of violence.
Mr President, it was 4 June in Aqaba.
Ariel Sharon and Mahmoud Abbas were talking about peace, making pledges and embarking on the road marked out by the Quartet, a difficult road, without doubt, but one without any alternative.
The Palestinian Prime Minister referred to Palestinian terrorism, not political activism but the terrorism and suffering of the Jewish people.
So here, in such a short space of time, we have to say that Europe must make every effort to support the actions of these two men and to prevent the extremists on both sides from continuing to set fire to peace, so as to ensure that Aqaba does not become another Taba.
The first of these conditions is the immediate withdrawal of the Israeli army from the occupied territories.
Indeed, the European Union cannot remain deaf to what is at stake in the Middle East today.
I wonder whether pressure has also been brought to bear on Israel to start leaving the settlements, for that could defuse the situation and could be a clear signal that could take the wind out of the sails of the terrorists.
The peace process is still fragile.
Finally, Mr High Representative, a word about Ituri.
What I believe we can do as the European Union - and it is important at this time, especially now when Abu Mazen and Ariel Sharon are continuing to talk, although both sides are acting and reacting - is to legitimise the role of Abu Mazen: in this difficult situation, the more legitimacy we give him, the more successful we will be in creating the conditions for relative peace.
Moreover, I would like to take the opportunity afforded by the presence of the Iranian delegation to call upon Iran, precisely because of its long history and its role in the Middle East, to recognise the State of Israel: let it do so, if necessary, through the European Union, but let it recognise the State of Israel.
This is important and essential, not least in terms of the recognition of human rights and of economic and, therefore, political development too within Iran.
Peace efforts in the Middle East must concentrate on neutralising enemies of peace, such as Hamas.
The Council decisions taken the day before yesterday in Luxembourg constitute a step, albeit a very late step, in the right direction.
The European Union would now like to act against the entire Hamas movement, and no longer confine itself to the so-called military wing of Hamas.
In its meeting in Luxembourg, the Council was right to underline the need for a constructive stance in the fight against terror by the States in the Middle East themselves.
Mr President, scarcely had the United States taken the important step forward of recognising, through President Bush, the undeniable need for Palestinians to have a viable State and for Americans to play an active role in the Israeli-Palestinian issue, using all of their might to ensure that the Roadmap is implemented, than the unstoppable chain of attacks and ripostes began again, compromising the re-launch of the negotiating process that was outlined in Aqaba.
However, should we not begin to ask ourselves whether the increase in the number of attacks aimed at dividing the Palestinians and the refusal to accept once and for all that they deserve an independent State worthy of its name are perhaps the two main factors that are bolstering Hamas today and at the same time weakening the Palestinian Authority as a whole?
The most effective methods are the political methods.
There is also one method that we should not ignore or refuse to consider, and that could play an important role in facilitating the separation of the two parties and the resumption of dialogue: the power of interposition.
Indeed, from a European point of view, this means doing more than remaining a spectator or a commentator at this stage; this is where we could make a useful contribution to the search for peace.
No-one should underestimate the significance of this initiative, at a time when despite the terrible violence on both sides, a rare opportunity for moving forward has now finally presented itself.
Whatever the origins of the Middle East conflict, there is increasing recognition amongst Arabs that Israel is here to stay, whilst Jews around the world can see that Israel's long-term security is best served via recognition of the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people to have their own State by 2005.
He has now taken the right step at the right time to show his personal commitment to a lasting peace.
Israel, for its part, now that it has accepted the Roadmap, must give Prime Minister Abbas the chance to show his commitment to the peace process.
Furthermore, Prime Minister Sharon declared on 27 May in the Knesset that the settlements would not be discussed in the context of the Roadmap, but bilaterally between Jerusalem and Washington.
I am deeply concerned about the combination of these two decisions taken by the Council on Monday which, on the one hand, raise major questions about the application of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in Iran on the basis of its nuclear programme and, on the other hand, announce a general strategy which also ends in the possibility of using violence in the event that the principles governing the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are violated.
The answer can be boiled down to one sentence: the respect for the rule of international humanitarian law.
While the European Union is important because it also has credibility among the Palestinians - too much, sometimes, for the Israelis - I do feel optimistic, after the meeting between Abu Mazen, Mr Sharon and President Bush, that the new peace initiative can be kept separate from the deadly cycle of violence and reprisals.
While the situation in Iraq is tragic and unsatisfactory, there is also a possibility, for the first time, that Syria and therefore perhaps Lebanon as well will join a peace process with Israel.
Prime Minister Sharon must not bow to pressure from radical settlers and movements, as this would ensure that Israel could only develop within its biblical borders.
Most of the Israeli population is willing to make some sacrifices in order to live in peace and security.
Mr President, in a history of the Arab-Israeli conflict, the leader writer of the Israeli newspaper Yedioth Aharonot writes that 'no public document before the negotiations has ever been applied'.
In accordance with this macabre logic, the Quartet's Roadmap has already been killed on two occasions.
The first time was by the proclamation of the 14 reservations, accepted by Washington, of Sharon's Government.
But the worst thing is that Sharon wishes to remove all references to Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338, which form the legal basis of any peaceful resolution in the Middle East.
The second torpedo launched against the implementation of the new peace plan is the shameless return of lex talionis: attacks followed straight away by poorly targeted assassinations.
Faced with this regrettable development, the only sensible proposal comes from the United Nations Secretary-General.
Given this impasse, a simple and clear solution is required, a solution that would instantly put an end to the terrorism: Israel must implement Resolutions 242 and 338, withdraw from the occupied territories and withdraw its troops back to within its internationally recognised borders.
The application of international law is a guarantee of immediate success for the Roadmap.
The UN, the United States and the European Union have the resources to do this, but they lack the political will and the courage.
It is a framework and is not designed to be a straitjacket.
We need a viable and secure state both for Israel and for Palestine.
The construction of the wall is appalling violence, profoundly affecting people's living conditions and even their lives.
The Palestinian Authority will be unable to resolve the security problem on its own.
The Commissioner takes the view that we need elections, and I think he is right, but elections can only take place usefully once Abu Mazen has had a chance to prove that his course is better and more successful for the Palestinians than the terrorism perpetrated by Hamas and other movements.
She spent two years in the military and now she is providing medical care in a mobile clinic in the Palestinian territories.
We all have the same aim - an aim I believe we have shared for a long time and not just as of today - which is to find a formula that will enable us to implement the United Nations Security Council resolutions, with the existence of two States that are able to live next to one another in peace and stability, in a region that is stable and in which the two States are recognised by all their neighbours.
Thank you very much, Mr Solana.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the statements by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy and by the Commission on the security strategy for the European Union, including implementation of the United Nations programme to combat the illegal trade in light weapons. . (ES) Mr President, I wish to inform you all, as succinctly and briefly as I can, about the work that is being undertaken on what could be called 'European security'.
I must emphasise that what is significant is that for the first time the European Union wishes to have a document of this type; there is a desire not only for Member States to have their own documents, but also for the European Union, collectively, to have a document on its security strategy.
A Europe of these dimensions, with 25 democratic countries, which will soon have a population twice as large as that of the United States of America and four times that of Japan (and I take as examples the large countries that, like ours, have a strong currency), a Europe which accounts for approximately one quarter of gross world product must not fail, I repeat, to be an international player.
This principle, in which I firmly believe - and in which I hope you also believe, ladies and gentlemen - must underpin our entire approach to managing the process of achieving security in Europe.
The document is about to be completed and will be presented to the Heads of Government next Thursday and Friday in Thessaloniki.
On the basis of this analysis, it moves on to a second chapter which addresses what must, in our opinion, be the main strategic objectives for Europe's security.
Logically, the first strategic objective must be to extend and stabilise the security zone around the European Union, in other words, around our continent, specifically to the east and the south.
I believe that the document that the Commission presented recently on the new Europe and Europe's borders is largely concerned with where and how the European Union should start developing its security environment.
The second important point about strategic security objectives must, in our opinion, be to strengthen the international order.
We could probably describe Europe's place in the international order in this way: we are effective multilateralists and it is on effective multilateralism that we must base our theory of the world order.
For this reason, we are working and wish to continue working to protect Europe's security through all organisations and specifically through the United Nations.
Of course, there are players that have more individual roles to play, such as the United States, the Russian Federation and other large countries or major international players.
What I would like to say, however, and we have attempted to make the document reflect this deeply-considered idea, is that in order to ensure an effective multilateral system and more specifically the credibility of the United Nations system, we must in theory be prepared to ensure that all the principles on which the United Nations is founded are observed and that this organisation has the credibility that it deserves.
When some of the principles underpinning the Charter and some Security Council resolutions are not observed, the European Union cannot remain passive and must act; and it must act with all the considerable means available to it.
Mr Hughes, who is not present at the moment, made a useful incidental observation on how the European Union can also play a major role in effective dialogue in the event of conflict.
We must have the courage, however, to say to ourselves that when rules, the principles that we have all decided to defend in the context of this effective multilateralism are flouted, the European Union must also be willing to face up to this breach of international agreements or contracts, be they political or of any other type.
Lastly, the third point that must be made is how to deal with the new threats, which are terrorism, the proliferation of weapons and failed states ...
Today we are facing perhaps the first threat situated far from our border and we consequently need to deploy our capacities beyond our borders.
I therefore believe that when we were given the mandate in Helsinki, at the end of 1999, to start considering how the European Union could undertake civilian and military action, this possibility was also being considered.
I believe, however, that it would be an extremely serious mistake to think that the only solution to this type is a military one.
I also believe it would be wrong to think that the focus of the war against these new threats should be strictly military.
In order to do what needs to be done, we must have the resources and these resources are going to have to come from the citizens of our continent, of our own European Union, who will also have to be generous enough to pay for the resources necessary to undertake the action that we are being asked every day to carry out.
In my first speech, I spoke about the operation in the Congo.
We are able to undertake such action at the moment because of the means we can pool together, but also because of the means available to some nations in particular that can take on this role; others cannot.
The Commission very much welcomes the decision to rectify that omission and looks forward to the debates that will take place on the strategy document which is going to come forward shortly.
On the defence and military side there has been impressive progress in creating European capacities that the Union is already beginning to put to use.
As the High Representative has said, we need to be explicit about our strategic purposes, and the circumstances in which the European Union might deploy force.
As I have said before and as he has said, we also have to challenge our colleagues in government and our electorates about the gap which exists between ambition and what people are prepared to pay, and what people are prepared to cooperate over.
The European Union needs a seamless approach, which is why the High Representative and I - with our respective services - have worked so closely together, and why I am pleased that the European Convention has proposed even closer integration in future.
The real point I want to make, however, is that defence and military issues are only one dimension - and for the European Union still a relatively small dimension - of any 'Security Strategy' which is worthy of the name.
The Union has provided the central economic and political organising principle for our continent over the last half century, helping to secure democracy and stability for countries emerging from dictatorship and oppression.
Perhaps the central element in any security strategy for Europe must be to ensure that the EU itself continues to prosper and to develop.
Beyond that, the EU is a major contributor to international security in a host of different contexts: through, for example, our contribution to global trade.
The EU has played a central role in the creation and development of the World Trade Organisation, and we are now engaged in the Doha Development Round.
Above all, however, the EU can contribute to international security through its work in - and support for - multinational frameworks and disciplines that are increasingly necessary and important for managing the affairs of an interdependent world.
That is the essence of our security strategy.
In a joint action covering small arms later in 1998 the EU pledged to promote a number of principles including commitments by all countries to supply small arms only to governments, and to import and hold arms exclusively for their legitimate security needs.
The EU has set aside funds for the provision of financial and technical assistance to small arms programmes and projects around the world.
As the High Representative said, this will be the beginning of a very important debate, and of course much of that debate will take place in these hallowed chambers.
This was our experience in the Balkans in the early 1990s, when the European negotiators brought about some thirty-four ceasefire agreements - I am not sure precisely how many - and the reason why none of them came to anything was that Milosevic knew perfectly well that we lacked the military capacity to ensure that these ceasefire agreements were kept to.
I believe that we have to answer these questions.
On this occasion, I am framing them as questions, but they ought to form part of a specific and consistent approach if we are to be able to put something on the table in the way that the Bush administration has done, where we can identify both similarities and differences and will very definitely be enabled to conduct on a stable basis the dialogue with the United States that is necessary if we are to start working together or perhaps achieve a rapprochement, and that will help enable the Americans to abandon unilateralism.
The wider Europe that this is intended, astutely enough, to organise on a multilateral rather than merely bilateral basis, which is meant to be the European Economic Area with something added; our relations with Russia and the developing world and also with the Mediterranean countries - all these things are vitally important, but, in this context, we must indeed give some thought to the future of our relations with the United States, and it is my belief that, in the long term, NATO will not, on its own, be a sustainable bond between us.
Mr President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, the development of a European security strategy is a major step forward.
It does not guarantee that the European Union will also speak with one voice, but it does make it more logical and easier to do so.
We also back the implementation of an EU action plan against the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
Over the past few months, much has been said about the European Union's deficient military capacity.
Mr Solana made a passionate plea for an open debate of this kind a moment ago.
At the same time, we are confident about another priority, namely conflict management and crisis management, being fully integrated in the new strategy.
A new and valuable discussion has commenced, and we want to take an active part in it.
That is in the interests of both the EU and the United States.
We therefore need closer institutional ties between NATO and the EU so that we might react more consistently to the new global challenges in terms of combating international terrorism, organised crime and the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
The objective is therefore the continued development of the EU's defence dimension - which is also supported by the United States - as the European pillar within NATO.
The EU must increasingly work in partnership with the Americans, and not in opposition to them.
The transatlantic alliance can only be maintained in the long term if a proper European defence identity is introduced.
We can be happy about the fact that the Council generally wishes to strengthen European defence and cooperation around research and development in this area, but the proposal should also fully support the re-establishment of the transatlantic partnership.
I think the main priority should be for the EU to be the mainstay of an international legal order and of international agreements and for it to be among those backing international weapons control.
I should like to hear what the Council's and the Commission's plans are in anticipation of the UN meeting in July on the control of light weapons, for this is one of those areas in which the EU could have a role to play.
We are of course one of the main producers of these weapons, and we also try to control them.
We need to follow this agreement up, with the possibility of monitoring weapons throughout their life cycle.
Then there are others who say that our security depends on our defence and intervention capacities and associate it more with military aspects.
Yet is it credible to say that we are going to war because there are weapons of mass destruction when in fact there are none and it is a lie?
The European Union and its security strategy would, I think, have been important enough, without being made to be that sort of initiative.
What is true is that the scenario in which we are now living is a new one, characterised by insecurity brought on by regional crisis situations making themselves manifest in international terrorist networks and acts of terrorism, to which they are also exposed.
The European presence and the definition of its tasks are quite different under such circumstances.
I therefore regard their involvement in crisis situations - whether in Afghanistan, from which I returned only yesterday, or in the Congo, as is now being planned - as something to be honoured, but too symbolic and too inconsistent.
The devising of strategies and the creation of joint roles such as that of a European Foreign Minister - which I essentially welcome - do nothing to make up for the lack of the political will to give life to a common European policy and security strategy.
The problem of a dualism between the USA and the European Union, and of their mutual alienation, can only adversely affect the quest for a common European security strategy.
In practice, this gives rise to the need for the European Union to define its own independent strategy so that, on the basis of this independence, it can redefine its relations with America and correct its mistakes.
Good accounts make good friends.
And personality on strategy issues is precisely what the new international role calls for.
It must be the result of an international analysis, an international definition of its personality and its principles.
Small arms and light weapons are easy to come by, in some places for USD 15; they are easy to operate, easy to conceal and transport and, above all, are ever so deadly.
According to an independent study in 2001, small arms claim the lives of more than 1 000 people, mainly innocent people, every day.
The UN register for conventional weapons should be opened to this category of weapons.
I share Commissioner Patten's view that the 1998 European code of conduct should serve as a model for a worldwide, binding agreement on arms exports and transfers.
In relation to the UN review on the programme of action coming up in July 2003, we also need to look at things that remain to be done.
Mr President, I wish to speak, like my fellow Members who have just spoken, about trafficking and the fight against the illegal trade in light weapons.
As in 2001, when the United Nations Conference on the illegal trade in light weapons was held and we welcomed the action plan, we now welcome the assessment meeting that will take place next month.
The illegal trade in small arms and light weapons to developing countries, which are often embroiled in conflicts, originates mainly in Member States of the European Union, in addition -as has also already been pointed out - to the United States and Russia.
The Conference and the action plan now under review have not managed to establish a binding international legal instrument that prohibits illegal trading.
The European Union must focus its efforts on producing a code of conduct that prevents weapons reaching these warring countries, regimes that systematically breach human rights and armed groups that, as has already been said, recruit child soldiers.
The next item is a statement by the Commission on the future of the textile agreement in WTO negotiations.
It is a key sector for the developing countries.
In today's Europe, 2 million people are employed in textiles and clothing, and in the enlarged Europe that will be 2.5 million and a turnover of EUR 200 000 million.
Knowing how sensitive textiles and clothing are in a large number of countries, the European Commission organised an international conference on 5 and 6 May last, which was attended by delegates from over 80 countries.
We discussed the challenges facing the sector in the years ahead, especially with the final abolition of quotas on 1 January 2005, which is also the proposed date for the conclusion of the current World Trade Organisation negotiations.
Firstly, the developing countries are very vulnerable, especially those that are the most dependent on textiles and clothing exports.
It is also the case of the countries which have preferential agreements with us, like the countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean, some of the ACP countries and other small exporters.
Secondly, market access conditions in textiles and clothing differ greatly from one part of the world to another.
While Europe imposes customs duties averaging 9%, for example, many countries have duties as high as 30% or even higher, as well as retaining major non-tariff barriers.
Fourthly, increasing competition is likely to intensify pressure on natural and human resources and presents serious problems in terms of sustainable development, but also of conditions of fair competition where fundamental social rights are involved, for example.
I am thinking of the least developed countries.
We cannot be satisfied with confining the opening of markets to the abolition of quotas in 2005.
All countries, except, to our mind, the least developed countries, must contribute to this, including of course those whose textiles and clothing exports are highly competitive.
It is not our intention to further reduce our already quite low customs duties without getting wider access to external markets in return.
This new protocol on rules of origin should be presented to the trade ministers at the Euromed conference in Palermo on 7 July next.
This system of diagonal cumulation of origin will allow economic operators in the Euromed area as a whole to expand their potential sources of supply by allowing producers in that area, which will be unified from this point of view, to use intermediate products from the whole of the area without any barriers.
Our aim is to be able to apply this cumulation effectively in all the countries of the area by the end of 2004.
We must continue to look at how public action can ensure that liberalisation will not be detrimental to working conditions or the environment and prevent non-compliance with social or environmental standards being used as a competitive advantage.
We might, for example, consider increasing tariff preference margins within the Generalised System of Preferences for countries which apply these international standards, or encouraging private programmes for promoting sustainable development, or, again, looking at ways of increasing consumer information on products so as to give the fair trade option to those consumers that want it.
As you can see, and I will end here, the European Commission is very much aware of what is at stake in the textiles and clothing sector in terms of sustainable development, the fight against poverty, industrial and social policy and regional balances within the Union.
In the European Commission we have begun a study to identify the categories of products most at risk, the effects of liberalisation on production, its effects on employment in the enlarged Union and its impact in the regions that are the most dependent on textiles production.
Both sides of industry are following these developments very closely with us in a sectoral social committee.
Finally, my colleague, Mr Erkki Liikanen, and myself are planning to present a communication on commercial and industrial policy in the textiles and clothing sector after 2005 to the Members of the Commission next autumn and then to Parliament and the Council in order to provide - as is our mission - all the parties concerned with a clear, predictable and coherent framework that will enable them, for their part, to plan their strategies, investments and activities.
In its recent Communication on industrial policy, the Commission acknowledges that the vitality and dynamism of the industry are crucial to Europe's ability to maintain and increase its prosperity and at the same time achieve its social ambitions.
From this statement we can infer the need for a European industrial policy which, in order to be effective, must not only cover the strictly industrial aspects, but must also be a horizontal policy that embraces, amongst others, the social and environmental aspects and above all, trade policy.
And if this is valid and necessary for industry in general, and to preserve jobs, it is even more so in the case of the European textile and clothing industry, which has a turnover of EUR 196 billion every year, involves more than 113 000 businesses, provides work for two million people - or 7.6% of total employment in the manufacturing industry - and is characterised by significant regional concentration.
This is furthermore a dynamic and competitive industry which, thanks to the efforts made in research and technological development, thanks to the design and quality of the products and as a result of its having specialised, has been able to consolidate and increase its influence and importance for the European and the world economy.
It is accordingly worth recalling that the industry in Europe is the world's largest exporter of textiles, ahead of China, and the third largest in clothing, after China and Hong Kong and consequently has enormous export potential, which needs to be developed.
Furthermore, however, this sector faces many challenges, in particular - and this is something to which you also referred - the challenge of the quota restriction as of 1 January 2005, which will mean a radical change in the world's commercial landscape.
Another challenge facing the industry is China's accession to the WTO, and by way of illustration, it is worth recalling those studies predicting that once quantity restrictions are eliminated, China could see a 150% increase in its global textile and clothing exports and could consequently gain 50% of the world market share.
It is therefore crucial for Europe that markets are genuinely and universally opened up, especially in those countries that are particularly dominant and competitive in the textile and clothing sector but which remain closed to European exports, either as a result of high customs duties, in addition to further duties and taxes, or by means of non-tariff barriers that make trade with those countries unviable.
Madam President, thank you Commissioner for being here with us today and for the statement you have made.
I should like to ask you whether, since there is such a significant imbalance between the amounts we charge and those charged by other countries, in the event that significant agreements are not concluded in this field, we can once again put forward the idea of increasing customs duties to whatever level we wish on textile products imported from these other countries that are not willing to lower their own.
We are frequently told by representatives of the textile sector that, with regard to some of these property rights, such as design, which is not as visible as others such as trademarks, although countries have signed TRIPs agreements within the World Trade Organisation, they tend not to comply with them.
Madam President, like many other Members I am very concerned about this lack of planning a such a late stage, when we have known for some time that tariffs were changing in 2005.
As has been mentioned, we are already seeing a shift in production from the European Union to other countries.
I was in Athens last week looking at the case of Schiesser-Palco, an underwear producer - they promised me a sample for the Commissioner but the post has not managed to deliver on that!
We are seeing the same sort of relocation through India, Sri Lanka, Latin America and China - where, we are told, the future of textile manufacturing lies.
I am not convinced that we have had an answer yet as to what is possible under current WTO rules, which means that it can be very difficult to resist imports on the current process and production rules, and difficult to differentiate on labour standards and so on.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by congratulating the Commissioner on his reassuring words of introduction to this delicate matter.
Portugal is one of the biggest textile and clothing producers in the Union.
Portuguese textile products are a feature of all the major world markets, especially in the European Union and the United States.
The proposals and strategy he set out for us here today seem to be moving in the right direction.
Madam President, Commissioner Lamy, your position deserves to be welcomed unreservedly, especially in that everything in the negotiations is to be based on the principle of reciprocity and in that you have also mentioned a point that strikes me as very important - the fact that additional accompanying measures are to be taken in order to make the textile industry more competitive with effect from 2005, and that this is already happening.
What we need when it comes to the removal of barriers to trade, whether these be in the form of tariffs or not, is fairness; that is what needs to be promoted in this regard, both here and in the accession countries, where, I believe the main development in the textile industry will be.
In the face of this worrying picture, there are a further two elements which, I think, add to our concerns.
Secondly, a systematic effort must be made for our quality products to penetrate third countries, by dealing with the various ways this effort is being circumvented by third countries.
Opening up trade and access creates challenges.
The Commissioner mentioned the essential sector of textiles for developing countries.
It is true that developing countries' economies could receive a huge boost for a more open trading regime, but this is not automatic and not without its problems.
We should, of course, endeavour to use trade agreements to spread core labour values and to carry out the delicate task of improving conditions for workers in developing countries who often see such moves as hidden protectionism.
Those three factors, incidentally, are also present within the European Union.
Mrs Ferrer, I share your vision for the future of the textiles and clothing sector in Europe.
Yes, we can make it in our unilateral commercial policy.
When we enter into association agreements or trade agreements with some third countries, observance of fundamental social norms is part of our bilateral agreements.
It was virtually the only failure at Doha: on this point we came up, at multilateral level, against a coalition of refusals formed by the United States on the one hand and the developing countries on the other.
This link is not therefore part of the programme that will take us to the end of 2004.
But we must make a distinction, in social matters, between, on the one hand, the basic social norms - child labour, equal pay for men and women, trade union rights, a ban on forced labour - that are part of the multilateral commitments given by most of the countries on this planet, and, on the other hand, wage norms.
Yes, globalisation has its effects.
Yes, it is a challenge to our competitiveness, our creativity and our skills.
That is why we need public policies to create a framework that will allow the sector to continue to move upmarket, to continue to create added value, to continue to increase in quality.
That is only possible if the rules of the game are established and followed.
Thank you, Commissioner Lamy, especially for your straightforward reactions to MEPs' points of view.
Mr Ribeiro e Castro, in principle, we will do what we can this evening to ensure that no difficult situation arises and I will raise this issue with Parliament's President.
This article was supplemented by the Treaty of Nice when the latter added a legal basis for adopting the necessary legislative measures through the codecision procedure and qualified majority voting.
The Regulation seeks to establish a solid and transparent legislative framework for the recognition and financing of European political parties.
Parties must be representative, must have a statute and aims, they must prove their intention to stand in European elections, they must have clear rules for their financial management and above all respect the democratic principles established in Articles 6(1) and 6(2) of the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Parliament must be able to verify whether all of these conditions are met before registering a party.
In order to receive financing, we propose that the parties have representatives elected at European, national and regional level in one third of the Union's States, because these are supposed to be European parties and this is the European arena and, therefore, the arena that needs to be boosted.
In line with Declaration No 11 annexed to the Treaty of Nice, the Commission proposal prohibits the cross-financing of national political parties.
Article 8 sets out strict control and auditing measures to strengthen the transparency and legitimacy of the system; we consider that parties should not depend completely on public financing and we therefore propose that they should raise at least 25% of their budget themselves.
To conclude, Mr President, I wish to congratulate the Greek Presidency on the results it has achieved, on the compromise reached between Council and Parliament, in which the Commission played a part and which should, we hope, enable this dossier to be concluded at first reading.
That is why it is vitally important that this House should, tomorrow, approve this act on the statute and financing of European political parties, for then, as soon as this summer, something that is, in particular, a corner-stone of greater transparency in European politics can become effective, and the parties will have enough time, between now and the elections in June 2004, to adjust themselves to the new arrangements that this law makes necessary.
By adopting this act tomorrow, Parliament will also be honouring a promise, made to the Court of Auditors, that it would, within the life of this Parliament, submit a new basis for the financing of European political work and put an end to the cross-subsidisation of party work via this House and the political groups within it.
It complies with the conditions imposed by the majority on the committee, and minor changes have been made to it.
The reduction of the threshold for a European political party's representation in the European Parliament from one third to one quarter of the Member States enables smaller political parties to participate in this system of financing.
Donations to political parties differ widely from one country to another and are another sensitive and highly controversial issue.
Donations to the European political parties are to be made as transparent as possible.
We have compromised on a ceiling of EUR 12 000 per annum for each donor; although some find it too high, and others too low, no political party can be bought for EUR 12 000.
There had at first been some doubts about this, and those who jeopardise this are also putting in question the reason and purpose for European political parties' existence.
I believe that this document makes proper provision for such matters, and it will be important even after the draft Constitution has been produced, as the European Parliament of the future is to elect the President of the Commission.
The parties will of course be very important in this regard.
I have always maintained that the European law on political parties must be to politics what the European Company is to business.
We will then have taken an important step for political work at EU level, and thus also for European democracy.
Thank you, all those who have helped in this! . (DE) Mr President, this Statute is important, and it must not be allowed to go under.
In the committee, we favoured putting the financing of European political parties under the Commission's budget rather than Parliament's.
If we take that as being fundamental, we may well get different answers to that question at European and at national level.
So, again, I thank all those involved and all those who will, tomorrow, help us to achieve this outcome.
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying immediately on behalf of my Group that we accept the compromise that has been so skilfully negotiated between the rapporteur, the Greek Presidency and the Commission on this text.
I would like to congratulate those involved on having worked so hard to make it possible for us to reach a first reading agreement so that this legislation can be adopted in good time before the next European elections.
It puts on a clear and transparent footing the method by which the Union will finance trans-national European political parties.
Frankly, we would have preferred a higher threshold in Article 3, as regards the representativity of European political parties, but we are happy to accept, in the spirit of compromise that is necessary in the European Union, that this somewhat lower threshold will apply.
We are particularly pleased that the issue of donations has been settled, and that a clear, transparent and limited system where any donation to a political party is limited in level and also has to be registered on a register is laid down in the text.
No doubt this can easily be corrected.
Finally, on Article 6, point (c), the fourth and last indent in the English version reads as if it almost contradicts the previous indent.
I think it is clear what the intention was in drafting it this way, but it has not been very well rendered in the English language version and it would be useful to correct it.
Mr President, I had no idea that I had that effect on microphones!
There are great lessons there for us in the Convention and in the IGC.
The Council has finally moved to a common position which the large majority of Liberals are able to accept fully.
The new draft, however, has corrected this and is allowing sufficient possibility for political parties to receive modest private donations.
The question of the threshold is settled quite reasonably in favour of small political movements with real and serious European objectives.
The constitutionalisation process in which the Union is presently involved requires the engagement of mature European political parties.
That is why I also think it a good thing that this overriding idea should be incorporated in the Convention's draft for the Constitution, where it is enshrined in law in Article 45(4) in the section on 'Democratic Life in the European Union'.
I see this as being very important in terms of this House's political credibility.
In particular, the provisions in Article 3 on the 3% threshold and on the parties being represented in at least one quarter of the Member States are really important, especially to the smaller political parties.
With this in mind, I wish to express my endorsement of this proposal for a regulation.
So the kind of movement in thought - and it is a European movement in thought - which the European Free Alliance represents is actively discriminated against by a criterion specified simply in terms of a proportion of the total number of Member States.
I know that the compromise has aimed to move in our direction and I appreciate that very much, but the fact of the matter is that there is still a serious difficulty from the point of view of this genuine European tide of opinion.
The European Free Alliance has been recognised for a long time as one of the original Europe-wide political families, and yet we will stand on the margins of being excluded and de-recognised under these proposals.
Mr President, as I said in my minority opinion attached to the Leinen report, the action of political parties at European level ought to be fed from the base, that is by the national political parties and the citizens, and not from the top by the European institutions.
That is the first condition for encouraging a living democracy instead of creating an artificial democracy from scratch.
It wants in fact to finance European political parties, whereas the treaty uses a much broader expression, 'political parties at European level', which includes action at European level by national political parties.
Finally, Mr President, I support Mr Ribeiro e Castro's request that this text be referred back to the committee pursuant to Rule 130a of the Rules of Procedure, since 75 amendments have been tabled, which is far more than the limit of 50.
Whether they are simple or compromise amendments, the text must be referred back to the committee if there are more than 50 amendments.
In our own time, parliamentary democracy is characterised by political parties campaigning in elections and by parliamentary deputies - nominated by these parties and directly elected by the citizens - joining together in political groups in the parliaments.
The Convention is strengthening the European Parliament by extending the codecision procedure, conferring upon Parliament full budgetary powers and giving it the right to elect the President of the Commission after the results of the elections to the European Parliament have been taken into account.
Although we have spent the past few days applauding that this is so, and rejoicing that we have at last reached our destination, we have had, to date, no legally binding statute for Members of the European Parliament, because the Council is blocking it.
Up to now, there has been no regulation on the legal status and financing of European political parties.
We are fulfilling our promise to the Court of Auditors by putting a stop to cross-subsidies between groups and parties, where such a thing still exists.
By doing this, we are creating greater transparency, openness and clarity in political work and in the way in which political parties' activities are funded.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is glad that a distinction has been drawn between the work of the Groups in this House and that of the political parties, as also between the functions of national parties and the work of European ones.
This does not amount to discrimination against small groups, for a party is European only if it operates not only at national level, but also in a specified number of Member States in which it enjoys democratic legitimacy and has partners.
Mr President, I warmly recommend voting in favour of the excellent Leinen report.
With this proposal for a vote in favour tomorrow, the European political parties will acquire a legal basis and will strengthen the democratic character of the European Union.
The European Parliament should be satisfied with the Council of Ministers' wording on both the questions at issue, both on the minimum number of Member States in which the party is active and on the sensitive issue of funding.
The democratic benefits of giving European political parties a legal status are many.
In the field of the European political parties, the principle of solidarity between peoples at social level will be implemented via the substantial political rally of the national parties of the Member States.
The role of the European citizen will no longer finish when he votes in elections to the European Parliament; it will extend to his mobilisation within the framework of the European political parties.
The European citizen will turn from a citizen into an active citizen.
Only with the institution of the European political parties can the process of unification in Europe finally become our affair, by which I mean the affair of the European citizens.
I am, however, opposed on principle to the use of taxpayers' money for political parties.
In this matter, it is not the people, or the electorate, that have created a need for publicly financed political parties.
The principle must be that, if we absolutely must give taxpayers' money to European parties, all parties should be given it, and that would not be the case under the proposal.
I am in favour of clear transparent rules, but I am not in favour of aid for European parties, and that is why I also reject this proposal.
The result of our debates is, then, that the taxpayer will have to finance and pay for all manner of banquets held by European political parties.
It is annoying, but there is no altering matters.
It is therefore our most important task to ensure that the aid is transparent.
It needs to be possible for any citizen to check all donations to the parties on the Internet and, in the same way, the European parties' accounts must be accessible to anyone curious about them.
For example, the accounts of the three big political parties are closed and opaque affairs.
Allow me therefore to call upon everyone to take a look at the parties' accounts in order to see whether they can in actual fact deduce anything from them.
I would also like to congratulate my friend Mr Jo Leinen on the quality of his work.
He was right to draw attention to the importance of European parties, which are a vital structural tool in our continental debate.
I think the representativeness threshold is right, with the reference to regional parliaments and setting a 3% threshold for European elections.
They also tell me it will be very, very little money, the amounts will be tiny.
If they will be so very small, why not none at all?
Mr President, accepting for a moment the rapporteur's central premise that political parties play a central role in contemporary democracy, the role played by them is on a national stage, even MEPs belong to national parties, and they represent their national electorates.
It therefore goes against not only the spirit but the very letter of your Constitution.
With this proposal, you are travelling down a very slippery slope.
Mr President, much as I respect Mr Leinen, I have rarely seen such a lousy draft as the one about European political parties.
EUR 8 million are being shared out among us and it is clearly being done with the utmost discretion.
We are all Members of the European Parliament, we have all been elected, but we are not worthy of this party funding.
In my country, I can join my national parties, you can join your national parties, the French Greens.
We can join the trans-national radical party, and some Members have done so, but we cannot join these so-called European political parties that are going to receive a pile of cash for what are really meetings of amalgamations of European political parties.
Incidentally, together with other colleagues from parties which - for reasons unknown - will not be getting any money, even though they are represented in Parliament, defend ideas here, are elected by millions of people, we intend bringing an action before the Court of Justice and we will see who wins!
The Council said niet, and it seems you have tabled an amendment with the result that we no longer know who is going to give the money to the European political parties you are so fond of.
Thank you very much, Mr Dell'Alba.
I know that most Members of this House believe that a working democracy at European Union level is feasible and desirable: that is a perfectly honourable position, but I would appeal to such Members to ask themselves whether these proposals are truly democratic.
In a pure democracy there should be as few restrictions as possible on how people choose their representatives.
Mr President, a statute for European political parties, with transparency of financing as its principal theme, is urgent and essential.
Mr President, it is a little odd, for it sometimes sounds as if it is a question of being either for or against European parties.
I think that is absolute nonsense, because we are at present in a situation in which we have no financial aid for European parties and yet we do in actual fact have European parties.
I think that the view being taken, namely the belief that a European democracy or a European public can be brought about through European parties, is quite wrong in a democratic perspective.
The political parties now have the task of making the principle of equality a political reality, and parties funded with European money also have the task of representing the public in an appropriate way.
It is more than evident that even the most acute analysts cannot distinguish the main differences between Democrats and Republicans, as is highlighted by issues such as the recent occupation of Iraq.
The proposal we are dealing with shows a clear will on the part of the European Union's lobbies to abandon the historical European arena and to embrace political confrontation in its stead, following the American model.
I am not aware of a single Member State in the European Union that does not have a regulation with regard to thresholds for the funding of political parties.
Indeed, there are thresholds for getting elected to Parliament, never mind getting money for political parties.
I hope that the summit this week takes its courage in its hands, approves this Statute and approves the outcome of the Convention.
We can really say that we are on the way to creating a European demos, a real public space for the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, the rapporteur is dreaming of a uniform electoral system with transnational lists and, for that, he requires European parties.
The raison d'être is not the common goals and activities of the associated members, but the need for a state administration at European level.
In fact, our objection would be much greater if, modelled on the German system, party structures and the drafting of lists of candidates were prescribed in detail, or if a distinction were drawn between parties which support a Europe that is governed in a centralist and uniform manner and those opposed to this, between centrally organised parties of individuals and loose associations of cooperating national parties or between large and small political movements.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Modern energy services for these poor countries are therefore a crucial prerequisite for its being possible to eradicate poverty in these countries and for the latter being able to achieve what are termed the Millennium Development Goals.
Most current forms of energy create environmental problems at local, regional and international levels that threaten both the present and future generations' health and prosperity.
Despite the primary significance of the energy supply for development and growth, energy issues have, in general, been missing from the international development agenda and from the work done to combat poverty.
Last year in Johannesburg, something of a breakthrough occurred, and both energy initiatives launched by the Commission are more than welcome.
Both the statement we are debating today and the EU's energy initiatives in Johannesburg underline the crucial importance of energy in the fight against poverty.
Moreover, the necessary transition to renewable energy and more efficient energy use can only happen with the help of specific financial support to help cover the higher up-front investments.
I hope that Parliament will support my report and that the Commission will bear in mind our amendments, above all those concerning the demand for significantly increased financial resources.
We started working on energy and development cooperation before energy appeared on the Johannesburg agenda.
Without water and energy, not only can there be no development, even survival is impossible.
I also wish to say that the energy chapter is indeed still one of the least-present elements in cooperation and assistance for poverty eradication and for the development of the poorest countries.
Life expectancy and development are closely linked to access to energy, to the point that many see it as a real basic human right.
The creation of a Sustainable Energy Fund and much more consistent participation by the European Union could be a first response.
In particular, as the report rightly says, the existence of a strong public sector in the energy sector is particularly important in the first phase of development.
The Commission's role is not to promote privatisation in the developing countries.
The exploitation and distribution of primary energy, which is essential for development, must be handled by public or private companies committed to public service and general interest goals.
Finally, seeing that next September's WTO Summit in Cancun is not far away, we must refuse to allow the energy sector to be included in the general agreement on trade in services, which would make energy a commodity like any other.
I am however delighted to learn that the Commissioner is prepared to invest public funds and Union funds to help these developing countries.
I mentioned just now the general agreement on trade in services, for example.
The debate on this subject is public, it exists.
Allow me merely to make a small point concerning the discussion of whether investments should be private or public.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11a.m.
However, I am not excluding the possibility that the progress of the new directive on mining activities through conciliation might make it easier to reach agreement on this point.
However, as rapporteur, I feel it is unnecessary to include the list of training measures in the notification provided for in Article 6 of the directive, which is why I would urge you to vote against Amendment No 3, as at first reading.
As you are aware, the Commission proposal under discussion seeks to broaden the scope of the Seveso II Directive in the light of the Baia Mare and Enschede accidents.
Whilst the Commission proposal did not originally contain measures related to the Toulouse accident, a number of amendments proposed by Parliament have been incorporated into the Commission's amended proposal and subsequently into the Council's common position.
Amendments Nos 9 to 11 on risk mapping and potassium nitrate were already accepted by the Commission during the first reading and consequently they figure in the Commission's amended proposal.
The Commission continues to support these amendments and can furthermore accept Amendment No 8 related to training for emergencies.
I am pleased to tell you that a proposal for a directive on the management of mining waste was adopted by the Commission on 2 June 2003.
The measures in the proposal complement those outlined in the Seveso II Directive and include the establishment of a major accident prevention policy and a safety management system.
The Seveso II Directive should not be transformed into either mining legislation or waste legislation.
Therefore the Commission cannot agree to deleting the words 'chemical and thermal' as proposed in Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
We also reject Amendment No 12 which proposes making a reference to Council Directive 91/689/EEC on hazardous waste, and Amendment No 13, which seems to suggest that there are gaps in the coverage of mining sites through the two proposals.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4 would lead to requiring operators of Seveso lower-tier sites to include information on training measures in the notification and to inform the competent authority in the event of a modification of an installation, establishment or storage area.
I acknowledge Parliament's strong wish to reinforce Article 12 of the Seveso II Directive.
However, the Commission and the Council have already accepted related amendments presented in the first reading.
Amendment No 6 does not constitute an added value; on the contrary, there is no need for separate guidelines setting out a methodology on minimum safety distances, as it should be possible to derive these distances from the technical database that will be created as a tool to help assess the compatibility between Seveso sites and sensitive sites.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 7.
On these questions, the European Union must show its unity and its willingness to improve the legislation in force in answer to the legitimate concerns of the European citizens.
It is also an opportunity for us to give some meaning to this European construction which is often accused of devoting more time to drawing up product standards than to the Europeans' well-being, let alone their health.
I am therefore glad that the Committee on the Environment has adopted the amendments concerning obligations to notify the competent authorities, because we need to be very demanding in this area without, Commissioner, being bureaucratic: there is no reason why we cannot simplify the documents.
The amendments concerning training for all staff, including staff of subcontractors, seem to me to be essential, because it has been evident from several accidents that a lack of training and of information was involved.
On the question of safety distances between establishments and sensitive areas, the terrible accident in Toulouse showed the weaknesses in the relevant legislation and we must include these things in our report, just as we must in future extend the mapping of sensitive areas.
One point presents a problem and seems to be meeting with stiff opposition from the Council and the Commission, as you have just said, Commissioner; it is the question of extending the scope to all mining and waste processing activities using dangerous substances.
The Council and the Commission want to restrict the scope of the Seveso II Directive to the chemical and thermal processing of waste only; they justify this position by the fact that in its proposal concerning mining waste the Commission refers, in Article 6 on the prevention of major accidents, to the provisions of the amended Seveso II Directive.
However, if we want to avoid a legal void concerning certain mining activities and certain methods of processing mining waste until this new legislative proposal is adopted, the European Parliament must vote in favour of Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 13 without prejudice to the scope of the future report and with no talk of redundancies.
That is not something in conflict with the objectives of the directive.
Nor is it a question of completely changing this proposal for a directive but, instead, of tackling the problems we have seen in connection with the serious accidents that have taken place in recent years.
I wish above all to put the case for Amendment No 13 concerning a new recital 3a, explaining why we believe it to be particularly important for Amendments Nos 1 and 2 to be incorporated.
The proposal put forward by the Commission concerning the Mining Waste Directive and published, if I remember rightly, on 2 June concentrates more upon the management of waste.
If it is now to be possible to limit the consequences of serious accidents, I believe it is necessary for these hazardous substances actually to be included.
They therefore belong in the Seveso Directive and not in the usual place for dealing with waste management.
Mr President, more than three years have now passed since the fireworks disaster in Enschede.
The Council and European Commission are apparently of the opinion that Parliament tabled too many amendments at first reading.
Mr President, like everyone else I welcome this report and I congratulate the rapporteur for his work.
Events in Toulouse and in Enschede have demonstrated the need for action to amend and reinforce the existing Directive, so as to avoid any possibility of accidents and to minimise damage should an accident occur.
A future directive on pipeline safety and a proposal with regard to tunnel safety will also be very welcome because they respond to promises made during the last reading in 1994 and also to events, some of them very tragic, that have occurred consequently in other parts of the Union.
We responded to Enschede and Toulouse with this Directive.
We are going to miss the chance to respond properly and completely unless we amend this common position to cover other events that have taken place in recent times within and outside the Union.
The events of Baia Mare in Romania and Doñana in Spain demonstrate the need to take action with regard to mining safety and mining waste safety.
In 1994 we argued very strongly the case to have some kind of discussions on distance.
If nobody feels responsible, if organisations each work in a vacuum, legislation remains a paper exercise.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The Commission sets out 14 objectives and 23 actions.
Section 10 of the Johannesburg action plan emphasises the importance of sustainable development.
I welcome the overall positive tone and the fact that the report broadly endorses the approach and objectives set out by the Commission in this communication.
But over the last year there have been a number of developments which actually cause me and many others to doubt the commitment of the Commission.
Take, for example, the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy: despite all the fine words and the good proposals put forward by the Commission, it is clear, when you actually look at what has come out, that this is really a shadow of what was proposed.
While there are some good possibilities in there, most of it basically requires an effort of political will on the part of Member States.
Take the recent decision by Sweden, seeking to bring in more conservation measures in relation to cod: they were prevented from doing that.
It is a regrettable decision and it is also unjustifiable.
Over the past number of years the European Union has been doing the right thing by trying to convince other countries to be reasonable in relation to the kind of quotas they set for themselves.
There are many predators.
On the basis of that inventory, the Commission has built a very goal-oriented strategy for protecting marine resources, with clear objectives and an action plan.
But while we can hope that the Commission will be firm and vigilant in the matter, we may be forgiven for having more fears about the Council, where there will have to be a real political will to implement this integrated strategy for the protection of marine resources.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Convention proposes that the conservation of the sea's biological resources must be the exclusive competence of the EU, while fishing should be an area in which the EU and the Member States have shared competence.
This issue has been sidelined in the major debate about the future.
Anyone familiar with issues relating to fisheries will find it very hard to understand that the Convention has proposed separating these areas.
For myself and many others, it is unclear how the Convention's proposal would work in practice.
If EU measures in favour of the marine environment are to produce results, there must be closer compliance with the rules, fewer exceptions and more effective international cooperation.
It also means, however, that the Member States must be prepared to take a stand on important proposals, such as the most recent one to impose penalties in connection with deliberate discharges of oil.
Unfortunately, we see, however, the way in which legal hair-splitting constitutes an obstacle to the directive in the Council.
Following the EU's enlargement, it will be possible for HELCOM to be a body attending to its task in accordance with the Water Framework Directive.
If it is to be reformed, HELCOM needs the support of the Commission, especially when, for the first time in history, the new boss, who takes office on 1 August, is a woman.
This organisation can implement the regional way of tackling things that both Parliament and the Commission wish to see.
The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission, HELCOM, has made more than 200 recommendations for improving the state of the Baltic.
There are environments in the European Union, such as many areas of the Baltic Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, where the natural environment would not necessarily recover properly from a large-scale oil disaster.
That is why we must have more talks with countries such as Russia to develop stricter common standards for merchant vessels.
The Commission should propose an amendment, within the framework of UNCLOS, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which would allow intervention with regard to merchant vessels from third countries sailing through or close to EU waters if they are thought to be a potentially serious threat.
The situation was best in Finland and Sweden, where the equipment they have would be sufficient in practice for clearing the oil coming from a broken fuel tank on a large passenger ship.
If there were a major disaster the equipment in these countries would be insufficient even if it were used in combination.
Around 40 million tonnes of oil a year already pass through the Gulf of Finland, for example, and it is supposed that this volume will have doubled in 10 year's time.
It encompasses, of course, many different aspects of the marine environment and this is what we must now continue to work on very practically.
The debate is closed.
