We are talking here not about short-term successes or apparently favourable quarterly results, but rather about the need for our companies to adjust in the long term to the changed conditions under which we have to compete in the world as a whole.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mr Verheugen has characterised the general framework of corporate social responsibility.
Secondly, 2007 has been declared the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
As regards Commission initiatives I believe that corporate social responsibility is becoming increasingly influential across all of our policies, and in particular in external EU policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate him on his report.
I think it is important to make some remarks about corporate social responsibilities.
I think it is important to underline this when we discuss how to define corporate social responsibilities.
Our point of view - because we have discussed this question in the ITRE committee as well as within our group - is that it should be a matter of voluntary responsibility.
But there are also grounds for saying that they must behave well in their own terms, because good and strong companies who stand up for fundamental values, whether in Europe or anywhere else in the world, are contributing to a better world, but also to a better economy and to better products and services.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (EL) Mr President, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, in its opinion on corporate social responsibility, calls on the rapporteur for a holistic understanding of this issue, because it believes that the role of companies is fundamental as regards respect for the values underpinning the European Union, irrespective of where they trade, within or outside the European Union, and irrespective of their size, of whether they are small or medium-sized enterprises, multinationals and so on.
The question here is not whether or not certain actions can be prescribed, but rather whether they can fulfil expectations in view of a better world.
We have no other framework or agreed system with which we could adequately measure companies' activities in connection with corporate social responsibility.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his eight years of persistent activity in aiming to achieve this objective.
I feel, though, that what is needed is a workable legal instrument that would force companies to fulfil their responsibilities not only in the social field but also in the area of protecting working conditions, health at work and the environment.
The Commission President, José Manuel Barroso, likes to boast about his plans to control excessive regulation to help enhance the competitiveness of European economies.
Last summer, I had the privilege of visiting the Gates Foundation in Seattle, which of course is run by Bill Gates of Microsoft.
I believe that, with the amendments that we are proposing to put in place here, we should be able to support this report. (PT) Mr President, the main function of business is wealth creation, but companies are, in certain circumstances, capable of being more than merely wealth-generating machines.
There must be transparency, there must be more than philanthropy in this notion of corporate social responsibility.
We want a commitment on the part of business leaders, we want them to be proactive, we want this proactive approach to be applied internationally, we want SMEs to commit themselves and, as the rapporteur said, above and beyond declarations, we want something concrete.
I agree with Mrs Oviir from the ALDE Group in that I do not like the idea of an ombudsman, but it is an idea.
I particularly invite the Commission to think of the three reports: the original report that went to committee; the report that was amended and voted against by 15 members of the committee; and the final report as it is likely to emerge tomorrow.
Secondly, it is clear that corporate social responsibility must be a factor that increases competitiveness, but behind the labels relating to corporate social responsibility there must be realities and not just mere propaganda.
I would like to stress once more that Mr Howitt's report contains numerous valuable suggestions that the Commission will be happy to take into account in the further development of its policies on CSR.
I therefore expressed regret at the non-attendance of these non-governmental organisations, which were few in number, but we want to continue to engage in dialogue with them, and I have specifically asked them to rejoin us in this work in future.
Written statement (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) Business, or entrepreneurship, is the deciding factor for the development of people and society.
