&#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Commission Statement – the Northern Dimension.
It is designed to ensure the general well-being of this vast region endowed with many natural resources and to do so by means of effective and long-lasting regional cooperation.
Northern Dimension policy has moved on considerably since its launch in 1999, when it was officially inaugurated by the Helsinki European Council.
The Feira European Council of June 2000 then incorporated the initial action plan for the Northern Dimension, extending over the period 2000-2003, into the European Union’s external and cross-border policies.
This second plan took account of the European Union’s enlargement, set for 1&#160;May&#160;2004.
Even before that, Northern Dimension policy had placed ever greater emphasis upon relations and cooperation with North-West Russia, an aspect that will certainly be reinforced in the years after 2006.
The second action plan relates to five areas deemed essential to the northern countries: the economic side of trade and infrastructure, the development of human resources – education, culture, research and health – the environment and nuclear safety, cross-border cooperation and, finally, justice and home affairs.
The action plan emphasises the notions of subsidiarity and of dynamic interplay between the various actors in the Northern Dimension.
These two ideas guarantee full participation by all the parties in implementing the action plan, the parties concerned being, in particular, the partner states, the regional organisations, the regional and local authorities, the educational establishments and research institutes and, finally, civil society, not forgetting the EU itself.
The Commission is a member of these two organisations and remains fully involved with them.
At present, the European Union’s financial instruments devoted to Northern Dimension policy are the TACIS programmes, the national and regional programmes, including what are known as the neighbourhood programmes, Interreg and, to a lesser degree, the other Community policies affecting the Northern Dimension indirectly.
The Commission has proposed that, as from 2007, the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, that is to say one of the four new instruments for funding external actions, constitute the main source of Community funding for Russia and, hence, for Northern Dimension policy.
The institutional framework put in place by the second action plan has operated as anticipated, with ministerial meetings organised every two years and, in between, meetings of senior officials.
The first meeting of senior officials took place in Brussels on 21&#160;October 2004 and brought the following together: all the states involved with the Northern Dimension, together with all the other Member States of the European Union; the four Northern region organisations, that is to say the Council of Baltic Sea States, the Barents Euro-Arctic Council, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Arctic Council; the international financial institutions operating in Northern Europe; and representatives of the European Union institutions.
The 2005 ministerial meeting, which will be held on 21&#160;November in Brussels on the initiative of the British Presidency, will be important as its purpose will be to approve the guidelines for preparing a political statement and a framework document for implementing the policy to be considered in the years following 2006, that is to say upon expiry of the second action plan.
According to the Commission, the main objective must be to make Northern Dimension policy a policy common to all the parties concerned, notably the Russian Federation.
Once all the parties have demonstrated this commitment, we could envisage new partnerships in the Northern region, inspired by the successful model provided by the environmental partnership in the Northern Dimension, for which the European Union is the main provider of funds and which illustrates the very fruitful cooperation established between the four international financial institutions concerned, Russia and the Commission.
From the Commission’s point of view, the new Northern Dimension must be considered as the form of regional expression to the north of the Common Spaces agreed at the summit on 10 May between the European Union and the Russian Federation – regional expression that would be enhanced by full participation on the part of Norway and Iceland.
It should also continue to include a number of additional objectives related to the specific characteristics of the North, in particular its fragile environment and the issue of native populations, as well as issues of health and social well-being.
The Commission is at present preparing the basic documents concerning the new Northern Dimension.
The political statement and strategic framework related to the new dimension should be permanent in character, replacing the current model of three-year action plans while necessarily remaining subject to regular review.
The consultations on the new strategy have begun, and I am delighted at the opportunity they offer me to exchange views with Parliament.
The information system concerning the Northern Dimension is also available on the Relex DG web site.
This major initiative of the Finnish Presidency in 1999 is far too worthwhile a project to be lost simply because of a lack of political clout.
The Northern Dimension must be made more viable, and I am grateful that a Member of the Commission should have the same objective.
We should be realistic: only a strategy with a clear financial framework and a budget line will succeed in establishing its status.
The Baltic Sea is unquestionably part of the Northern Dimension.
It is our sea: .
It is widely recognised in the European Union that there has to be visible action in the Mediterranean region to maintain people’s security and welfare and our continent’s steady and sustainable development.
The Northern Dimension is an umbrella arrangement designed to try to give attention not only to the Union’s northern regions but also to its northern neighbouring regions, in the form, for example, of practical cooperation with the northwestern part of Russia and the Arctic regions.
In short, the contribution of EUR 75 million by the partnership countries and the EU has meant we have been able to start or we have planned environmental projects worth EUR 2 billion.
In the future we will have to develop a Northern Dimension policy, get new bodies and agencies involved in it, and provide support for the work of earlier partners.
As the Commissioner said, the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Council of the Baltic Sea States, and the Barents Euro-Arctic Regional Council are all important players in the Northern Dimension.
Most important of all, however, is the Commission’s own commitment and that of the Member States.
However, it must be a shared policy in partnership with Russia, not a covert way of directing some EU policy towards Russia.
As has already been mentioned, we must also bring in our other partners, Norway and Iceland.
The Norwegian Government has recently produced a very full policy document for discussion on the High North.
This fragile area of our world gives us the opportunity to cooperate with many partners and even to have dialogue with the US on climate change.
As has already been said, since enlargement it has become almost entirely an internal sea of the EU.
The Baltic is one of the most vulnerable areas of sea in the world, and at present it is in very poor shape.
The number of oil consignments from ports in Russia in particular is increasing very rapidly.
In the Baltic Sea, however, the consequences would be vastly more disastrous and longer-term than in the Atlantic.
Eutrophication in the Baltic is visible in the summer, for example, in the form of blue-green algae.
Winds blow into its sails from every direction, not least from where our partners are in the Northern Dimension: Russia, Norway and Iceland.
It is possible to help this neighbour state of the EU solve its problems with funding, for example, under TACIS and the European Neighbourhood and Partnership programmes, under the umbrella of the Northern Dimension.
The Northern Dimension must also cover cooperation with oil-rich Norway and energy-rich Iceland.
Its action plan should extend into the northern region to include Greenland and Alaska, to say nothing of the Barents Sea.
The fact that the EU does not always take part in the meetings of the Arctic Council, the Barents Council or the Barents Euro-Arctic Council says something about its indifferent approach to external relations in the development of the Northern Dimension.
The Commission should take seriously the desire of the EU’s northern Member States to develop Europe’s northern regions alongside the Mediterranean region, and the Commissioner should listen to the debate through his headphones if he does not understand the language. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is unfortunately a constant attempt to get involved in just about every area.
The Baltic is an absolutely unique inland sea.
Only once Russia has managed to solve these problems will we be able to hope that the Northern Dimension will achieve its technical and economic objectives in relation to Russia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start by making a point to the people who prepare the European Parliament agendas and also to the English interpretation booth.
I would like to make three observations.
Firstly, I think that the Northern Dimension should have its own budget line.
The ideas that Commissioner Michel put forward are a step in the right direction.
However, I fully agree with, for example, Mrs Korhola and Mrs Hassi, who said that we should refocus it on the Baltic Sea, because that probably is the sickest sea we have in Europe today.
To all the people sitting in the Parliament for the first time today, just remember that the Baltic Sea has an average depth of 59 metres compared to the two to three kilometres of the Mediterranean.
The Northern Dimension should be included in all the EU’s policies and not remain a separate heading.
The EU’s northeastern border is at least as crucially important as its border in the southern Mediterranean.
The standard-of-living gap in the north is the widest in Europe.
HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis, drugs and alcoholism have lowered life expectancy in males to levels in the developing countries.
Secondly, the Commission should participate more dynamically in the work of the councils that operate in the northernmost region of the earth: the Council of the Baltic Sea States, the Barents Euro-Arctic Council, and the Arctic Council.
Now they have joined the Union the development of the Baltic Sea region is essentially based on mutual cooperation between the Member States and the Union’s internal policy.
The Commission needs to take this into account when shaping the guidelines for the Northern Dimension.
Now that our Northern Dimension partners have gone from just being neighbours to being members, a comprehensive strategy for developing the Baltic Sea region should be drawn up, within the framework of which the Member States and the Commission can collaborate on projects such as improving environmental conservation and the energy economy in the region as well as its internal communications.
Baltic Sea cooperation will establish the Northern Dimension in the Union’s internal policies, but cooperation with Russia will obviously still be conducted as part of the Northern Dimension of external relations.
Baltic Sea cooperation will finally contribute some real substance to those views of the Council which have emphasised the importance of the Northern Dimension generally and also in the internal development of the Union.
There should be some reorganisation in the Commission so that it is not only the External Relations Directorate-General that deals with questions relating to the Northern Dimension but other Directorate-Generals as well. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is indeed timely that we should be discussing the Northern dimension in this House.
It encompasses members not only from each political group but also representing the great majority of Member States.
To ensure the success of this work, it is absolutely vital that the British, German, Polish, French and Italian Governments and the whole of the EU administration lend their support to this great work.
The Baltic Sea region, which comprises all of eight Member States, now forms the very heart of the Northern Dimension.
The population of that region expects such obvious problems to be solved.
It is important for the Commission to succeed now in properly strengthening the Baltic side of the Northern Dimension.
My message to the Commissioner is this: incorporate the Baltic as an important part of the Northern Dimension.
Draw up a bold strategy for the region, and be more daring. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am encouraged by the Commissioner's fresh approach to this topic.
If its long-term cooperation with Russia is to be successful, the EU needs to start sending a clear and coherent signal to Moscow.
Purchasing power has not only advantages but also disadvantages, and so we have to consider in what areas we want to include this new dimension.
Not only in that respect, but also as regards the security of our energy supply, this area will, in future, have a special part to play.
Tasks such as developing broadband technology and ensuring access to information on the Internet by a wider cross-section of society will in future have an important part to play in the future, particularly in remote regions.
I shall also pass on all the suggestions and reflections expressed that do not necessarily relate to the statement, in particular those concerning the place and role of Russia and cooperation with that country.
The Russian economy shows encouraging growth, so it is likely that European Union budgets will not increase in this area.
I would just add that, in my view, the comparison with the Mediterranean is not entirely appropriate, given the different characteristics of the two regions, particularly with regard to economic indicators, the populations concerned and the number of countries involved etc.
Russia needs to be present at the ministerial meeting about the Northern Dimension, to be held on 21&#160;November&#160;2005, and then to participate fully in the entire range of the Northern Dimension’s activities.
Our objective consists of devising a joint European Union-Russia policy on the Northern Dimension, also involving Norway and Iceland.
This policy should be in keeping with the Common Spaces, with which it should be aligned in terms of the Northern region, and it should have a number of specific characteristics.
I think that the European Community should continue to support the Northern Dimension within the framework of the programmes at present being implemented, that is to say TACIS and the European Neighbourhood Policy, and of those to be implemented in the future within the framework of the draft European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
It is not beyond the bounds of possibility that these results could be reproduced in other areas, but that would require a similar level of commitment from all those providing funds.
Because it is important, I need to reply to a question I was asked several times, namely that concerning a Baltic strategy within the Northern Dimension.
I today make a plea to the European Commission to remember us in their planning, and to the Scottish government to play a more active part alongside our neighbours Iceland, Norway and others. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0173/2005) by Mr Thierry Cornillet, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on tourism and development [2004/2212(INI)]. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, tourism is the largest global economic activity, both in terms of turnover and number of jobs.
I shall return to this point.
Tourism is also a factor in democracy and political stability because tourists with no intention of being bound by any all-inclusivepackage see a country open up before them; because tourism is enriching and is educational in a way that, as everyone knows, undermines dictatorship; because tourism can establish ethical rules, particularly regarding child labour; and because the idea of fair tourism, which in fact constitutes a form of dissuasion, is beginning to make itself felt in our part of the world.
Finally, tourism is an essential factor in public health and education.
Finally, tourism is an educational factor because it makes people learn languages and in that way opens people’s minds.
Tourism can also be a factor causing disturbance and leading to abuse.
The fact that tourism is the world’s largest form of economic activity and that it can be an economic lever for developing countries cannot be a matter of indifference to the European Union.
That naturally applies to all our programmes, be they the EDF, MEDA, ASEAN or other programmes.
The percentage of these funds directly appropriated to tourist development projects must be increased.
I am glad that Mr&#160;Michel is in the Chamber, because what I have just said applies not only to the Enterprise DG but also to the Development DG, both of which should have tourism departments with a bit more clout.
The public sector will not take care of tourist development in its entirety.
Through the aid it supplies through ourselves and through the impetus it provides, in particular for the creation of major infrastructure, the public sector can, however, help tourism develop further.
Finally, tourism must give rise to ethical reflection within the European Union and, more generally, at global level.
Thought needs to be given to ways of putting a stop to sex tourism and, in particular, to the forms of legal action available to us in our own countries.
The Commission deals with the issue of tourism in the developing countries from the point of view of aid for the private sector and the sustainable management of natural resources.
Tourist promoters in the developing countries therefore have all the instruments for aid to the private sector available to them.
The investment facility managed by the European Investment Bank has thereby funded several hotel projects in the ACP countries, while the PROINVEST programme provides the sector with non-financial support, such as the strengthening of capacities and the promotion of investments.
The report acknowledges the transversal nature of the sector.
The European Union’s strategy consists of supporting the partners in their development efforts by helping them to enhance all the resources available to them, including tourism.
In the case of the small island countries of the Caribbean and the Pacific, tourism is one of the only resources available.
The European Union’s cooperation with its partners is aimed at promoting sustainable development based on local resources and which is respectful of the environment.
With regard to the increase in tourism projects advocated, I must point out that we must prevent the scattering of funding and, in order to achieve the maximum impact, the Commission, in agreement with the partner States, focuses its aid on a relatively limited number of sectors.
As for the support for countries falling victim to natural disasters, this is already a constant of Community aid, as is the obligation to respect and protect the environment and local cultures.
The Commission naturally agrees on the need vigorously to combat sex tourism, especially where the victims are children, in particular by providing the judicial systems of partner countries with all the assistance they need to eradicate this scourge.
I would like to thank the European Parliament for the attention it has given the Commission’s services and you may rest assured that I will take all the necessary steps to ensure a more effective monitoring of all activities relating to tourism.
Nevertheless, the Commission does not believe that a Directorate-General should be created solely responsible for tourism. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, no one doubts the importance of tourism as a central component in European development policy.
Tourism, as the rapporteur rightly states in his report, is not only a factor of economic growth; it also makes a substantial contribution to democracy and political equilibrium in developing countries.
Since the Treaty of Maastricht, tourism policy has been a central objective of the action of the European Union.
With the European Constitution, tourism is reintegrated into the sectors of supporting, coordinating or complementary action by the Union.
The legal basis therefore exists, as does the challenge to create a coordinated European policy of action in the tourism sector.
When looking at the developing world, we have to remember that tourism plays more of a role in some regions and countries than in others; the figures in the report show that.
For example, we cannot support paragraph 8, which asks all developing countries to draft tourism development plans, to produce annual reports on figures and contributions, because that is not appropriate in all cases and in many countries it would be a pretty low priority.
Visas are often a major source of income for developing countries, so that is not something that we can support.
There are also a couple of areas where the report could be more nuanced.
For example, recitals Q and T.
I am not sure that if we had a DG Tourism it would in any case do much for the developing world.
The Verts/ALE Group is glad to see this subject being discussed in this House at all and consideration being given to such aspects as the investment of profits from tourism in the developing country in question, the avoidance of mass tourism, the promotion of human rights and the maintenance of bio-diversity.
As a first attempt, this report is important, but there are many things that it considers only half-heartedly or too vaguely.
There is no mistaking the EU’s assumption, expressed yet again in this report, that tourism will help to resolve all the world’s remaining problems.
It is true that a well-organised tourist sector has a lot of potential for helping improve the situation of people in many developing countries.
The EU should not, however, conduct a common policy on tourism, as proposed in the report.
We advocate an EU with limited influence and shall accordingly vote against this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cornillet report undoubtedly contains many valid points, when it, for example, explores the seamy side of certain forms of tourism, such as the sexual exploitation of children in certain tourist destinations or property exploitation that affects the indigenous – and often less well-off – population.
There is, however, one important point missing from this report in my view, namely a clear position on tourism to countries where human rights are grossly violated and where it would be useful if the European Union were to consider introducing an embargo in order to exert more pressure on the countries concerned.
The Communist dictatorship of Cuba also springs to mind; this report makes cautious reference to it, but it is a place where opponents disappear behind bars for months and years without any form of trial, while the regime of an old and senile man guilty of crimes against humanity feeds on the currency of debauched western Europeans.
These too are sad side effects of tourism that deserve our attention. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, tourism is a major source of income for many developing countries and it has a significant impact on the transformation of their economies.
At the same time, however, we need to be aware of certain threats to which tourists are exposed and of threats related to the flow of tourists affecting the 25 Member States of the Union.
Issues concerning the way in which the tourist sector might support totalitarian regimes must feature prominently in any debate on tourism and development.
For the governments of several Member States of the European Union, the issue of maintaining diplomatic relations with the Cuban regime is a sensitive one, because it is so often linked to the tourist sector.
For some developing countries, tourism accounts for something like 50% of GDP, so we should be aware of that.
This is the kind of thing that could be monitored through our ACP relationship with 78 countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I echo the comments of my group colleague, Mr Kusstatscher, concerning the many positive aspects of this report, which does a decent job of highlighting the paradox that exists in the developing world when it comes to tourism.
I quite agree with the rapporteur that tourism can be a powerful force for good in countries in the developing world.
However, I remember well, when I was working in India for six months, how very often the impact of tourism on local communities was negative.
I look forward to seeing how the Commission will take it forward. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
As the Cornillet report has rightly shown, tourism has provided developing countries with an important opportunity for sustainable growth.
A strong, vigorous initiative is needed from the Community institutions as soon as possible, focusing particularly on funding and legislation to combat these two illicit practices, which are carried on above all by Europeans. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will keep my speech to two minutes.
The first is that we need cross-border cooperation between the EU and the developing countries, between the countries of Africa and the developing countries, and cooperation too within the countries themselves.
My third and last point is that we should invest in loans of cerebral capital, by which I mean people are sent from Europe to the developing countries to help promote economic growth, although in such a way that always takes account of the country’s own standpoint, the country’s special features, and the country’s culture.
I spoke for two minutes. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers have already pointed out that tourism is both the world’s foremost economic activity and a sector that is developing very dynamically, both in developed and naturally also in developing countries.
Moving on to the political significance of tourism, a number of Members have already drawn attention to the fact that tourism can in many instances promote respect for human rights, civil liberties and democracy, as well as increasing political stability.
As far as the economy is concerned, these risks relate to over-dependence on tourism, which is a problem that previous speakers have already mentioned.
Reference has also been made to environmental risks, for example the threat posed to sources of drinking and industrial water, which in many countries have been exhausted.
The Olympic Games coming to London in 2012 is such an opportunity for my region.
As is stated in paragraph 35 of the motion for a resolution, which makes reference to the WTO’s code of ethics, we have to protect our hosts, and that means that tourists must treat their hosts as such, with respect, rather than behaving in such a way as to wreck structures that have evolved over time.
Secondly, we have to protect nature in the places abroad that tourists visit, and not just by preventing the speculation in property to which paragraph 40 of the report refers.
It is by our own habits of life that we destroy the natural resources of these countries.
In any case, the report gets a warm welcome from me. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to agree on the importance of tourism as an economic factor and a factor for sustainable development.
Lastly, for the sake of propriety, in paragraph 30 one cannot ‘welcome’ the new legal basis concerning tourism established in the European Constitution, since the Constitution is now worthless, dead and buried by the outcome of the referenda and also, for example, by the Blair Government’s fear of holding any more polls in the near future.
I will say first of all that, in general terms, I agree with the fundamental elements of the report, except perhaps for certain points raised during the debates, which I can agree with.
In fact, even here in Europe, large numbers of visitors to certain places lead to wear and tear and measures have to be taken to deal with it.
Having said that, I believe that we must respect a fundamental principle, and that is that it falls first and foremost to the partner States to decide whether to treat tourism as a priority economic sector.
On this basis, what seems to me to be important at Commission level – and I shall offer a very firm commitment in this regard, Mrs&#160;Kinnock – is that, as well as contributing to the creation of tourist infrastructures by means of development projects, it could provide governments with useful know-how in terms of assessing the positive and negative effects of investments in the tourism sector and the use of the various instruments available in order to prevent the least desirable consequences.
I believe that there is a lot of study to be done in this regard but I agree with you, Mrs&#160;Kinnock, that, for our part, we have not given this issue sufficient consideration.
I shall soon have the opportunity to hold an exchange of views and to consult Parliament on this issue.
It is proposed to restore the budget line dedicated to the fight against sex tourism in order to guarantee the effective allocation of resources for that action.
The European Parliament and civil society will be fully consulted with regard to the implementation of this reform.
Such an important issue as combating sex tourism will certainly find its rightful place within the context of 'Human and social development', together with other issues such as the fight against AIDS, gender equality, training problems or social cohesion.
Be that as it may, you may rest assured that we shall apply every possible attention and determination to trying to put in place an arsenal of support instruments aimed at developing countries that want to invest in tourism. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It is time to end that poverty of fatalism; it is time to bring neglected diseases in from the cold and to bring real hope to those who live with and, too often, die from these diseases.
Less than 1% of the 1&#160;393 new drugs placed on the market between 1975 and 1999 were for infectious tropical diseases.
My call is for more research for neglected diseases and more support for care projects in developing countries.
He has identified some of the essential points on which the Commission will focus its action over the coming years with the assistance of Parliament and the Member States.
The Commission will also continue to support research and development with a view to preventing, treating and curing diseases, including the so-called neglected diseases.
The action programme to speed up the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in external actions, proposes supplementary actions for combating these three major diseases of poverty.
The programme proposes a series of coherent and concrete actions that are often jointly managed by the European Commission and the Member States, to be undertaken both in the partner countries and at world level, with a view to strengthening the fight against these diseases and to contribute to achieving the Millennium development objectives.
Our actions must contribute to increasing the credibility of the policy of prevention, of access for treatment and of investments in the development of new vaccines and other tools and interventions for prevention or treatment.
Within this context, Europe will enhance its political dialogue with its partners, with a view to helping them to confront the enormous challenges facing them by means of ambitious strategies and active participation by civil society and the private sector.
Europe will contribute to strengthening the capacities of these countries in key fields, in particular regulation in the field of the evaluation and licensing of pharmaceutical products, as well as research.
As you know, this problem is critical in the countries that are trying to enhance their actions within the framework of the fight against the three diseases.
I am also going to launch a new initiative aimed at guaranteeing the availability of new medicines.
It will also require new measures at European level, with a view to encouraging&#160;–&#160;as you have said very well&#160;–&#160;the private sector to invest in research and development of new medicines more specifically geared towards the curing of diseases suffered by certain countries that are clearly currently of little economic interest to the sector.
The first is that my Group and I support Mr Bowis' report, which is excellent.
These are issues that touch all of us and my Group therefore supports it.
My second observation is that this field needs more research.
What we basically need is more money and research, but my Group fully supports the report on the table. &#160;&#160; – The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; – I should like to propose an amendment, whereby the phrase ‘and creating a joint border civil protection corps’ in paragraph 9 of the Resolution be replaced with the phrase ‘and creating a European civil protection corps taking special account of the vulnerabilities of border zones’.
I should also like to point out that there is a small mistake in paragraph 17 of the Portuguese translation.
I therefore hope that the Commission will take full account of this resolution and that it will give back the prevention of forest fires and the creation of preventive systems the place they deserve within our budget.
The long time it took to release the aid for the Slovak Tatra mountains has shown us that remedying the consequences of natural disasters in the future will require full commitment on the part of Europe, and immediate financial aid from the solidarity fund when a&#160;Member State requests it. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of the resolution on natural disasters because we are able to support the overall thrust of the resolution.
We think, however, that some of the proposals in the resolution are too detailed and far-reaching.
We are dubious about agricultural aid being used for setting up fire-breaks, and we do not want to see an EU-funded system of agricultural insurance. &#160;&#160; We welcome international solidarity when countries are hit by natural disasters or other events with devastating consequences.
We do not, however, believe that the EU should use events of this kind to strengthen its influence over different policy areas.
The Commission should not carry out detailed analyses of the causes of forest fires.
The EU should not develop a common policy for preventing forest fires.
We also regret that our proposals were rejected, which were as follows: - a public farming insurance scheme, funded by the EU, should be set up in order to guarantee farmers a minimum income in situations of public calamity, such as droughts, fires and floods; - urges the Council to take into account, in its proposal for the forthcoming financial perspective for 2007-2013, the need to create mechanisms in support of the affected population with a view to the prevention of further large-scale disasters resulting from climate change, aimed at trying to minimise their consequences. &#160;&#160; .
As a matter of urgency, and not least in view of the large-scale fires in southern Europe and the major flooding in central Europe, the EU needs to develop its existing public-sector capacities.
This resolution, which also refers to disasters in other Member States deserving of our solidarity for similar reasons, will help the decision-making process and the implementation of the measures required.
It involves more than 2 million companies, the majority of which are SMEs.
I also hope that the Council will take a decision on reduced VAT rates without any further delay, thereby allowing Member States to apply reduced rates for restaurants, as already exist for other activities relating to tourism.
We have therefore voted against the report. &#160;&#160; The Moderates have voted against the report on tourism and accordingly emphasise that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, tourism is the Member States’ area of competence.
The June summit clearly showed that the Member States do not wish to pay for all sorts of new policy areas.
Nevertheless, I would raise certain reservations in relation to the fact that its approach to the development of tourism is overly focussed on the protection of the environment and the consumer.
The rapporteur is right to state that tourism creates growth, but in order for this to be fully the case, we must allow our national economic actors to be competitive and prevent them from being hindered by regulations and taxation as they exist in particular in France. &#160;&#160; The Moderates have voted against the own-initiative report on gender discrimination in health systems.
Like many other issues in connection with which there are different solutions and traditions in the different Member States, issues of gender equality and of health care and medical treatment should be dealt with at national level.
The above-mentioned report addresses many important aspects of women’s health and access to health care.
We unreservedly endorse UN Resolution A/59/516/Add 1 (‘Declaration on Human Cloning’), which states that practices contrary to human dignity, such as reproductive cloning, must not be permitted.
However, there a number of suggestions in this report with which we take issue and which have led to our decision on the final vote.
Using&#160;structural funds for preventative medical purposes and&#160;demanding specific conditions on employment of medical personnel are issues that are rightly the preserve of Member States. &#160;&#160; The own-initiative report on gender discrimination in health systems addresses many very important issues affecting women’s health, especially the fact that it is male physiognomy that is the point of departure in modern medicine, in spite of the fact that there clearly are significant biological differences between the sexes.
Despite the report’s good intentions in terms of promoting women’s health within the EU, I am voting against the report.
It is not for the European Parliament to decide whether women should be entitled to Caesarean sections or whether nursing staff should have shorter working periods and higher salaries.
At the same time, the report is characterised in other areas by its unduly broad-brush approach to wordings.
For example, the proportion of women working in healthcare may well generally be very high – it is over 78% in Austria – but it is small to the point of insignificance in senior management and other professions that enjoy high status and consequent high earnings.
This runs counter to what has been called the ‘feminisation of ageing’, as men form the majority of the population up to about the age of 45 and women thereafter.
The establishment by some Member States of universal screening programmes for the early detection of breast cancer in women between the ages of 50 and 69 was another advance, and there is no doubt about the importance of doing this as the report suggests and urging the others to take the same course of action.
We should, however, be concerned about the fact that it is between the ages of 35 and 55 that breast cancer most frequently proves fatal, and so we must do more to promote awareness of the dangers among this age group and adapt the screening programmes accordingly. &#160;&#160; .
With EU bodies being placed in decentralised locations, European Schools would now have to be founded in all the Member States.
We believe that a more flexible solution needs to be found when it comes to the education of EU officials’ children.
As a rule, there is the opportunity to choose between a local and an international school in those places where the EU institutions and bodies are situated.
The system of European Schools appears to have had its day.
This system of European schools therefore promotes the concept of European citizenship, which is, for Europe, what the concept of national preference should be for France and the other free nations of Europe.
But the development of these schools is intended not to build the Europe of nations to which we aspire, but to promote European integration; a policy which has just been condemned by the French people on 29 May 2005.
These schools are not only discriminatory against non-European civil servants, but against all of the children of Europe.
Children of EU officials deserve a quality education in their mother tongue and the existence of the schools helps the institutions in the recruitment and retention of suitable qualified personnel.
The concept of multilingual and multinational education implemented in these schools could serve as a model for Member States’ educational systems.
The subject of major and neglected diseases in developing countries has a considerable human rights dimension to it.
It is for that reason that I think it is a good thing that the Bowis Report explicitly puts these in the context of other political issues, such as, for example, the cancellation of the poorest countries’ debts.
If these countries carry on spending 40% of their gross domestic product on servicing debts, then there will be no changes in the situation or in the health systems of the countries themselves, no matter how many resolutions we adopt in this House.
I am very glad to see that Mr Bowis devotes a large part of his report to the problem of HIV/AIDS, and, as usual, takes a very progressive line on them.
I am grateful to Mr Bowis for enabling us in the European Parliament to join with the Commission in showing that the European Union is going down another road.
I think that he is right to call for the extension of the Commission’s campaigns against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria to include other neglected diseases.
As rapporteur for the regulation that is intended to ensure the implementation of the WHO decision on intellectual property rights (TRIPs) and access to medicines, I hope that the Council and Parliament will reach agreement very quickly on a text that will make it possible for this important decision to be applied immediately in the 25 Member States.
Moreover, while the Commission and Member States must actively support the implementation of the Doha Declaration and oppose any measure taken by the WHO member states that could undermine these commitments, African leaders should also accept their responsibility in the fight against the major and neglected diseases.
These are forgotten diseases here in the West, but they make their presence all too sharply felt in the South, with millions of victims every year.
Public funds need to be invested in this area, for the children of the developing world have no way of financing their medical needs themselves.
Fourth, the problem of neglected major diseases cannot only be associated with poor developing countries.
My fifth point is that, although we have discussed the threat of bioterrorism in our committees and at our part-sessions, I wonder whether we are prepared for the inevitable spread of some of the diseases mentioned in this report.
We should not narrow down the issues presented in this report to the accessibility of drugs and cures for diseases, but should also take into account the situation of those less fortunate than ourselves.
This illustrates the importance of the dynamic approach for which the Bowis report presses.
Although some diseases are not given enough attention in the developing countries themselves, it would be useful if there were initiatives in Europe that could support the control of them.
I would like to thank Mr Bowis once again for his stimulating report. &#160;&#160; – I&#160;would like to thank Mr Bowis for his important report, to which I&#160;also proposed several changes and amendments, most of them accepted by the committee.
Within the framework of this aid it is also important to provide guarantees, including financial incentives for pharmaceutical companies that stopped manufacturing certain drugs for tackling diseases of poor people, since there was no one to pay for them.
There is no specific treatment or vaccine available yet for the ravages of Ebola, which has hit the headlines in recent years in these parts and which has killed 1&#160;200 since the virus was first discovered.
The list of neglected diseases continues.
We could also add, as our rapporteur does, the 121&#160;million people living with depression.
Mr Bowis led us in relation to the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and he leads us here in this report.
Thank you, John, you have done an excellent job. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too should like to take my turn to thank and congratulate my honourable friend John Bowis for the highly comprehensive report which he has presented to us.
That is why I call on Commissioner Michel to activate all the necessary mechanisms and to take all the precautions needed to protect public health in Europe.
Every day we see a dramatic increase in diseases in developing countries, especially on the African continent.
This situation is an insult to mankind and imposes on the international community, on the UN and on the European Union, the need for global action which will go beyond bombastic pronouncements and will immediately create and implement an integrated strategy.
The increase in diseases is the result of the dramatic economic and social situation in which people live in developing countries.
Even European countries are delaying ratification and I call on the European Commission to exert all the necessary pressure in this direction.
The European Commission must also, within the framework of humanitarian aid, demonstrate particular interest in the granting of bursaries to developing countries for the medical and nursing professions.
Thank you very much, and my warmest thanks and congratulations to Commissioner Michel, who is doing a very important job. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much welcome this report.
For malaria and TB, which are already increasing in developed countries, there are several partnership research projects under way which include a pledge to make the eventual drugs affordable for developing countries.
But we have to recognise that, especially for lesser-known diseases, public funding will be essential and I believe that the EU should include this in its programmes.
On the eve of the United Nations Summit in New York, where the Millennium Goals will be at the centre of debate, this report forms part of a highly topical subject area.
In addition to showing the necessary awareness of the situation, I would like the European Parliament to deliver a strong and clear message to the Member States to revive the goals.
Either because they are expensive or because fundamental research and the development of research are inadequate, indeed non-existent, for certain major and neglected diseases.
Furthermore, when these drugs do exist and are affordable, the populations in some cases do not have access to them, as they are not adapted to the particular sanitation conditions in these countries.
The problem is more serious and of a structural nature; while the fundamental research is mainly carried out by the public sector, the development of these drugs is almost entirely in the hands of the private sector.
There can be no progress in today’s world as regards the major challenge of health care without a shared commitment from the public authorities and the private sector.
The pharmaceutical industry must emerge from an exclusively profit-making mind-set and revise its commitments and its priorities, in particular in the research and development sector but also in the marketing sector.
I think this would be a good use of resources and ask the Commissioner to consult with his fellow-Commissioner Mr Verheugen, for an initiative of this sort surely needs to be put centre stage. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, as Mr Rübig said, people want to live longer and healthily.
The people in the developing countries, who are the subject of this debate, want to be allowed to live, and to live in a manner worthy of human beings.
As one might put it: ‘poor, sick, unemployed, hopeless’ – in these countries the one state often leads to the other.
I am therefore more or less in agreement in saying that the public authorities and the Member States must obviously become more involved in these policies.
I also announced a number of measures to encourage health professionals living in Europe or elsewhere, and who are part of the diaspora, to return to their countries.
I believe that it is perhaps difficult to envisage 35% for the moment, but we could certainly plan a gradual increase over several years of the resources invested in these two sectors.
Like you, I am very alert to this area, and I wish to thank all of the speakers and the rapporteur for having made available to us this excellent tool, which is a source of inspiration and which I will be sure to use. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The health systems in developing countries are permanently in trouble: repaying and servicing the debt take up roughly 40% of GDP, while the resources allocated to education and health remain pitifully low.
It is an absurd and, in many respects, intolerable fact that, because there are no profitable markets, there is practically no research being conducted into those diseases that almost exclusively affect poor people in developing countries.
Such a situation needs to be put right quickly by means of a serious, tangible and prompt international commitment. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on famine in Niger (1). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we face a harsh reality: poor countries, especially the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, are hungry and rich countries are making promises.
The anarchic liberalisation of the international trade in agricultural products is widening the gap between developed and developing countries.
From this point of view, although humanitarian aid needs to be increased, it cannot answer Africa's serious problems.
The crisis in Niger has confirmed the serious deficit in the UN and the European Union of early warning and prevention mechanisms.
The donors realised that this crisis was a real famine, affecting a third of the population of Niger, or 3.6&#160;million people, which is a huge number.
What we can still call for in our resolution is for aid reserved for these populations to be equal to demand and, of course, to reach the most vulnerable people without exception.
This famine also reminds us that we must conduct a real development aid policy.
All these questions will constantly be asked, but I believe that, one of these days, they really will have to be resolved at European Union level. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Although this item has the heading ‘Famine in Nigeria’ in the Czech version of the agenda, I intend to discuss the situation in Niger, as stated in other versions of the agenda, including the French, German and English versions, and in the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
Many people travel with their livestock and all their belongings, particularly in the Sahel region, to which Niger belongs, and this is why&#160;crises spread so rapidly between the various countries in this region.
The widespread practice of nomadic pastoralism, which is particularly common in the northern part of the country, leads to desertification and an escalation of the crisis over the years.
What is more, the fact that nomads travel across borders could result in the crisis spreading to other countries, in particular Mali and Burkina Faso.
Two decisions must therefore be taken without delay.
It is likely that the most difficult task will be to restrict the practice of pastoralism in areas that are most at risk.
Other countries in the region must also be involved in this programme, since we will otherwise be faced with an ever-increasing number of related problems as the desert spreads south.
Food supplies only provide a short-term solution to the problem, and a broader solution needs to be found in the long term.
Oxfam has reduced the number of weak animals by buying them at a fair price and slaughtering them.
We often talk about the importance of the role of women, but there can be no starker an example than this of the damage that occurs when women are powerless.
Last year's drought coupled with the invasion of locusts, followed by drought this year, have combined with an increase in food prices, which have tripled in rural areas and doubled in cities, partly as a result of demand from neighbouring countries such as Nigeria.
The concern is that the food distribution is not reaching those in the greatest need, especially children under five, and the food being distributed is not appropriate for the young children and infants who are the main victims of this current epidemic.
The wider Sahel and northern areas of Mali are already suffering and in Burkina Faso farmers have already lost up to 90% of their harvest and are having to sell their cattle to raise money for basic foods.
The situation in Niger almost defies description – a country of 12 million people afflicted on a regular, ongoing basis by all manner of natural disasters, compounded by domestic error and international indifference until it is too late, and by incoherence on an ongoing basis.
It was hoped that the G8 Summit, which we in Scotland hosted, would take some brave steps towards providing an ongoing framework, perhaps giving the Commission a lead for ongoing, coherent, constructive engagement with countries like Niger.
Yet, the way in which this crisis has been exploited to criticise the slowness of the donors and to accuse them of failing to provide aid to people in danger, prompts me to make a handful of remarks aimed simply at presenting an objective analysis of the prevailing situation in Niger and at offering accurate information, at least with regard to European aid.
Niger is one of the poorest countries on the planet.
It forms part of the driest region of the Sahel, where the supply of food is always in the balance.
The invasions of locusts at the end of the summer of 2004 and the poor rainfall in several areas of the Sahel, and particularly in certain regions of Niger, resulted in a very poor harvest.
As far back as September 2004, the Commission released EUR&#160;25.5&#160;million for the anti-locust campaign in the most affected countries of the Sahel, that is to say Senegal, Chad, Mauritania, Mali and Niger, and funds have been allocated to the FAO (the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation).
In March, the Government of Niger, relying on information from the national agency for the prevention and management of food crises, broadly supported by the Commission, released money to buy 42&#160;000 tonnes of grain resold cheaply, and distributed food in return for work requiring high-intensity labour.
It was then that the humanitarian partners appeared.
The Commission thus took two urgent decisions, through ECHO, to release a total amount of EUR&#160;6.3&#160;million.
The Commission is obviously prepared to step up its aid if additional needs emerge.
The European Commission has also released EUR&#160;2&#160;million for Mali, EUR&#160;4.6&#160;million for Eritrea and EUR&#160;4.5&#160;million for Ethiopia, countries that have also been affected by food and nutrition crisis situations.
That is precisely the policy that has been adopted by the Commission over many years in an attempt to respond to this crisis on a long-term basis.
The Commission is Niger’s principal donor.
The budget heading ‘food security’ is devoting EUR&#160;15&#160;million to a support programme (2004 to 2006) for the national agency for the prevention and management of food crises.
But for a handful of European countries, the Commission is, however, practically alone in helping this country.
Yet, it must be stated right now that, whatever the Commission may do for Niger, the challenge remains immense.
The Commission is prepared to give its backing to an independent evaluation aimed at identifying the means for improving aid coordination in a similar situation.
I have always paid tribute to the expertise and commitment of the humanitarian organisations that are our partners, but the remarks that I heard from a number of them about the food crises in Africa, whether in the Sahel, the Horn of Africa or South Africa, asserting that the problem was due to the inadequate donor response, surprised me.
The food crises in Africa – as you are very well aware – are complex phenomena that are the result of several factors: the climate, demographics, the state of health of the populations – one only has to think, for example, of the disastrous effects of AIDS in southern Africa as a result of lower physical resistance – political governance and economic governance.
Rest assured that the Commission will remain extremely vigilant, and I hope that, from now on, when we become aware of a problem and an appeal is made, we will find operator and partner organisations to enable us to work more swiftly. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Not unexpectedly, such will is lacking in totalitarian states, where religion is perceived merely as a possible threat to the political stability of the ruling regimes.
This, it appears, is the case with China.
China could become a strategic partner for the European Union in the effort to create a new world order.
Our positive approach to China cannot overlook violations of human rights in the People’s Republic of China, nor can it condone attacks on political and trade union freedoms.
In its resolution, the European Parliament highlights violations of fundamental human rights in China, notably concerning freedom of religion, and in particular as regards Christian churches and denominations.
This is a cause of great concern for us, as is the situation of the Protestant churches.
The Chinese authorities must undertake to guarantee compliance with Article&#160;36 of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China, which provides for freedom of religion in China.
On 30&#160;April&#160;2005 a court in Changsha sentenced him to 10&#160;years’ imprisonment for revealing State secrets.
If what the European Union wants is policy on China to be credible, it must demand much more clearly that it radically improve its policy on human rights.
The European Union-China dialogue on human rights is a good instrument for doing this, but I fear that it is clearly being underused.
There are various problems that China is not dealing with responsibly, given its role in the world, which is becoming increasingly interdependent: trade union freedom, freedom of expression, press freedom and also religious freedom.
I am one of those who advocate that governmental and public institutions should be secular in nature and that it is essential to ensure the separation of political and religious powers, but I also believe that true secularism must guarantee freedom of religious practice in the private sphere.
Although the Chinese leaders are no longer Communists, they have unfortunately retained the worst features of the Communist state tradition.
Even in this House, there are those who, when they speak, cannot bring themselves to denounce the violations of Christians’ human rights in China unless they have prefaced them with expressions of hostility to the Church that have nothing whatever to do with this issue, and who, in a debate devoted to the fundamental rights of victims of persecution, cannot refrain from indulging in criticism of World Youth Day.
The same can be said of Chancellor Schröder, to whose solitary attempt at relaxing the arms embargo we have, thank God, put a stop.
It is precisely this government violation of the freedom of religion in the People’s Republic of China that has led to a growing stream of flourishing, non-registered Protestant house churches.
What was particularly shocking was the account of the raid on 7 August this year on a Protestant house church in Shenyang province.
During a recent inquiry into whether it is the central government or local authorities that are responsible for the violations of freedom of religion in China, a salient point came to light.
Some local authorities are sympathetic towards Christian fellow citizens and actively protect them on account of their loyal contribution to the local economic and social development.
Respect for fundamental human rights, including freedom of religion, is not an internal Chinese concern.
We should also remember, however, that there were and still are political systems that only recognise religious leaders of different persuasions if they support the theory that all authority is God-given, even the cruellest.
China should respect not only freedom of religion, but also the independence of churches and religious associations.
One example given by Amnesty International was the case of Zhang&#160;Rongliang, who was the leader of one of the largest house church networks in China.
He was detained in his village; the police searched every house in that village, confiscating any Christian material; his wife and child have been in hiding; he has been imprisoned five times for a total of 12 years, during which time he was severely tortured.
This House has also raised the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, the Tibetan monk, who was sentenced to death by the Chinese authorities in an unfair trial.
Paragraph 3, which asks that it should be made clear to the Chinese authorities that a genuine partnership can only develop when shared values are fully respected and put into practice, ends up being hypocritical.
I urge my fellow Members not to vote for this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the People’s Republic of China is not complying with the principle of respect for the fundamental human rights of the individual.
Over 126 families lost loved ones in the 1989&#160;Tiananmen Square massacre, and the circumstances surrounding that event remain unclear.
According to Amnesty International by the end of last year alone over 50 persons were imprisoned for publishing on the Internet information that could be damaging to the authorities.
Amnesty International has also reported that 3&#160;400 people were executed and over 6&#160;000 sentenced to death in 2004 in China.
The Chinese Government is mercilessly exterminating the people of Tibet.
I want them to bring justice to the Tibetans and withdraw their threat of imposing their Panchen Lama.
I want them to listen to the mother of Wang Nan, who died in Tiananmen Square.
Although significant progress has been made on human rights issues in China over recent years, in particular in the area of economic and social rights, the European Union remains concerned by the overall human rights situation in the country and, more specifically, by the restrictions on civil and political rights that have been enforced.
The Union, in particular, has continually expressed its deep concern regarding the situation of individuals who have been persecuted or stripped of their fundamental rights for having openly practised their faith, no matter, moreover, what their religion or belief.
In the latter case, the European Union specifically made calls, during the last session of the human rights dialogue held in Luxembourg on 24 and 25 February 2005, for the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion and Belief to be able to travel to China as soon as possible.
We hope that the next session of the specific dialogue on human rights, which will take place in Beijing on 24 and 25 October 2005, will enable significant progress to be made. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The example of the continued imprisonment of two ill parliamentarians, Riad Seif and Mamoun al-Homsi, and the recent persecution of many civil activists, such as Hasan Zeino and Yassin al-Hamwi, are pertinent proof of that.
We call upon the Syrian authorities, and especially the current President, Mr Bashar al-Assad, who has given hopeful signs of wanting to open up the Syrian political system, dominated for many years by the Ba'ath party, to proceed in a speedy and determined fashion in the much needed process of democratisation and reform of his country.
The problem concerning Tunisia demonstrates in a general manner how seriously we treat human rights in our Association Agreements.
Mrs&#160;Patrie and I, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the President of Parliament, Mr&#160;Borrell, sent letters in August calling for the release of these two political prisoners who have already served two thirds of their prison sentences.
Furthermore, like Mrs De Keyser, we are calling for the establishment, within the context of the Association Agreement, of a sub-committee on human rights in relation to Syria, as has been done in the case of Jordan or Morocco, with a view to holding a structured dialogue on human rights and democracy.
Over 40 years ago, the desire for greatness caused Syria to join with Egypt and Yemen in leading the attempt to create a United Arab Republic.
Over the years, violent acts by exiles from other countries have been supported from Syrian territory and it is also suspected that recent political assassinations in Lebanon were organised from Syria.
The European Union hopes to establish strong relations with all the states in its immediate surroundings, including all countries around the Mediterranean.
The al-Assad family’s criminal regime must not be rewarded for bad behaviour.
Since 1963, Syria has operated under a state of perpetual emergency, which is the legal basis for many of the repressive instruments imposed by the government and which it justifies on the grounds of the ongoing conflict with Israel following Syria's loss of the Golan Heights in 1967 and the struggle against Islamist terrorists who oppose the secular socialist state.
More recently, as Syria has pursued a more active engagement with the EU through participating in the Barcelona Process and signing a EuroMed association agreement, all areas of its domestic policy have been subject to intense international scrutiny, in particular its poor human rights track record and alleged holding of political prisoners, with deaths in custody and arbitrary arrests, the preventing of free assembly or of citizens from leaving the country, and, of course, the use of torture.
Matters have not been helped by Syria's lamentable behaviour in turning a blind eye to Islamist terrorists crossing into Iraq from its territory in spite of its own fight against Islamism, as well as its covert support to terrorist training for Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah, in spite of its continuing denials of such support.
This resolution calls for clemency for a number of cases cited by Amnesty International and there can be no doubt that the plight of the stateless Kurds in Hassake and the discrimination against the still remaining small Jewish community are totally unacceptable.
In Syria, the arrival in power of President&#160;Al-Assad has given rise to a great deal of hope.
I fully support the European Parliament’s motion for a resolution calling on the Syrian authorities to release political prisoners held in that country.
It is, however, difficult for me to support the proposal in the draft calling on Syria to guarantee that those arrested will be well treated.
It is essential for human rights and Syria’s respect for them to be a when it comes to the Union entering into an Association Agreement with Syria.
It would be inconceivable for us to be associated with a country that held political prisoners and practised torture and other forms of anti-democratic repression, resulting in the persecution of religious minorities such as Jews or Christians. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, unfortunately the hopes cultivated even about the recent conference of the Ba'ath party in Syria have quickly been dashed.
The regime continues its anti-democratic methods and autocratic practices against any protestors.
The two former members of parliament in prison whose immediate release we are calling for – together with an immediate end to all political prosecutions – are also victims of the accusation of nepotistic behaviour on the part of the regime.
The European Commission’s Delegation in Damascus is very closely monitoring the detention of these two political prisoners.
The law, however, requires the two political prisoners to sign a declaration announcing that they will cease all future political activities detrimental to the Syrian State.
From a Syrian point of view, therefore, nothing more can be done to release the prisoners.
With regard to the Association Agreement negotiations, the Commission remains convinced that a human rights dialogue will be more effective in the framework of the contractual relations provided for in the Agreement.
As regards enhancing the MEDA programmes with the aim of supporting the development of a democratic society, the Commission, under the current national indicative programme with Syria, continues to have support for civil society as one of its priorities in the area of cooperation, and it hopes to continue along these lines thanks to future programmes.
By arranging the military withdrawal from Lebanon, Syria has taken a first positive step towards implementing Resolution 1559 of the United Nations Security Council.
It is clear, however, that, owing to the current situation, that is to say the continued and visible presence of the Syrian secret service in Lebanon, as well as the lack of cooperation in Iraq, Syria absolutely must take strong and positive action in order to restore confidence and must do this before it considers any possible signing of the Agreement. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a few moments. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is an oral amendment to recital E: when talking about ‘Riad al-Hamood, civil society activist’, it must be specified that ‘Kurdish’ precedes ‘civil society activist’. &#160;&#160; That concludes the voting, and we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has today voted in favour of a report on major and neglected diseases in the developing countries.
We should prefer to encourage the pharmaceutical industry voluntarily and for ethical and moral reasons to decide to re-invest a portion of its profits in research into diseases affecting poor countries.
In those cases, the governments concerned must be strongly encouraged to abolish such taxes. &#160;&#160; The global fight against infectious diseases is a very important issue demanding extensive international commitment.
The June List is of the view that international cooperation should be practised within already established organisations, such as the World Health Organisation (WHO), with skills and experience in this area.
In this context, we must not forget that certain diseases hamper the development of the world’s poorest countries.
