Council Question Time The next item is Question Time (B6-0125/2007).
President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Madam President, the common system of value-added tax was established in 1967 by the first and second VAT Directives.
This minimum rate is fixed until 31 December 2010.
So that the effects of the reduced rates can be more accurately assessed, the directive also lays down that, by 30 June 2007 at the latest, the Commission is to present to the European Parliament and the Council an overall assessment report on the impact of reduced rates applying to locally provided services, focusing especially on job creation, economic growth and the proper functioning of the internal market and based on a study carried out by an independent economic think-tank. (EL) Madam President, Minister, as the Commission has said, you must have information on the impact on economic prosperity and job creation in the Member States from different value added tax rates at your disposal and make it known by 30 June 2007.
Mr Mavrommatis, I also said that there has been a variety of developments and decisions within the scope that exists for this in the European Union.
The Directive, which is based on Article 13 of the EC Treaty, lays down the minimum requirements to be met by all Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, I would have to have another look into the circumstances you have just presented.
Mr Medina Ortega, the migration issue has been the subject of frequent discussions in past rounds.
We agree that, eventually, this will have to be discussed in the light of the Constitutional Treaty, but this is an urgent catastrophe and requires urgent action.
In addition, in the form of Frontex, we have without doubt hit upon an initial approach to helping countries who may be unable to solve certain problems locally, and who receive support from Frontex.
The Presidency informs Parliament regularly about transatlantic relations, including about issues connected with international law.
One such briefing was given here in the run-up to the EU-USA Summit on 24 April 2007.
The Council noted the European Parliament resolution of 14 February 2007 on extraordinary rendition on the agenda of the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 5 March 2007.
Subject: Deployment of US missile defence system in EU Member States The USA's plan to set up a missile defence system in Member States of the European Union - Poland and the Czech Republic - on the pretext of guarding against missile attacks from Iran and North Korea has given rise to public concern in Europe, such plans being perceived as making Europe a target as well as giving rise to new divisions.
This subject was also discussed at an informal meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers in Oslo on 26-27 April. (EL) Madam President, I am surprised by the Council's reply.
This debate was continued in Riga, but no definitive result has been achieved as yet.
The physical distance or proximity to the 27 Member States is not, in itself, decisive as regards relations between the individual countries and regions of the European Union.
The currently valid Council Decision, which was adopted on 27 November 2001 and amended on 19 March 2007, will run until 31 December 2013.
You are aware, of course, that countries such as Andorra or Liechtenstein are not members of the European Union even though they are situated in Europe.
Mr Posselt, the entire political situation in Kosovo continues to be determined by the status process.
Article 28 of the Treaty on European Union lays down the principles for financing civilian and military crisis management operations.
Athena is the mechanism created by the Council in 2004 to manage the financing of the joint costs of such operations.
As Council President, I can inform you that no initiatives have been taken in order to provide the Commission with a mandate to start negotiations on corresponding agreements with Georgia.
As I am sure you are aware, the Regulation on roaming, which is based on Article 95 of the EC Treaty, is subject to the codecision procedure pursuant to Article 251 of the EC Treaty.
Subject: Implementation of the EU's Neighbourhood Policy The European Union's Neighbourhood Policy covers 16 neighbouring countries, the Mediterranean countries of Egypt, Algeria, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Syria and Tunisia and the Newly Independent States of Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
ENP action plans have been concluded with five of the six partner countries in the East, the first being that with Ukraine on 21 February 2005 and that with Moldova on 22 February 2005.
The following ENP action plans have been adopted with regard to partner countries in the South: that with Israel on 11 April 2005, with the Palestinian Authority on 4 May 2005, with Jordan on 2 June 2005, with Morocco on 22 June 2005, with Tunisia on 4 July 2005, with Lebanon on 19 January 2007 and with Egypt on 6 March 2007.
The multiannual appropriations for the country programmes under the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, ENPI, for 2007-2010 are as follows: EUR 220 million for Algeria, EUR 98.4 million for Armenia, EUR 92 million for Azerbaijan, EUR 20 million for Belarus, EUR 558 million for Egypt, EUR 120.4 million for Georgia, EUR 8 million for Israel, EUR 265 million for Jordan, EUR 187 million for Lebanon, EUR 8 million for Libya, EUR 209.7 million for Moldova, EUR 654 million for Morocco, EUR 632 million for the Palestinian Authority, EUR 130 million for Syria, EUR 300 million for Tunisia and finally EUR 494 million for Ukraine.
I can only say, Mrs Budreikaitė, that the countries you mention are cooperating on drawing up these action plans and have every interest in these.
