Promoting social inclusion and combating poverty (short presentation) The next item is the report by Gabriele Zimmer, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including child poverty, in the EU.
Our committee held very vigorous debates about the reports being presented today, with more than 200 amendments, 40 compromise amendments and two hearings for experts and stakeholders, all in close cooperation with the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
The committee makes it absolutely clear that, given the 78 million people living in poverty, including 19 million children, the EU and its Member States have an obligation to initiate specific, measurable goals to promote social integration and combat poverty.
We point out that in our view, access to high-quality services provides crucial momentum for the social integration of adults and, particularly, for that of children, particularly children at risk of poverty.
Furthermore, we affirm this Parliament's resolution in January this year on combating the phenomenon of street children by 2015.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (BG) Mr President, colleagues, I would like to express my support for Gabriele Zimmer's report on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. - (GA) Social inclusion policies should be focused, primarily, on a person's right to live with dignity and should guarantee their involvement in society.
in writing. - The necessity of eradicating child poverty is felt to be an important issue within the European Union.
in writing. - (ET) Social inclusion and child poverty are things we should take seriously and in that respect the committee's initiative is welcome.
We should acknowledge that in most of the EU States where it is established, the minimum wage does not provide for the normal income.
Benefits of this kind should cover extra costs in connection with personal support, and medical and social care.
The benefits in place in the United Kingdom for the elderly during cold weather to enable them to keep their homes warm and combat energy poverty are an excellent example of what other Member States, including Estonia, should take as a model.
