It reads 'I do not agree with the Anti-Slavery Conference in Durban.
There are therefore no programmes being broadcast from Finland, while some Member States can get three or even four channels.
The judgment was delivered in open session in Luxembourg on 2 October 2001.
As a result, the suspensive order handed down by the President of the Court of First Instance on 25 November 1999 at the end of the summary proceedings lapsed when the judgment was delivered, in other words, on 2 October 2001, pursuant to Article 107(3) of the Court' s Rule of Procedure.
Therefore, Parliament' s decision of 14 September 1999 not to recognise the existence of the Technical Group of Independent Members is once again fully effective.
The second aspect is that, on several occasions, the Court recognises that disparities do exist in the treatment of the Members of the European Parliament.
The Court mentions this in Paragraphs 201 and 57 of yesterday' s judgment.
The judgment is also very clear when it comes to the duties of Parliament.
Among the grounds of the judgment, number 157 expressly states that it is Parliament' s duty, within the framework of its relevant internal procedures, to investigate whether the disparities in treatment of the two categories of Members arising from the aforesaid internal procedures are all necessary and, therefore, objectively justified.
Further to certain remarks by Members, I would again like to make it clear that our Rules of Procedure, decided on by this Parliament, make a clear distinction between Members belonging to a group and pooling their rights in it, and those who do not belong to a group.
Rule 30 of our Rules of Procedure expressly states that Members not belonging to a group have the use of a Secretariat with all other details being decided on by the Presidents.
That is now the legal position as handed down by the Court of First Instance, and we should proceed in accordance with it in the coming months.
Extraordinary European Council of 21 September 2001 in Brussels - Preparatory work for the European Council in Ghent The next item is the Council and Commission statements, firstly, on the Extraordinary European Council held in Brussels on 21 September 2001, and secondly, on the preparatory work for the European Council in Ghent.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was keen to inform you as quickly as possible about the progress of the work done at the extraordinary European Council held on 21 September involving the Heads of State and Government of the European Union.
As you know, the European Council met to analyse the international situation following the terrorist attacks in the United States and to give the necessary impetus to the actions taken by the European Union.
The talks rapidly led to unanimous conclusions, the text of which was made public on the evening of 21 September.
I do not intend to read it out here in its entirety, but I would like to emphasise the salient points.
The unanimity displayed by the European Council, the quality of its debate, and the adoption of comprehensive and specific measures all show that the Union proved to be equal to the challenge.
The first message is one of solidarity and cooperation with the United States.
We are prepared to commit ourselves to this line, each Member State according to its means.
The second message that the European Union would like to get across following this Council is that it is fully committed to fighting terrorism, and to this end has adopted an action plan comprising five series of measures.
The same European Council has also taken a firm decision to adopt measures for identifying terrorists and the organisations that support them in order to draw up lists of terrorist organisations.
In this connection, the role of Europol and its cooperation with the United States will be reinforced.
The second series of measures in the action plan, which I consider to be very important, involves the development of international legal instruments.
The fourth series of measures involves air safety.
As part of this, the European Union certainly intends to enhance its role, with the assistance of the United States, Russia and its partners in Arab countries, in order to work towards finding a long-term solution to the Middle East conflict.
Conflict prevention also implies an unstinting commitment on the part of the European Union to integrate all countries into a global system of security and sustainable prosperity.
On this issue, the Commission will devise projects to assist Afghan refugees in neighbouring countries.
To sum up, I would like to add two comments.
First of all, as is so often the case, the crisis situation created by the attacks in New York and Washington has given impetus to European unification.
The Extraordinary European Council on 21 September provided an opportunity to take practical decisions and to display genuine European leadership.
The Belgian Presidency will endeavour to follow up its commitments, particularly at the forthcoming General Affairs Council in October and the Ghent European Council.
Secondly, while making the fight against terrorism a priority, we must not be diverted from other projects that are fundamental to European integration.
With regard to the preparations for the Laeken Declaration, the President of the General Affairs Council will report on the talks held to date by the foreign affairs ministers on this subject.
The Belgian Presidency hopes to be able to consolidate this progress at the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg on 8 and 9 October and then build on it with regard to two additional aspects: the status of the candidate countries at the Convention and the organisation of a Civil Forum.
At the General Affairs Council of 8 October, the presidency will also give the Member States an initial indication of the possible structure of the Laeken Declaration.
This declaration was worded in such a way so that it is possible to widen the debate, using the four topics listed as a basis.
It has been clear since our meeting in Genval that the Laeken Declaration will simply ask the questions and will not necessarily seek to give any pre-prepared answers.
Where the enlargement of the European Union is concerned, the European Council will be asked by the presidency to consider a report drafted by the European Commission on the implementation of a specific enlargement strategy.
The aim in this respect is to check that the road map adopted by the Nice European Council and confirmed by the Göteborg European Council as a general framework for negotiation is being respected.
Madam President, Minister Michel, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission and its President, Roman Prodi, who is currently in Brussels attending the European Union meeting with Russia, I would like to make a statement on the recent Extraordinary European Council held in Brussels and the opportunities arising from the preparatory work of the Ghent European Council.
Before I speak about the three subjects that Minister Michel also mentioned, which will be on the agenda of the Ghent Council, I would like to briefly talk about the Extraordinary European Council held on 24 September, in the wake of the tragic attacks on New York City and Washington.
As you know, this Council was, first of all, an opportunity to unanimously express our shared sadness and solidarity with the American people.
On the contrary, it is this fight that brings together all the nations of the world, as equal partners, against the forces that set out to destroy them, without regard for human life, without any respect for the values that people share and that transcend borders and cultures.
At the Extraordinary Council, the European Union outlined the main points of a common response to the threat of terrorism, a threat that is unfortunately not unfamiliar to some of our Member States and which the Heads of State and Government now wish to combat together, using every possible means.
At the informal meeting at Ghent, the Commission will report back on developments in the economic situation, and more generally, on the various measures that were put forward on 21 September by the European Council.
The Laeken European Council will provide an opportunity to give a more detailed operational report.
In the coming months, the European Union must demonstrate that it is able to organise, take action, react swiftly and, of course, respect the fundamental freedoms, because this situation forces us, once again, to reconcile freedom and security.
The most urgent measures, on which my colleague Mr Vitorino is working, include the introduction of a European arrest warrant to replace current extradition procedures and the adoption of a common definition of terrorism.
I would point out that the Extraordinary European Council hoped to implement all the measures decided by the European Council at its meeting in Tampere in October 1999.
With the same determination, the Commission yesterday referred to you, Madam President, a draft Community regulation enabling us to freeze the assets of individuals or bodies that may have links with terrorism.
The Laeken European Council will therefore be a good opportunity to assess very carefully the progress made on creating the area of freedom, security and justice laid down at Tampere.
Ladies and gentlemen, let there be no mistake: whether it be regarding these matters and the other measures announced in Brussels on 21 September, the funding of terrorism, which I have just mentioned, the situation of air transport or the aid that we must give to the Afghan refugees, the European Union has a duty to achieve results, first and foremost to the Afghan refugees, who are expecting some progress to be made.
The euro is a political and economic undertaking; for almost three years, we have kept inflation under control and have had sustained growth because of economic and monetary union.
The euro will provide the European Union with better protection against external economic forces and against international financial crises.
They will gain a better understanding of what an internal market can offer, one that is made up of almost 400 million citizens and consumers, 300 million of which will use the single currency.
From 1 January 2002, the euro will, undoubtedly, make Europe more tangible, more visible than ever, and I believe that the circulation of the euro notes and coins will show in a very specific manner that the people of Europe are managing to achieve their common goals.
The euro will therefore become a symbol of stability, peace and shared identity.
Yet, when faced with such challenges, we must also hope and ensure that the changeover to the euro notes and coins is as straightforward as possible for 300 million people in 12 countries, when so many new methods of payments are introduced, along with 15 billion notes and 50 billion coins.
With the support of the European Union, Member States have put in place national plans for the changeover to the euro.
Next week, my colleague, Pedro Solbes, will present a communication on the introduction of notes and coins, so that, in Ghent, the Heads of State and Government can put the finishing touches to the preparatory work that is underway.
The European Union, working together, must ensure that this information is circulated as far and wide as possible in order to respond to the concerns that exist, and which are having a noticeable effect on price stability, and to force us to collectively resolve any technical issues in an accurate and practical manner.
The second subject which Mr Michel raised, and which the Heads of State and Government will bring up in Ghent, is preparations for enlargement.
The Heads of State and Government will discuss enlargement because it is important to keep up the strongest possible political momentum for this project, whatever technical difficulties we encounter in relation to any particular aspect.
Moreover, the European Council approved the strategy we had proposed for bringing the accession negotiations to a successful conclusion.
These decisions unequivocally confirmed that enlargement is an irreversible process.
We know that enlargement is a difficult project, but we also want it to be a very ambitious one.
It will succeed only if it enjoys the support of the people of all the countries concerned, by which of course I mean the candidate countries and their citizens, but also the citizens of the present EU Member States.
To that end we want to mobilise the Commission delegations in the candidate countries and our representatives in the Member States.
But everyone must play their part, the institutions and the European elected representatives, as also the national authorities and, more broadly, all the opinion-formers in Europe.
For a long time, in fact, the European Parliament and the Commission had shared the interest shown by several Member States in a method inspired by the convention that prepared for the Charter of Fundamental Rights and brought it to a successful conclusion.
The Commission obviously hopes the next General Affairs Council will formally mark the support of all the Member States for this formula.
Another link we would like to see is between the activities of the convention and the more general debate that will continue to be held and in which a growing number of associations, interest groups and citizens is already taking part.
This forum on the future of the Union, for which more and more people are perceiving the need, should encourage an exchange of views that very closely reflects the concerns of civil society.
As to the procedures for organising this future convention, several questions still need to be resolved before the Laeken European Council.
It would be rather paradoxical to try to strengthen Europe's institutional structure, to strengthen the Community model, while at the same time weakening the major, or some of the major Community policies or allowing them to 'unravel' .
The four main themes identified in Nice must be tackled.
I listened very carefully to Mr Michel's very coherent and, I think, ambitious words on how to consolidate the achievements of 50 years of European integration.
That could mean that when the environment itself changes we have to make changes to the course of European integration, although without losing sight of its points of reference or its raison d'être.
It is these principles and these common objectives that we must reaffirm at this moment in time when it appears so necessary for Europe to stand united beside our closest allies.
So I would like to conclude by emphasising that the Commission attaches great importance to this Laeken declaration, which should in a sense set the tone and determine the spirit in which, as Mr Michel just said, we need to approach all the institutional questions, so as to ensure that our institutions are in a position to achieve our common goals.
It is important, though, to point out that this challenge has been thrown down not only to the United States and the West but also to the community of nations as a whole.
That means to say that these terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center were an attack on nearly all the nations of the world.
Getting to grips with terrorism is an intellectual, political, economic and military task, and it can only be done in the long term.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned Ghent.
I am saying this as a German, for eleven years ago, on 3 October 1990, we were celebrating the unity of Germany, which was only possible because the road towards it was prepared by those Europeans who now wish to join the European Union.
but I call upon you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to have the European Parliament in Brussels more securely guarded by the security forces of the Kingdom of Belgium.
I ask you, in your capacity as the currently responsible President-in-Office of the Council to use your influence with the Belgian government so that the security of the European Parliament in Brussels may, so far as possible, be assured by Belgium. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group endorses the conclusions reached at the Extraordinary European Council at Brussels.
I should like to emphasise that in our view it is very important for this action to be included in the framework of United Nations' Resolution 1368 (2001), as stated in the Council' s conclusions.
In addition, Madam President, I should like to comment on the Ghent Council.
We do not wish to be involved in that kind of game. (Applause from the left) Madam President, the Liberal Democrats in this House welcome the decisions of the extraordinary European Council.
We are pleased that it took on board proposals from this House in the field of justice and home affairs on combating terrorism and indeed that it reviewed the Union's policies in other areas to ensure that we have joined-up thinking in our approach to this very serious problem.
Liberal Democrats welcome particularly the Commission's proposals of yesterday for a Council Regulation to freeze the assets of terrorist groups.
I hope that the Committee of Permanent Representatives meeting this morning will add its request for urgency to that of the Commission.
Commissioner Patten yesterday rightly lamented the inability of the European Union to act fast in situations like this and thus to enjoy the confidence of its Member States and to coordinate the policies of its Member States in an area where a supranational threat requires a supranational response.
At times like this the Union must act fast, but finds it cannot act fast.
I hope that the convention set up by Laeken will look at invoking Article 42 of the TEU to bring these policy areas fully within the core competences of the Union.
Many measures will be needed in the coming months.
Clearly, in our consideration of these, a delicate balance will need to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the civil liberties which make our democracy what it is.
The President-in-Office said this morning that we should not be blown off course on our other agendas.
The House has received a proposed regulation on the freezing of assets.
In conclusion, Article 6 says that the Union is founded on rights.
The Charter defines those rights and we hope that the convention will agree to insert the Charter fully into the Treaties.
Several colleagues have already discussed the first challenge, namely to avoid a clash of civilisations with the Islamic world.
Creating a very broad coalition means, of course, securing the participation of as many countries as possible, but without losing sight of the fact that our enemies' enemies are not always our friends and realising that no state that forms part of this coalition is exempt from its duties in regard to democracy, the protection of human rights and respect for minorities.
The second challenge, and it is certainly not insignificant, is to strengthen police and judicial cooperation without compromising individual rights and freedoms.
In fact here, in the European Union, the parliamentary control is totally inadequate.
I therefore think, and I believe we agree fairly unanimously, that it is important to include judicial and police cooperation in the first pillar.
We will have to mount a large-scale diplomatic action to persuade as many states as possible to support this project, in particular the United States, which is after all a vital player.
The third challenge is the problem of depriving the terrorist networks of their means of action, both financial and technical.
Money laundering is obviously an important weapon in the hands of international terrorist groups and international terrorist networks.
I was struck by some information, which has not been denied, to the effect that even before the New York and Washington attacks it appears that shares in some companies - and I am thinking in particular of the two American airline companies and several insurance companies that were affected by the attack - were jettisoned just before the attacks.
Madam President, once again, we declare our condemnation of any form of terrorism, whatever its source.
As well as destroying human life, terrorism takes any possibility or capacity for democratic initiative away from the huge numbers of men and women who are fighting to change the unjust social and economic system of this world.
We believe that, at this moment in history, one of the ways in which the European Union can combat and isolate any form of violence is to make a concerted effort to achieve the objective of giving the peoples of Israel and Palestine two autonomous, sovereign States, as stipulated in all those UN resolutions which Israel has been violating for years.
Therefore, any extension of the competences or spheres of operation of bodies such as Europol or Eurojust must go hand in hand with the creation of a system of judicial and, most importantly, democratic controls, with Parliament playing an active role.
This is another area in which we must take action if we genuinely want to eliminate terrorism.
Mr President, EU leaders met in Ghent on 21 September to evaluate how the Union should react to the horrific terrorist attacks in America.
I welcome the solidarity which all EU leaders showed with the American government and the American people in their time of mourning and grief.
I also very much welcome the concrete plan of action that EU leaders are now going to implement in an effort to tackle international terrorism head-on.
That means, in the simplest terms, that we are going to have to implement wide-ranging measures if we are going to be in a position to defeat the scourge of international terrorism.
In line with the conclusions of the Tampere Summit, EU leaders are committed to introducing a European arrest warrant, designed to supplant the current system of extradition in Europe.
Our finance ministers are going to bring forward proposals outlining a timetable for the implementation of the draft directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering.
There has also been agreement on paying closer attention to the draft directive on insider dealing so as to guarantee that all activities linked to terrorism come under the auspices of the directive.
Intelligence agencies within the Member States of the Union, together with Europol, must work together more closely in terms of exchanging intelligence information if the terror networks operating in Europe are to be broken.
We must all work together.
A majority of MEPs want to see the European Parliament' s representation doubled from 16 to 30.
Democracies can govern the EU jointly, but there is no European people, as such, to have given the European Parliament a mandate to negotiate a new constitution for the EU.
My group and the intergroup SOS Democracy instead proposes that we let each individual national parliament present proposals for the next treaty and then let representatives of the national parliaments prepare the draft treaty that is to replace the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We would, at the same time, call upon the prime ministers to pledge that the next treaty will be subject to referendums in all the Member States.
There are, in my view, two main risks.
I believe we all agree that this is not a clash of civilisation between Islam and Christianity but, obviously, a clash of civilisation between democracy and non-democracy and that we have to take the offensive in that conflict.
We must help all those people in the Arab countries, in the Muslim countries, who are fighting, often at the price of their freedom, at the price of torture, and often at the price of death; and this Parliament, our European Union, is certainly not doing enough in that respect.
Mr President, the MPF delegation members approve both the 'solidarity and cooperation with the United States' and the 'European policy' headings of the action plan against terrorism adopted by the extraordinary European Council of 21 September.
Similarly, it may seem a good idea in theory to give Europol new powers, but this organisation is not doing very well as it is and first we would have to call for an independent and objective audit of the way it operates.
Like the Council, we also call for the speedy ratification of all existing international conventions, like the convention on the financing of terrorism, whose implementation has been seriously delayed.
It would be difficult to deny that the inquiry into the 11 September attacks is currently concentrating on Europe and that it shows that, for years now, the terrorists have been centring their preparations in Europe, which they have used as their base.
In fact it was only yesterday and in this very place that I accused the Commission of all too often concealing the problems of illegal immigration.
The Council must, therefore, call immediately for a list of all the documents that need reviewing from a security point of view and, in particular, that disastrous Article 62(1) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which promises a total absence of any kind of control of individuals at the internal frontiers five years after its entry into force.
That means we need to review Article 67 of the Treaty of Amsterdam... (The President cut the speaker off) Since the attacks of 11 September, the world has been on tenterhooks.
Mr President, I very much hope that you will be able to carry out your action plan of 21 September effectively, and that the Belgian Presidency will be able to take specific decisions in this connection.
Not only in the interests of the safety of the MEPs of the 15 Member States, but also in the interests of their colleagues, their visitors, the safety of the city, which is the capital of Europe, and in the interest of the values for which we all stand.
Secondly, the European Union must play its part in forging a worldwide political alliance against terrorism.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is regrettable that the European Council, and the Council of Interior and Justice Ministers as well, have only now got around to partially implementing plans that already existed and had been thoroughly worked out.
On the contrary, we seek a more just world order because that reflects our values and our dignity as Europeans - a dignity we share with all the peoples of the earth!
Fifthly, if it is true to say that the world is no longer what it was before 11 September, then the European Union cannot stay as it is.
It is at this crossroads that you and all of us will be standing in Ghent and Laeken.
In this crisis, Europe can - and I would add - must show its citizens what the European Union is really worth.
Mr President, 11 September will go down in history.
The World Bank has produced a report showing that between 20000 and 40 000 children per day will die of hunger because of the economic recession caused by the events of 11 September.
We are, of course, all appalled at what happened on 11 September, but what these events showed us first and foremost was, of course, that the world has shrunk and that no one is safe.
Mr President, the possible establishment of a Convention is taking up most of the attention in the debate on the future of the European Union.
In short, 2003 is far too early and 2004 is far too hectic.
Mr President, the attacks in New York and in Washington also claimed many of our own citizens.
The improvement of international relations also strengthens international security.
That is why we need to make good use of the structures in place, such as the Mediterranean dialogue and the United Nations.
We would only like to adopt one single amendment from the old, socialist resolution, and replace Article 26 on Gibraltar with our own wording.
I think it is important to say, since the question was asked, that the principle of holding a convention to prepare for the IGC has, I believe, been accepted.
What is important to remember is that the number of participants in this convention must be reduced somewhat.
We saw a fairly strong convergence of views in Genval on the need to involve the candidate countries in the convention.
Here, the presidency is putting forward three possible formulas: representation modelled from the outset on that of the Member States, namely one representative of each government and two members of each national parliament - that is conceivable; or one representative per country for the duration of the convention's activities; or, the third formula, progressive representation, consisting of a single representative until the accession treaty has been signed, then representation in line with that of the Member States after the signature.
But let us please not give in to a security phobia, because sooner or later we would all end up as victims and that would be democracy's loss.
I therefore agree that we must avoid any kind of naive optimism in this respect and not forget to continue to fight for and campaign for a democratic society wherever possible in the world.
We must avoid a practice often seen in some countries - and I know this happens in Belgium - where temporary measures are still being applied 50 years later.
Mr Dupuis spoke of the effectiveness of the secret services.
We must not conceal that aspect or pretend the problem no longer exists in certain Arab countries.
I, personally, am convinced that we must strengthen political dialogue wherever we can, a political dialogue without taboos.
I think it is quite possible to impose that dialogue in our relations.
It is a minimum condition and, during my visit to Iran, for example, we agreed to set up a European Union-Iran group, which would have human rights questions as the only item on its agenda.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of 21 September initiated the forthcoming review of our fundamental concepts.
Since 9 November 1989 Europe has known that the cold war is over; but since 11 September 2001 the world has known that this cold war is over and it is now time to form global alliances against terrorism.
Today the right to speak will go to those who can demonstrate their full solidarity with the United States and commit themselves unreservedly to this fight against terrorism.
The European Union knows that not all acts of terrorism are the consequence of poverty, but frustration and humiliation do feed terrorism.
The European Council showed that it was able to draw the consequences of the fight that lies ahead.
Yes, the Union put itself in a position where it could fight the Talibans' money and freeze their assets, thanks to the regulation of 4 July 2001.
Some European countries, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom, have already frozen these assets.
It is an important question because this is the first time Parliament has been consulted on measures of this kind.
These upheavals have come at a moment when the European Union is entering the final stage of its transition to the euro, when it is engaged in vital projects: enlargement, but also the definition of a genuine common foreign and security policy, the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
At the same time, in the countries of the European Union and the United States, suppressive policing measures have been stepped up in order to gag anyone who stands up against or questions their anti-grass roots policy.
The President of the United States said that the war against 'terrorism' will last a long time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I fully support the conclusions of the extraordinary European Summit in Brussels, I can only condemn the amount of time it is taking Europe to make a practical response to terrorism top priority.
It took thousands of deaths for us to be able to come to an agreement on establishing the European search and arrest warrant; it took thousands of innocent victims for us to be able to agree on defining a common strategy to combat terrorism.
Only now is the Union being called upon to participate more actively in the prevention and stabilisation of regional conflicts.
I also expect the Union at last to embrace the possibilities already open to it; that the Member States will at last comply with their obligations and supply the necessary information to Europol in The Hague; and that the counter-terrorist Conventions will at last be brought into force.
Mr President, the tragic events of 11 September have shown, once again, how wide the gap is between the Europe that is and the Europe that ought to be.
The shock we felt at the inconceivable level of violence reached by terrorism must now give way to a practical endeavour to provide Europe with the political and institutional tools it needs to play a role combating terrorism and working towards peace and justice in the world.
Against this tragic backdrop, the decision of the Italian government and the majority supporting it to make changes to the judicial cooperation treaty with Switzerland appears even more serious and irresponsible, changes to its own code of criminal procedure which are in direct conflict with the commitments made at the extraordinary Council and the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
Since I feel that this is not the right place to express an opinion, I call upon the Commission, the Council and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to ascertain whether this measure is in line with the decisions of the extraordinary Summit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the mayor of New York, Rudolph Giuliani, stated before the United Nations General Assembly, the terrorist attack of 11 September was an attack on the very ideal of free, inclusive, civilised society and on its practice of openness and tolerance.
Therefore, I welcome the commitment to be made at Ghent to proceed with the debates on the euro, enlargement and the political integration of Europe at Laeken and through the Convention.
Europe must be capable of taking the initiative in this and many other minor areas to express all that potential for peace and democracy which is its strength and must become the strength of the whole world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we Europeans should be clear in our own minds that we are going to be weighed in the balance in the times that lie ahead.
Suddenly the shock of the brutal terrorist attacks in New York profoundly shook its confidence and its hedonism.
In the immediate aftermath, still in shock, the European Union proved equal to the occasion at the Brussels Summit.
It was fast, clear and precise in its emergency responses.
Europe cannot in future act in such a spontaneous, opportunistic and superficial way.
Without becoming unduly pessimistic about the human condition, Europe must be less ingenuous in the face of the dangers that will arise in the future.
Mr President, the attacks on New York and Washington were a new form of terrorism on a new scale, amounting to an act of war.
The intention of the coalition, led by the United States, to eradicate terrorism deserves the support of the European democracies in particular.
We welcome the measures taken by the European Council since the attacks and we are playing our part in putting them swiftly into effect.
In some cases, these measures should be renewable and temporary.
We affirm our support for the central role he is willing to play in the return to democracy of his country.
We also discussed at the Vatican the values shared by all faiths, including Islam, concerning the integrity of human beings, their rights and the universal belief in the peaceful resolution of disputes, whether in the context of democracy or other systems.
No campaign of this sort and no war, at least no war in which democracies have taken part, has ever been able to create the necessary alliance of nations - because that is the alliance which counts, not the alliance of governments - without offering a vision of a better world at the end of the campaign.
Mr President, a great Italian writer, Oriana Fallaci, breaking years of voluntary silence, has written a major article seeking to stir the consciences of many Europeans involved in the fight against terrorism and to promote the values of freedom, democracy and tolerance throughout the world.
At a time when fresh threats are being made to American targets in Italy, it is the European Union' s duty to take the lead in defending these values, which apply to all citizens.
The statements of the Chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists are, as far as we are concerned, extremely serious and unacceptable, for they amount to interference in the internal affairs of a Member State of the European Union.
It would, in any case, be appropriate for the Chairman of a Parliamentary Group, and also for those holding positions of responsibility in the European institutions - I refer to the absent Mr Michel - not to make statements either of approval or condemnation in this Chamber on the internal affairs of a Member State.
Mr President, the conclusion and the action plan of the extraordinary Council offer a solid basis for a focused, measured, coordinated response to the attacks of 11 September.
For example, the World Bank expects that, as a result of the terrorist attacks, economic growth in the developing countries will drop from 5% to 2%.
Investing in worldwide security means taking safety measures, but it also calls for international solidarity, which is a basis for international cooperation and, along with this, a basis for the worldwide coalition against terrorism.
In this connection, I should like to congratulate the Presidency-in-Office on convening the Extraordinary European Council at Brussels and on placing terrorism on the agenda for the next Council.
I welcome the fact that we are building a worldwide alliance against terrorism, but I would argue very strongly that we also need to build a worldwide alliance against poverty, exploitation and oppression.
The battle against terrorism is above all a battle of values and a battle of ideas.
The statements by our European leaders and President Prodi are very much welcome in this regard.
I condemn utterly the statements by Prime Minister Berlusconi.
It is a disgrace that a country of the European Union is led by a man who can present these ideas in this day and age, particularly when the country is Italy, which in my view has always led in terms of modern ideas.
The very best response, apart from the obvious security measures that we have to take, is to defend our ideas of freedom, of democracy, of justice and of ending exploitation.
Mr President, so much has now been said and written about the tragedy, the crime of 11 September.
I will, therefore, confine myself to three issues: terrorism, Europe and the world.
Yes, we must resolutely declare war on all forms of terrorism, from wherever it comes, the IRA, ETA, the assassins of Claude Erignac, Prefect of Corsica, Osama Bin Laden and his clique and all the others, but without making the stupid and suicidal mistake of lumping them all together.
Our capacity to take in terrorists is now beyond the limit; it is probable that the insane attacks of 11 September were prepared in Europe.
With its tried and tested experience of the world, Europe can and must play a specific role here.
Others place hope in us, await us, call on us, alas, too often without response.
Mr President, following the attacks on 11 September, it is incumbent upon us to come up with a response appropriate to this tremendous challenge, to ensure justice is done and to prevent further attacks.
Mr President, in light of the seriousness of the terrorist attack of 11 September, there are several important questions to be discussed and clarified, relating to our intention to resolutely fight terrorism.
The first question is the need to find effective means to combat terrorism, which do not necessarily entail legislative reform on matters of security.
It is not only the lack of legislation at national or European level, or the lack of coordinated policing at international level.
The problem has much to do both with hesitancy and weakness in the fight against terrorism, which manifest themselves in laxity towards activities of a terrorist nature, in the hope that terrorist acts would always be carried out in the country next door, or in the slow deterioration of methods of defence and security, police forces, information services and armed forces.
European governments which thought that wars had ended once and for all and which often cut the financial resources available for defence and safety cannot, of course, talk loudly about terrorism.
The second question concerns political awareness of the times in which we live.
If we denounce what happened in New York and Washington merely as a criminal act, we will from the start be limiting the scope, the meaning and the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism.
What happened is in reality an act of war, no doubt of a war different to previous wars but, unfortunately, all wars are different to previous wars.
To classify what happened as an act of war is not a mere question of semantics.
It has had major implications, starting with the right of the nation or nations affected to respond with military actions, if necessary, in relation to the country or countries shown to be responsible for supporting or carrying out terrorist acts.
At present this is a basic condition for effectively fighting terrorism, which cannot attain the magnitude of the attack of 11 September without the support of one or more States.
Unfortunately, there has been little discussion on this subject, but it is necessary to know the position of the Council, Parliament and the Commission concerning the need for military intervention against States which perpetrate or support terrorist acts.
Mr President, if our humanitarian aid efforts do not run smoothly, we will create a new breeding ground for the Bin Ladens of this world.
He makes statements and gives an analysis in the Volkskrant of 29 September in which he says that the Arab world is indignant and feels weak vis-à-vis the West, partly as a result of the Gulf War.
With enlargement will come a number of small countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Baltic States.
Not only Flanders, but also Scotland, Wales, the Basque Country, Galicia and others spring to mind.
In other words, if we fail in a future debate to give regions and nations a place in Europe, we in fact further separatism.
Let me say, on behalf of the Commission, that I was touched by the support several of you gave to the work we are doing during these difficult and serious times, side by side with the Council and the European Parliament.
Turning to the most important issue, which almost all speakers addressed, the fight against terrorism, let me remind you of the spirit in which we are undertaking it.
We, and in particular my colleague and friend Mr Vitorino, take account in our activities of the important work done by Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs under its chairman Mr Watson.
To echo Mr Poettering's concern, let me repeat what I said in my statement this morning about the fight against terrorism.
Finally, on terrorism, as part of our collective action, we, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, must implement our common foreign policy by establishing a political dialogue, by preventing and stabilising all the regional conflicts, by giving marked support to development.
We are facing a moment of truth and it is likely that the European Union will emerge stronger from this crisis in terms of the values and rationale of the European project.
Ladies and gentlemen, even if it is difficult to explain this to you at this time of the day and with all this hubbub, I believe there is a link between, on the one hand, the political lessons we have to learn from this crisis and from the tragedy of New York and Washington, which tell us to speed up, to intensify, to prove once again the value of European integration and, on the other hand, that broad debate that began after Nice and is due to conclude in 2002.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is appalling that Commissioner Barnier should be forced to end the debate on terrorism under these conditions.
Nonetheless, turning to that convention, may I, following on from Mr Michel, establish that there is a link between the political debate that is beginning and the new dimension, the new gravity it has acquired as a result of the lessons we have learned from these tragic attacks.
I believe that the candidate countries must be given a place, the best possible place in this convention.
I believe we will have to find a structured link between the citizens' forum with civil society and the activities of the convention.
We are fortunate to have time between now and 2004.
We are also fortunate to be able to work more openly with the four institutions, the four sources of legitimacy, in order to make the future Intergovernmental Conference a success.
So I believe that through that convention, the Ghent Summit, followed by the Laeken Summit, will confirm both our political ambition and our use of more transparent methods.
A Parliament which becomes a vehicle for accusations and a political campaign against another democratically elected parliament is nothing more than a forum for subversion, political racism and the intentional dissemination of inaccurate information.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Mr President, for the whole week we have been unable to hear the original sound out of this system.
In exceptional circumstances, following the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon, the Committee on Citizens' Freedom and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs met this morning and approved, without report, the proposal submitted to us.
In any case, Mrs McNally, I should have asked for the Commission' s opinion on the amendments tabled.
I therefore now give the floor to Commissioner Barnier.
Hence the three amendments I tabled.
Mr Bernié, you requested the floor to tell me whether you are withdrawing the amendments.
To avoid the unnecessary extra costs involved in roll-call votes, we will withdraw our first two amendments and only adhere to the third one, Amendment No 3, which in our view suffices to show the sad state of affairs at present. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Motion for a joint resolution on the conclusions of the UN Conference on racism (Parliament adopted the resolution)EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Miller report (A5-0312/2001) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of drafting European law should concentrate on fundamental issues rather than pointlessly wasting time and energy on details.
This was written by Mr Prodi in a guest column in the 'Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung' on 27 July this year.
The whole thing is actually absurd, but - and here I refer back to the quotation from Romano Prodi - Europe's citizens will rightly ask themselves whether we have nothing more important to occupy us.
de Roo report (A5-0296/2001) Mr President, the report by our Green colleague, Alex de Roo, will no doubt mark a milestone in the European Union's environmental legislation.
More than a quarter of them, one hundred million, believe they are the victims of noise and the economic repercussions of this noise in the environment oscillates at between EUR 10 and 40 billion.
So we can only welcome the pioneering measures set out in this report.
Lastly, identifying these noise nuisances will only be useful and effective if it is accompanied by penal and coercive measures against the noise-makers, be they civil, public or military.
We therefore urged all our parliamentary colleagues to support this report and we welcome the outcome.
Noise pollution reaches us in diffuse, sporadic and intangible ways; often it even forms part of our daily environment.
The impact of aircraft noise differs from one airport to another and it would make more sense to take measures to reduce noise emissions at national, regional and local levels.
Moreover, it seems quite incredible to find no distinction drawn between international and regional airports!
Let me also remind you that the title of the directive is 'Noise evaluation and management'.
Furthermore, the first stage would be to set up a system for evaluating noise levels in the different Member States and to draw exact noise maps region by region.
Only when this information is available should Member States be encouraged to formulate an effective action plan, working together with all the local authorities and elected representatives. . (NL) In densely populated urban areas, the traffic noise and the noise around airports, in particular, is a disaster.
It is now only the need for a majority of 314 votes to break the opposition that threatens to lead to a long-term stalemate. - (FR) I wanted to explain just why I voted for this report as amended.
That company should pay for this in full, including of course the total wages of the workers forced out of work, both at AZF and its subcontractors and in all the local firms that had to shut down. . (EL) The catastrophe in Toulouse, a tragic accident indeed, should give us an incentive to overhaul the Community directive on highly dangerous installations and ensure that it is applied more strictly.
I am delighted that our joint resolution calls on the Commission to publish a table, within the next three months, of all the industrial plants in the EU which are highly dangerous and are located in residential areas and which, were an accident to happen, could cause damage on a scale similar to that caused by the accident in Toulouse.
The real question is to find out whether the provisions of the 1982 and 1986 Seveso directives, which provide for all the necessary procedures and all the danger scenarios, are being observed on such sites in the European Union and to check whether the risk reports are updated on a regular basis.
Evans Robert J.E.
report (A5-0304/2001) I voted in favour of this report, but I am disappointed that some of the most important aspects were rejected.
For certain people in certain sections of society, there is a danger in any country.
In Ireland we have signed a bilateral agreement with Romania and Nigeria and we are planning to sign more such agreements in the future so that we can speed up the procedure of deportation.
The member countries must not accept the Commission's proposals, for they would constrain them to observe a common procedure that would start out flexible, only to become increasingly rigid, as is clearly stated on page 8 of the communication.
That procedure would end up by granting unlimited rights of asylum and, in addition, broaden the concept of 'refugee' set out in the 1951 convention by extending it to other forms of temporary protection.
The Commission would do better to present us with proposals for establishing a policy on the return of applicants whose claim has been rejected.
Even though we are able to endorse by far the majority of the report' s recommendations, we have not been able to vote in favour of the report, partly because quite a few of the proposals are too vague and partly - and especially - because the proposals are based upon asylum and immigration policy' s being defined supranationally by the EU.
In my view, voting for this report means, above all, endorsing the ambitious approach set out by the Tampere European Council, namely not just the statement that 'in the longer term, Community rules should lead to a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those granted asylum valid throughout the Union', but also the commitment of that same Tampere European Council to the 'full and inclusive' interpretation of the Geneva Convention.
In other words, to vote for this report means to support the idea that a common asylum policy must adhere to high standards for the protection of the refugees, include a common definition of the concept of 'refugee' and give a full and inclusive interpretation of the Geneva Convention, taking account of persecution both by state and by non-state agents, as well as the asylum seekers' fear of future persecution.
I therefore believe it is important to draw your attention to the fact that the common, 'full and inclusive' interpretation of the Geneva Convention must include the possibility of granting asylum in cases where the persecution is not carried out by the state.
In other words, the further development of the common policy calls for further harmonisation of procedures throughout the Union.
In my view, voting for this report also means emphasising the fact that the use of concepts such as 'safe third countries', 'safe country of origin', 'accelerated procedures' and 'procedures for manifestly unfounded applications' must only be used where justified and include legally binding guarantees. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) . (EL) The two reports, one on the procedure for granting asylum to refugees and the other on ÅU immigration policy are in fact both an attempt to deal with the same problem.
The furious struggle of the imperialist forces to overturn Socialism, the war which they ignited in the Balkans and the recent tragic example of the war planned against their own Taliban and Bin Laden resulted and will continue to result in millions of unfortunate people hanging about in the countries of the ÅU and elsewhere, looking for a place in the sun.
In this respect, the Evans report on granting asylum contains a number of positive points and proposals.
In Greece, for example, an average of 5% a year are approved and only this year did this rise to 7%.
We shall vote in favour of the Evans report because it proposes improvements to the current system of protection for refugees.
However, despite these reservations, because the text proposes minimum standards for receiving asylum seekers (a minimum level of assistance, such as the provision of full legal aid, at public expense, to each applicant, or justification, by the authority or by the court, of any rejection of a refugee' s application, as well as specific aid for vulnerable persons), we shall be voting in favour.
For example, it recognises the right of third-country nationals legally resident in the European Union to free movement in Europe.
I doubt whether all the people who voted for paragraph 35 could have read it, because it restricts the right of residence, accommodation and education.
Furthermore, another principle: the recognition that every State has the right ... (The President cut the speaker off) . (EL) New rules for the waves of immigrants heading for the European Union, calculating the needs of the countries of entry and procedures for integrating third country nationals into society in the European Union are, without doubt, moves in the right direction.
The Pirker report on Community immigration policy has just been made worse by the adoption of Amendment No 17 which claims voting rights for foreign nationals in local elections.
In particular, the approach involving co-development with the countries of origin will no doubt be of value in the long term, but it does not mean that we do not need to strengthen our border controls now.
On the contrary, we believe that a quota policy should be adopted, with quota levels determined by each Member State on its own behalf, and in our opinion those quotas should be filled, as a matter of priority, by nationals of countries in Eastern Europe, who will soon be members of the Union.
On the subject of the integration of immigrants, the Commission invites us to recognise that integration is a two-way process requiring adaptation by both the immigrants and the society that receives them (page 21).
The strangers who come knocking at our door more often than not come from countries which have completely failed to let their population live decently, or even to feed it.
It is obviously in the immigrants' interest to adjust to our way of life and our values.
It appears that the European Union is only interested in using labour from third countries to meet the needs and shortages of European capitalism, indifferent to the obstacles this may create to those countries' own development by depriving them of vital human resources.
It is, therefore, crucial that we find a new perspective on cooperation and development policy, particularly with third countries, in order to contribute towards greater support for their development and provide their populations with decent standards of living, something which the report, unfortunately, does not touch upon.
It also has to be admitted that, in the eyes of the public, the policies being followed are, on the one hand, inefficient when it comes to combating illegal immigration and, on the other, unjust in the case of proper immigration which is legal and useful to the development of our society.
It has now become vital to make a clear distinction, both in law and in practice, between proper immigration and improper immigration, and finally to define criteria and then stick to them.
While several international and European organisations all emphasise the risk of shortages of qualified workers in Europe, we must learn to adapt, like certain Anglo-Saxon countries, and open up European society to the immigrants that it so badly needs in several sectors, including informatics and new technologies.
Terrorist cells have recently been identified in various Member States of the Union, in particular in France and Belgium, among illegal immigrants.
The fight against illegal immigration must clearly be based on the principle of zero tolerance.
Our borders must be re-established, because proof has finally been given to all signatory parties to the Schengen Agreements that those borders are an essential element in the security of our countries.
Our concern is that the wording of Paragraph 15 is in danger of providing further scope for intolerance and xenophobia.
The first of these departures is the new tone of firmness and rigour demonstrated both by the presidency and even by the Commission.
The events of 11 September have something to do with that.
It is not by chance that the Europe of the Fifteen, the European Union, has emerged from the inquiry into the killings of 11 September as being the privileged location for the organisation, preparation and mounting of the terrorist attacks in the United States.
The second departure is more distressing.
The Laeken Council has the political duty of revitalising the process launched by the Tampere European Council.
As evidenced by the data supplied by EUROSTAT, the citizens believe that the European Union must adopt a common immigration policy.
Evans report (A5-0304/2001) and Pirker report (A5-0305/2001) - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mr Evans' s and Mr Pirker' s reports.
Moreover, the wording leaves several loopholes for those Member States who like the rules to be applied more restrictively, which limits the actual scope of measures which are a step in the right direction.
On the other hand, we voted against the Pirker report on immigration, which justifies a policy of immigration quotas based solely on the interests of the bosses in the countries concerned.
This report tries to provide a legal basis for the activities of traffickers in modern slaves, allowing them to seek the workers that they need in poor countries, and giving them the right to turn people away as soon as there is no longer a demand for them.
Titley report (A5-0309/2001) . (EL) The terrorist attack on the USA gives us an incentive to look at the problem of arms exports in a new light.
It is unacceptable for the European Union to base its code of conduct in arms exports on the criterion of the 'needs of the European defence industry' , because this negates any substantive measures which might be mentioned.
The European Union should move to get the USA, Russia, China and all the other major arms exporters to adopt binding rules of conduct and their unwillingness should not be a reason for the European Union to relax or otherwise fail to act properly.
To introduce a report on codes of conduct on arms exports by, in paragraph 1 d), proclaiming that the EU' s policy on arms exports should 'meet the needs and challenges of the European defence industry' is self-contradictory.
But to leave this objective in the report completely contradicts what we believe to be an ethical policy on arms.
Since the terrorist attacks of 11 September in America, the profit expectations of the arms industry have risen.
The only possible justification for producing weapons is in self-defence against external enemies who aim to take over, suppress us or wipe us out.
I support him in his aims of a worldwide agreement, annual reports on the application of the Code of Conduct and a refusal to allow the supply of weapons to countries that do not provide information to the UN conventional weapons register.
We have therefore voted against this report. - (FR) I am pleased to be able to express my opinion of the GALILEO project at a time when the events of 11 September are forcing us to review our capacity to handle crises.
This technology already exists in the USA (the GPS system) and in Russia (the GLONASS system).
It is currently financed and controlled by the military authorities in those two countries.
The quality and continuity of its use for civilian purposes are dependent on those authorities who may, at any time, discontinue or downgrade the signal.
It is proposed that the system should be developed in four stages, namely a definition phase in 2000, a development and validation phase up to 2005, a deployment phase up to 2007 and an operational phase after that.
Ideally then, the GALILEO system should be operational from 2008 onwards, thereby responding to the wishes expressed at the European Council in Stockholm and to the European Union' s urgent needs in this field.
The European Parliament will have to be consulted on the Commission' s draft.
However, although it is necessary, for the above-mentioned reasons, to vote in favour of the report, thereby allowing the EU to develop a system which the European Council in Stockholm considered was important enough to be launched 'without delay' , we should do so while bearing in mind those areas - highlighted in the report - which may prove to be problematical in future.
In other words, before coming to a final decision, the budgetary authorities of the European Union need to have an accurate understanding of the financing involved, which means that the Commission will have to prepare proposals for the management structures for the GALILEO project. (Speech shortened under Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) Our vote expresses the conviction that it is worthwhile having a European project that functions properly and is independent of military and defence activities, including that of third countries, which is not the case at present, given Europe' s dependence in this context on the United States of America.
Such a navigation system by satellite might have become part of a strategy to make Europe less reliant on the US.
At the moment, it is even threatening to drag us into a war against the third world.
It would be more accurate to talk about the subordination of knowledge, research and public money to the interests of the bosses in a profit-driven economy.
An analysis shows that despite the efforts made by Member States to promote innovation, Europe' s performance is still trailing behind that of its main competitors.
Yet innovation was one of the strategic priorities identified by the European Council in Lisbon in March 2000.
Consequently, the Commission makes several recommendations to Member States with a view to improving their policies on encouraging innovative enterprises and support for innovation throughout the whole of the economic and social fabric.
Madam President, I warmly welcome my colleague Paul Rubig's report which promotes research and innovation and backs a Commission initiative to promote innovation.
European Member States need to collude and pool their separate specialisms and create a system of 'benchmarking'.
Hence the three amendments which I tabled, and which seem to be worrying the rapporteur.
The exhaustion of trade mark rights affects all branded products.
Should yields decrease decisively through parallel imports from third countries, there will also be a decline in motivation to invest in new markets.
Indeed, we cannot disregard the fact that there is a form of political racism currently in existence: the racism indulged in by those who condemn the ideas of others merely because they are the expression of a different political hue.
For these reasons, I voted for the resolution. - (FR) The MPF Members abstained from the vote on the resolution on the Durban Conference as a sign of their very strong disapproval of the highly ambiguous conduct observed in this House by European Union representatives.
The Europeans should have left for the sake of their honour and dignity, which would have sent out a strong and salutary signal to the UN and its General Secretariat and encouraged them to take a firm stance in face of the attempt by Islamism to impose its ideological influence, and genuinely to represent the interests and values of the international community.
Any show of complaisance towards the kind of equations proposed in Durban can indeed be interpreted as a sign of weakness on our part and of encouragement towards those who have set themselves the objective of destroying our values. .
I voted against the resolution in relation to the World Conference against Racism in Durban to make it clear that this conference has done the gravest possible disservice to the promotion of good race relations.
Israel was singled out by countries and organisations which have an appalling record on human rights.
Even worse the language and the tone of the attacks had more in common with 'Der Stürmer' in the Germany of Adolf Hitler.
I hope too that these contacts will help us to continue making progress in our common quest for peace and prosperity for all countries bordering the Mediterranean. (Applause) Growth and Stability Pact - Informal ECOFIN of 22/23 September in Liege The next item is statements by the Council and the Commission on the Growth and Stability Pact, and also on the informal meeting of ECOFIN ministers in Liege on 22 and 23 September.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too have great pleasure in welcoming a delegation from the Moroccan Parliament to the gallery.
I too would therefore like to welcome the delegation which is here with us today. (NL) As far back as the introduction of the single currency, it was decided to bring about reinforced, economic coordination among the then eleven, and now twelve, Member States belonging to the eurozone.
This coordination materialised via the Eurogroup which Belgium is chairing throughout this year and in which finance ministers of the Member States which have adopted the euro are represented, together with the European Commissioner responsible for economic and monetary matters, as well as the President of the European Central Bank.
For the first few years when the single currency came into being - and I am talking about 1999 and 2000 - the bulk of the activities were aimed at the development of, and familiarisation with, this reinforced economic coordination among the Member States taking part in the eurozone.
It is the task of the European Central Bank to adopt an independent monetary policy, the key objective of which is to maintain price stability.
The Eurogroup' s first task in this reinforced, economic coordination, is to outline the mainstays of the eurozone' s economic policy.
In fact, the message which was formulated in Nice last year by the Heads of State and Government is very much along the same lines.
In its conclusions, the European Council is delighted at both the improved operation of the Eurogroup and the reinforced coordination of the economic policy of the Member States in the eurozone.
In addition, the Belgian Presidency is also drafting a reference framework and the working method for the coming years, especially in connection with the coordination of the economic policy of the different Member States.
This budgetary policy must dovetail with the monetary policy of the European Central Bank.
Member States and the other interested parties agree on the long-term objectives and the instruments to be used.
However, as regards the short and medium term, recent economic deterioration has created some confusion.
We must hold such a debate during our presidency.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must keep to the terms of the Growth and Stability Pact.
Member States stated this commitment during the informal meeting of ECOFIN at Liège on 21 and 22 September.
The Extraordinary European Council of 21 September also reaffirmed its commitment to the framework, regulations and full implementation of the Growth and Stability Pact.
The principle is accepted without discussion in a favourable economic climate.
The question that now arises is to establish whether this allowance for cyclical variation can be implemented in a similar way in periods of poor growth or recession.
The Belgian Presidency is convinced that this is indeed possible.
In a less favourable economic climate, the balances already taken into consideration within the framework of the Pact, should also be adjusted in line with changed economic circumstances.
These methods should be used in future stability programmes.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all these issues will doubtless lead to some long but interesting discussions at the next meeting of the euro area.
The Liege Council on 22 and 23 September 2001 focused on the economic impact of the terrorist attacks on the United States.
Secondly, the financing of terrorism.
Thirdly, the problems airlines are experiencing with regard to insurance.
I shall also comment on two other important matters raised at Liege, namely preparations for transition to the euro and issues related to globalisation.
The tragic events in the United States have increased uncertainty and the negative risks for anticipated general growth.
We cannot act as if nothing had happened, but at the same time it is very difficult to produce an accurate estimate of the potential impact of those acts.
We must, of course, monitor economic changes very closely so as to adjust economic policies as necessary, both in the Union and in each of the Member States.
As I stated earlier, the declaration following the informal ECOFIN confirmed the commitment of Member States to the framework, rules and implementation of the Growth and Stability Pact.
The Growth and Stability Pact is a suitable framework for budgetary policy in times when the economy is developing well and in less good times.
It is possible to resort to all the possibilities provided in the pact.
The automatic stabilisers will be more effective if the slowdown is greater than anticipated.
An increase in deficits over and above what can be justified by the operation of the stabilisers would reduce the options open to the Central Bank as regards possible future cuts in rates of interest.
The European Council requested the Commission to submit a study of the likely evolution of the economic situation together with the recommendations it envisages to the forthcoming European Council at Ghent.
I should like to emphasise once again, on behalf of the Commission and in line with the ECOFIN statement at Liege, that we attach great political significance to the swift conclusion of this process.
It gives a clear indication of our political determination to grant no respite to those who attack political coexistence and the freedoms of all citizens.
The ECOFIN Council also agreed general guidelines on government intervention concerning the insurance problems facing airline companies.
The ECOFIN statement invites the Commission to broaden the remit of the ad hoc group set up in the framework of the Transport Council to include insurance problems.
This will enable the Commission to discharge its responsibility of ensuring that such measures are compatible with Community legislation and to ensure consistency between the responses by the various Member States.
The Commission is drafting a report on the impact of the attacks on 11 September on the air transport industry.
The informal ECOFIN also agreed with the Commission' s proposal to establish a common European network to organise exchange of information during the period when notes and coins are to be introduced.
This network will start to operate at the beginning of December in close cooperation with the European Central Bank' s Cash Changeover Committee.
The Commission has followed the public debate on globalisation closely, including the debate on the so-called Tobin levy or tax.
We have taken note of ECOFINs interest in receiving a report on these issues.
This debate focuses on two clearly relevant objectives on which we share the concerns expressed by many of the participants in the debate on globalisation.
It was put forward as a second best solution to put the brakes on short-term speculative movements.
The Commission has already made its point of view clear on a number of occasions.
A tax on monetary transactions is not an effective way of dealing with the problems arising from excessive volatility of financial flows or with inequalities between countries.
A wide-ranging approach to the financing of development is also required.
The Commission is ready to respond to the Council' s invitation to continue working on how best to respond to the key objectives I referred to.
The second was that the Heads of State and of Government must be accorded the right to prescribe annual stability objectives to the European Central Bank.
My group will always speak up in favour of maintaining the independent European Central Bank and the Stability and Growth Pact in their present forms.
We must bear in mind that the attacks of 11 September have not only caused great human suffering.
Before 11 September, the United States was clearly already experiencing a slowdown and Japan was already in a bad way.
However, before 11 September a slowdown was already evident in Europe.
I think that Europe owes it to herself to respond to this threat of a recessionary spiral with a proactive economic policy.
We need a coalition against terrorism, but we also need a coalition against poverty.
Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I wish to say that we believe the Stability and Growth Pact is an essential pillar of economic stability in the euro area and in the Union more widely, and should be respected in letter and spirit.
Moreover, for many of these countries, this is the first slowdown since the first oil shock in 1973 in which the automatic stabilisers have been able to work fully.
So monetary union, the Stability and Growth Pact and fiscal consolidation have given back to Member States a useful policy lever which has been out of the policy box for too long.
I urge us to respect the Stability and Growth Pact and add to its ability to check finance ministers' discipline.
If I understand the declaration made by the presidency correctly, it seems that the presidency supports this idea that the Growth and Stability Pact should allow the European Union to implement a contracyclical policy to promote growth.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dogmatism and apathy dominating the economic policy of the European Union are causing great concern.
This results in a lack of public and private investment.
Madam President, I welcome the opportunity to make a few, but important, points on the Stability and Growth Pact.
There is a role for economic policy coordination, but it must be applied in a sensible and balanced manner in all Member States.
There are, however, serious policy differences between what the Commission is now proposing and what was agreed at the Ecofin Council in Helsinki in 1999, when it was agreed that Member States 'determine their budgetary policies in consistency with the Treaty' , but that this commitment leaves room for domestic policy choices.
Over-regulation stifles initiative and, therefore, progress and prosperity.
The Growth and Stability Pact is dead, Mr Von Wogau; it did not die in New York.
We have to contend with the highest interest rates in the world, a consistently weak euro and the threat of recession.
I would also like to point out in passing that it is unacceptable for the ECB to decide whether or not to issue euro notes and coins before 1 January.
I am quite aware that the European countries - I refer to my own country, Italy, in particular, but also to others such as Germany - rested on their laurels during the economic boom, putting off reforms which were necessary in order to consolidate public finances and make businesses competitive and giving way to pressure from trade unions and employers' associations demanding more State aid.
Thus, they failed to prepare the European economies for the inevitable subsequent slowdown, which will be particularly severe in the wake of the events of 11 September.
On the other hand, budgetary expansion in countries that have suffered the biggest slowdown, like France and Germany, has had three main effects.
Firstly, these countries already have significant budgetary deficits.
The third effect of budgetary expansion is the dispersal of cash people have been hoarding, prior to the introduction of euro notes and coins on 1 January next year.
However, on the other hand, it imposes a single monetary policy on countries which find themselves in very different situations.
In any case, Mr President, given the direction Europe has taken, we will have to endure several more years of problems and tension before governments recognise this essential truth: all countries fare better if each can benefit from an economic policy suited to its individual requirements.
Mr President, representative of the Council, Commissioner, in my view, our economic policy is a combination of success and failure.
I do not think so, but although no one admits it, this was the official policy up to the European Council in Lisbon.
That was where the line was taken to adopt the new economy which is supposed to find a modern solution to Europe's economic problem and bring back full employment on the new basis of more advanced technology, the most advanced technology in the world.
But some things seem to be self-explanatory.
I heard Mr Della Vedova refer in trepidation to 'deficit spending' .
Things may have got out of hand in the era of 'deficit spending' but, let us not forget that, in that era, the rate of growth was 5% and unemployment never exceeded 1 to 1.5%, while our current economic policy, based as it is on a high degree of liberalisation of the markets, is a long way from being such a success.
America came close in the last five years of the last century in a climate of excessive speculation and look where that has got us now.
Mr President, the tragic events in America have sent severe economic shock waves through the world.
No country will remain immune to the economic impact of the horrendous terrorist attacks in America.
We are already seeing the first economic ramifications of 11 September, a day that will be etched on the memory of us all for evermore.
We can now all see the importance of the single European currency and the fact that there are 12 currencies participating within the single European currency regime is lending stability to the European economy.
The terrorist attacks will not affect the timetable for the introduction of euro notes and coins, which will proceed as planned.
It is also clear that the European Central Bank and the various national euro changeover boards have done an excellent job in marketing the new euro economy.
While I have no doubt that there will be some teething problems, we shall overcome them and by the end of the changeover period the citizens of Europe will be fully cognizant of the value of the new euro notes and coins.
What will prove decisive is the quality of the Stability Pact in combination with the necessary reforms in the economy as a whole.
The resolution mentions that the distribution of authority between the Member States and the Union leads to negative action at Member State level.
Time will tell whether this is proportionate to the loss of custom-made solutions for the Member States.
Thirdly, if we relax the budgetary policy enshrined in the Stability Pact we shall prevent interest rates from being lowered, as the Americans are doing.
The European Central Bank may be driven to reduce interest rates, but it must bear in mind that its ultimate aim is to maintain the dogma of price stability to maintain consumer confidence.
Mr President, all possible measures must be taken to ensure that Europe can provide a real answer to the consequences of the horrendous terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, and a part of that, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, has in fact already been done, namely a joint response from the EU finance ministers.
We do in fact have a Stability and Growth Pact that gives us many possibilities, because on the one hand we wish Europe to be a Community of stability, and on the other hand we also want to promote growth and employment.
Just the opposite in fact, I wish to call on the Belgian Presidency and the Commission to contribute to further coordination in this area, by taking advantage of the fact that stability programmes can be updated.
I believe that we are, at last, more or less in agreement with the objectives we wish to achieve, even if there is less agreement on the best means of achieving them.
Mr President, we are living at a time when it is becoming clearer that the Stability Pact functions as an obstacle to development and to economic and social cohesion: by considering monetary and nominal convergence as a priority, by making restrictive budgets mandatory, it prevents those countries with major difficulties from being able to engage in a policy of investment, particularly public investment, in a period such as the present one of slowdown in economic activity and the threat of international recession.
This situation is being felt both in the more developed countries and in those where situations of the greatest inequality prevail and/or where threats of social tension are emerging.
In a European Union that claims to be concerned with social problems, committed to the creation of jobs and the fight against social exclusion and poverty, maintaining monetary stability at any cost cannot continue to be considered as a priority, when we know that the consequences will be more unemployment, more salary restrictions and more poverty.
It is essential to engage in an in-depth revision of the objectives, criteria and foundations of the Stability Pact, starting from the premise that the budgets of the Member States must reflect the needs of each people and each country and not the interests of the financial groups that the European Central Bank is seeking to convey.
Budget balances are a necessary but not sufficient objective, because there will be a growing need to aim at quality in public spending and the medium to long-term sustainability of public finances in the individual euro countries; in this connection, it is sufficient to think of the pension deficit.
Though we need therefore to comply with and value the Stability and Growth Pact, as much attention should also be devoted to the subject of the Lisbon agenda.
Unfortunately, the Stockholm European Council was a step backwards in this respect.
Commissioner, Minister, for the sake of the euro and our Europe, let us avoid similar steps backwards in future.
Within this framework, many people are questioning the validity of the restrictive and fundamentalist way in which the Growth and Stability Pact has been interpreted and the consequences that this interpretation may have on the very process of development and cohesion in Europe.
But I cannot refrain from stating that any true defence of the Growth and Stability Pact requires, first and foremost, an understanding of it.
Controlling and streamlining public spending are worthy objectives.
We are not, therefore, talking about a revision or cancellation of the Stability Pact.
Mr President, stability and growth are objectives of economic activity that everyone wants, whichever party or group in the European Parliament they belong to.
The market economy as an economic concept is fine, but it is unacceptable as a social policy tool.
Or to put it another way, the market can and should regulate the economy, but not society.
We need not only commercial competition, but also a linkage with economic and social criteria, in order to achieve the highest possible level of social security, sustainability and justice.
In times of recession, increasing public expenditure on investment in new capacity and in education and training are essential.
We have the euro area, but we do not have a European economic, fiscal and social policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, the dark clouds of recession are looming in the west, in part due to the piercing of the asset bubble of the US stock market, but further exacerbated by the tragic events of 11 September.
The ECB may respond shortly, but almost two years since the euro's launch, there is as yet little enthusiasm for its future role as the major international reserve currency.
It remains to be seen if the one-size-fits-all model of interest rates will work in all the countries of the Union, in particular countries like Ireland.
Some years ago, the Commission in its McDougal report concluded that central tax-raising powers of at least 7% of GDP would be needed to allow counter-cyclical spending and transfer payments to make a single-currency zone function properly.
This would, of course, have been anathema to Member States, so they decided instead on strict spending, borrowing and inflation limits in Dublin in 1996 as an alternative.
The Stability Pact includes mechanisms designed to operate in recession and Article 2.1 on the excessive deficit procedure could be used in exceptional circumstances to justify higher military or security spending.
But Member States should concentrate on structural reforms, particularly in their labour markets, as the way ahead.
To refuse to see the 15 billion given to the airlines, to refuse to see that, for both political and economic reasons, international movements of funds need to be controlled somewhere along the line if we are to have both economic and political stability, to refuse to see that governments need to stop being petty and to take things in hand.
Mr President, in the spring, the Council took a clear stance in favour of the Stability and Growth Pact.
After 11 September, the Central Bank took action in an admirable manner and has most definitely shielded us from a financial cash crisis.
There are 89 days to go until the euro notes and coins come into circulation, and on top of that challenge we are living in very uncertain times.
For that reason it is particularly important in these uncertain times and with 89 days to go before the euro comes in, to convey a sense of clarity and calm to the markets and also to consumers.
With just three months to go before the euro comes into circulation, as Mr Karas mentioned, we need a sign of stability.
The ECB in particular has reacted very well since 11 September, and the euro has held up.
However, the fact that we were already discussing the Stability and Growth Pact before 11 September meant that we were playing with fire, as Mr Karas put it, and causing uncertainty.
The first is to specify and perfect tools of analysis and control, to ensure that public finances are used consistently and concomitantly in support of selective investment programmes that are strictly targeted and as such useful in an absolute sense - and even more necessary when compensating for the economic downturn.
The second goal, confirming the positive nature of the Stability and Growth Pact, is to adapt and consolidate it so it remains in operation beyond the time when it should have reached its objectives, thus improving the conditions and strengthening the tools for an effective Community economic policy.
I would like to echo that call for both colleagues across the European Parliament and governments across Europe to reach an agreement on this directive as soon as possible.
This has been made all the more crucial by the tragic events of 11 September.
The terrorists were clearly prepared to use all the mechanisms and tools that the global financial system gave them in planning that attack.
Let us turn those tools against them.
Let us enlist the help of those bankers and finance workers in responding to it and preventing a repetition thereof, because this is a concrete step that we can take in the war against terrorism.
Mr President, Commissioner Solbes, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of particular international tension, I believe I can state that the Stability and Growth Pact is like a guarantee of our will to uphold all the restructuring plans and growth programmes that underlie the building of an economically strong, cohesive and genuinely competitive Europe.
Unfortunately, in this respect, we in Italy have had to face a sad legacy from the centre-left.
Mr President, I should like to thank all those who took part in the debate for their comments and contributions.
I shall start by pointing out that our economic situation is different from that of the United States.
The European Union' s point of departure is quite other from the United States' : our balances are not the same either, what has taken place in the United States has not taken place in Europe and, furthermore, our institutional framework is not the same.
The ECOFIN decision on airlines and insurance cover as a result of the political risks involved is a good example of the swift effect of public action.
The debate then moved on to focus on the Growth and Stability Pact.
The Growth and Stability Pact is intended to serve as an instrument to facilitate anticyclical action by the public finances.
Obviously, rather than making us more flexible, this will allow us to apply the pact to a reality different from that which prevailed when the various stability programmes were defined.
It further implies as I said in my first speech, that in the Commission' s interpretation nominal objectives must not be considered set in stone.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the Television without frontiers directive is to establish an EU legal framework to promote the free circulation of audio-visual broadcasting services and to guarantee certain particularly important interests, such as pluralism, cultural diversity, and the protection of consumers and minors.
We have before us today the Commission's report on the application of the directive for the period 1997 to 2000.
The committee noted shortcomings in the report with regard to implementation in the candidate countries and in the analysis of trends in media concentration.
The digital era is now on the way, and the integration of television, PCs and the Internet requires a fundamental revision of the TWF directive so as to create a European legal framework for broadcasting audio-visual material with various degrees of regulation.
The preparations for this review process should take into account the exceptional impact of television and new technology on democracy and society, particularly in the digital era.
The process of gauging public opinion therefore needs to be carried out openly, in a way that takes account of both experts in the audio-visual sector and the views of the public.
The protection of the diverse market in Europe remains crucial.
Mr President, this directive, which was devised in 1989, bears the highly suggestive title 'Television without frontiers' , but one could not really have imagined that it would also be without time limits.
The last five years have, in fact seen a veritable revolution in the television sector; the old TV has now become a supporting actor, a technical tool in the service of digital innovation, the webcasting invasion, the Internet and interactive relationships between user and broadcaster.
The rapporteur, whom I congratulate, and whose amendments and positions I support, reminded us that only twelve Member States have so far implemented the directive.
Mr President, we agree that revision of the Television without frontiers directive is urgently needed.
As an estimate, we could say that at most, the directive only covers some 50% of the problems currently experienced in the sector.
This should feature prominently in the new directive.
Mr President, Commissioner, while I would like, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to thank the rapporteur for this report, I would also like to echo the previous speaker in drawing attention to the future.
Some have said that 'Television without Frontiers' is a loaded title for the directive.
Mr President, there are many who believe that this report does not go far enough in analysing the potential problems facing us as we embark on the revision of the Television without frontiers directive, expected in 2002 as we are all aware.
My personal concern is the role of public service broadcasters in this important agenda.
It is important to recognise that today's public service broadcasting needs to adapt to the changes.
Having established that, we then need to be absolutely certain that there is sufficient scope for national and EU legislation to protect public services and cultural entities.
Europe has to compete in the digital world where consumers and citizens can wander freely and where competition delivers diversity and choice.
Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done and also the Commission on such an appropriate initiative.
Nevertheless, I would like to highlight three aspects which seem to me very important.
The first is the importance of the audiovisual sector in promoting sport.
The second issue is the need to control advertising slots, and I therefore fully support the rapporteur when she backs the Commission' s strategy of carrying out a study on the repercussions of television advertising and TV shopping techniques on minors.
And the third issue I would like to highlight is my total support for the rapporteur' s request that the Member States strengthen dialogue and cooperation on all issues relating to the protection of minors and young people.
We cannot aspire to a world without violence when our future adults spend the day watching increasingly violent animated cartoons, films and news items.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2000 there were 152 households in the European Union with television sets able to receive over 580 different channels.
However, it also makes it clear that we need to embark as quickly as possible on a new review of the TWF directive, if we are to keep pace with the fast-moving developments in the audio-visual sector in a time of increasing digitalisation.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Ruth Hieronymi on her excellent work on this issue.
I agree with the general philosophy of her report and with the proposals it contains.
Mrs Reding has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
This commitment demonstrates that Parliament understands the importance of the Television without frontiers directive and its implementation.
Mr President, I am sure Parliament will have the opportunity to begin a wide-ranging debate on the development of cinema in Europe.
I am sure you know that we have begun three studies on different aspects of the directive on the Audiovisual sector.
Members of Parliament were also invited to these workshops.
I wish to comment on Recital H and Article 1 e).
The directive has a much wider scope.
It applies to broadcasting in general, including subscription and thematic broadcasters, and also to digital and analogue broadcasting.
Your rapporteur underlined this point: why implement an obsolete directive?
Some Members have already, quite rightly, highlighted this point.
I would like to remind you that the report drafted according to Article 26 of the directive deals solely with the implementation of this directive by the Member States of the European Union.
It therefore follows that there are no details on the adoption of the acquis, or of recommendations for these countries.
Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for always having supported me very strongly in my efforts to try to make progress to benefit our cultural industries, and also our cultural diversity.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
On 11 June the Council approved a report assessing the progress achieved by the countries of the region in relation to these conditions for European integration.
The European Union also expressed its hope to see the governments of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Republika Srpska implement all the recommendations that have been made.
I believe I have already given the beginning of an answer to your second question, in that the Council has clearly indicated that, if the situation does not improve, it may consider revising the funds placed at the disposal of the authorities, both in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in the Republika Srpska.
On behalf of the Council, I would remind you that the Union, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Treaty on European Union, respects the national identity of the Member States, while Article 48 of the same Treaty stipulates that the Intergovernmental Conference has the task of establishing by mutual agreement the amendments to be included in the Treaties.
And at that meeting, I have no doubt that the tone will be set for the way in which the preparation of the IGC 2004 will have to be structured and how participation will need to be extended.
I did, I believe, at that point in time answer in a comprehensive manner, partly on behalf of the Council where possible, and partly in my own name.
Allow me therefore to refer you to the Minutes of that sitting in which you will find all the replies to the questions you have just asked.
It is correct that on 31 May 2001, the Council adopted a common position on the Community patent with the aim of furthering future discussions on this subject.
With regard to the language regime used at the European Patent Office, the common position posits that it must be based on a number of principles which apply universally, including the principle of non-discrimination.
Having regard to these guidelines, the Council recently started discussing the provisions presented in the Commission proposal for a regulation on the Community patent, as well as the other solutions which have been provided for consideration by various Member States.
In any case, the honourable Member will understand that the Council is not prepared at this time to adopt a clearer position concerning this motion for a resolution, including the linguistic aspects involved, as long as the European Parliament, consulted in accordance with Article 308 of the Treaty, has not issued a recommendation on the matter.
We all know that Article 308 concerns a unanimous decision taken by the Council following a recommendation from Parliament.
I can understand that, but despite this, we must all realise that there appears to be only a few Member States, including Portugal, Spain, Greece, Finland and Italy, which are strongly opposed to the exclusive use of French, English and German.
That would considerably enhance the legal certainty of the citizens and business people in the European Union.
President-in-Office, European industry is losing its competitive edge in regard to reaching the targets that you and the Council set for it at Lisbon by the extreme cost and time delays involved in obtaining patents in Europe.
The Council Presidency has decided to consult each government individually and confidentially in what is called in French la procédure du confessional, in order to see whether it is possible to proceed, and with the firm desire to reach an agreement by the end of the year if at all possible.
As the author is not present, Question No 4 lapses.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you have not commented because clearly, as you said, the Spanish State has still not made any formal proposal.
I would like to refer to an objective fact: Spain has always had a great maritime vocation and enjoys a privileged situation in terms of both Atlantic and Mediterranean maritime traffic, and I believe that some of those Spanish coastal territories meet all the appropriate conditions for being the location for the headquarters of this European agency.
Thank you very much, Mr Bautista Ojeda.
I would remind Members that this is Question Time and not a time to make statements or advocate certain proposals.
Question No 6 by (H-0699/01): Subject: Illegal immigration into the European Union through Morocco What action is the Council planning to take in order to control illegal immigration into the European Union through Morocco, with a view to preventing any recurrence of the tragic events which have occurred this summer, involving the loss of human life in Community waters?
With a view to drafting these action plans, the group has pursued a cross-pillar approach which takes account of a number of aspects related to foreign policy, economic development and the management of migration flows.
The European Council of Tampere subsequently approved the action plans and expressed the wish that the measures it contains be carried out in the framework of a partnership with the countries involved.
The first topic was socio-economic cooperation and, in particular, assistance for micro- enterprises and for small and medium-sized companies.
Secondly, there was the topic of guidance concerning legal migration to the European Union and the fight against illegal immigration networks, including transit-migration from countries south of the Sahara.
The Association Council which meets on 9 October will exchange ideas on migration and will add renewed momentum to the cooperation efforts in that field.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I thank you for your detailed reply, but I would like to ask a couple of supplementary questions because I put this question before the tragic events of 11 September.
The Council is aware of the current security problems on our continent.
And in this regard, whether the Council is aware that every day hundreds, and every month thousands, of people are losing their lives as a result of maintaining this deceptively open border, because many of those who try to cross it die in the process?
Of course, we are aware of this problem and this is why all these initiatives have been implemented.
I also know from the contacts I made whilst on my trip to Morocco, which was not on behalf of the European Union but in my role as Belgian Minister, that the Moroccan authorities are also acutely aware of this problem.
What does, however, occasionally upset the Moroccan authorities, and this I can understand, is that we sometimes tend to establish a little too easily a link between people from Morocco and security risks.
We are fully aware of the problem in all its aspects and we are working very hard on it and addressing all third parties on the subject.
Question No 7 by (H-0705/01): Subject: Illegal conferral of Greek citizenship and a large number of violations of Community law established by a formal administrative inquiry A formal administrative inquiry held in the Greek Embassy in Moscow has uncovered not only a number of breaches of discipline, but also evidence that offences were committed with the purpose of illegally granting Greek citizenship.
It should be pointed out that all these violations have taken place despite Greece's full participation in the Schengen acquis.
Lastly, the question conjures up a presumed link between these practices and the Schengen Agreements.
We have proof that there are people who have obtained Greek nationality but were not entitled to do so.
Question No 8 by (H-0715/01): Subject: The EU's most federalist country According to press reports, the Belgian Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt, has called Finland Europe' s most federalist country.
The issue of human rights is an important point in the political dialogue with Iran.
Any future trade and cooperation agreement with this country must also include human rights clauses.
During the recent round of political dialogue which took place in Tehran on 3 September, the European Union raised the topic of human rights along with the issues of judicial reforms and democratic rights, including freedom of expression and the press, the death penalty and recent cases involving the stoning of women.
The European Union noted with interest the efforts of the Iranian government and Parliament to introduce new legislation geared towards women and girls.
I am referring, for example, to the draft law designed to raise the legal age of marriage for girls to 15 and to the draft law giving women the right to unconditional divorce.
The Swedish Presidency submitted a draft resolution on behalf of the European Union at this session.
This resolution was adopted on 20 April this year.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your reply, which I believe offers hope in an area in which there are serious difficulties.
I would like to ask the Council whether it would be in favour of carrying out monitoring, even of agreeing a timetable on the progress made in relation to the situation of women in terms of laws, because the Council is aware, like us, that if these improvements are not introduced into laws, they will not be consolidated.
I believe that the main thing as regards the development of the situation is that the political dialogue now seems to be well under way and, moreover, in a serious fashion, and I believe that we must all, each at our own level, endeavour to keep this dialogue going, to broaden it and, above all, to continue and maintain it in order to encourage those among the authorities who are working for progress to continue to make headway in this direction.
Question No 10 by (H-0719/01): Subject: Repatriating Mobotu funds While welcoming the Belgian law allowing individuals to seek the arrest of suspected war criminals visiting Belgium, would the President-in-Office of the Council indicate who had been tried for the crimes committed in the former Congo and will he indicate what measures have been taken to repatriate funds lodged in Belgian and other banks in the name of the former 'President' Mobotu of Zaire and the steps that have been taken in order to confiscate former family assets in Brussels?
The response is as follows : the question that was put by the honourable MEP falls outside of the Council' s competence.
My question also relates to the historical responsibility of the European Union, including the presidency, for colonialism and for the atrocities committed in various states.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 11 and 12 will be taken together.
Question No 11 by (H-0720/01): Subject: Freedom of movement for EU citizens and legality of the Italian government's actions In the wake of the discussions on the incidents which took place before and after the G8 Summit in Genoa, some questions remain as to how the Council characterises and assesses the Italian government's actions from a strictly legal point of view.
Question No 12 by (H-0724/01): Subject: Registration in the SIS Large-scale demonstrations and major clashes between certain groups of demonstrators and the police occurred in connection with the European Council meeting in Gothenburg and the G8 meeting in Genoa.
As regards the first point, this situation does not in fact correspond to what the two Members have referred to in their question as, and I quote, "an abolition of the validity of the Schengen Convention" .
And this article, along with the method of applying this article adopted in 1995 by the governments of those Member States applying the Schengen acquis, is part of the Schengen acquis, incorporated into European Union law.
The Italian authorities felt that public order or national security required that national border checks appropriate to the situation be carried out at internal borders for the duration of the G8 Summit in Genoa, more specifically from 14 to 21 July 2001.
This was admittedly an exceptional measure, but a measure that other Member States have used in the past during political or sporting events or during events which could have involved a threat to public order.
Entry of an alert in the SIS actually falls within the competence of the Member States.
Let me point out that, according to Article 94 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, and I quote: 'The Schengen Information System shall contain only the categories of data which are supplied by each of the Contracting Parties, as required for the purposes laid down in Articles 95 to 100.
Furthermore, Article 104 stipulates that, and I quote: 'Alerts shall be governed by the national law of the Contracting Party issuing the alert unless more stringent conditions are laid down in this Convention' .
Finally, may I remind Mr Sjöstedt that the Schengen acquis was published in Official Gazette L 239 on 22 September 2000.
In the case that I mention in my question, however, involving the 150 young people from Greece who were banned before they even left their ship in the port of Ancona, they did not undergo any checks at all.
That is why I put to you the following question - when the Schengen Agreement is suspended, which legal status is applicable?
I would guess that it is the status laid down generally by the treaty, in other words, free movement with passport control.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 13 and 14 will be taken together.
Question No 13 by (H-0721/01): Subject: Priorities for the UN General Assembly Special Session on Children On 5 July 2001, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the European Union's positions in the UNGA Special Session on Children, which is being held at the end of September.
Also, in the light of the fact that the term 'reproductive health services' has been publicly defined at the UN as including abortion, can the Council explain why the EU delegation at the UN supports 'universally accessible health care and services, including sexual and reproductive health' and how this can be reconciled with the Council's answer of 14 March 2001 in which it states that 'on the specific issue of abortion, the Council recalls that national abortion legislation does not fall under Community competence'.
Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union stipulates that Member States shall coordinate their action in international organisations and at international conferences and that they shall uphold the EU' s common positions.
The EU' s common positions, also on matters which concern the questions put by the honourable Members, are coordinated and agreed upon in the framework of the common foreign and security policy and require unanimity from all EU Member States.
The Special Session on Children has, as a result of the terrorist attacks in the United States, been put on the back-burner.
The presidency will report to the European Parliament on the European Union' s efforts and priorities within the context of regular information on the development of the common foreign and security policy, as enshrined in Article 21 of the Treaty.
However, I can inform you now that the European Union, during preparations of this special session, has expressed the resolve to do everything in its power to bring about a world which really pays attention to children.
It remains the reference instrument par excellence.
The countries that have ratified the Convention - and I am referring to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child - must implement it in full, and those countries that have not yet ratified it, should do so as a matter of urgency.
If you wish to add anything, you have the floor.
I asked specific questions about the concept of family.
I asked the Belgian Presidency specific questions.
Mr Sacrédeus, I have enormous respect for all Members.
I have given you some information on this issue.
It is our responsibility therefore to ensure that the wishes, not just of Parliament but also of the candidate countries who had travelled here and of the Member State representatives who came, concerning the position on the family are accurately presented, otherwise our time has been wasted.
I started my answer by reminding you that the European Union as such is not a member of the United Nations and enjoys no special status in its relations with the United Nations.
Thus the European Parliament resolution is certainly of interest to the different Member States, but cannot possibly - with all due respect - be considered binding on them.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you gave the issue of public health a special mention.
Moreover, the Council, as it stands, has no position on this subject that I could communicate to you on its behalf.
As the author is not present, Question No 15 lapses.
The Council of the European Union would remind you that it has no authority whatsoever to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights.
However, we are all well aware of the relations between the European Parliament and the supreme court of the Council of Europe.
Apart from the rulings on Leyla Zana and the other three Members of Parliament in prison, there is the famous ruling on Titina Loizidou, the Greek Cypriot still waiting for Turkey to pay the compensation awarded to her in a ruling by the supreme court, which Turkey has provocatively said it has no intention of observing.
There is a distinction between the Court of Human Rights and our own Court of Justice in Luxembourg, as you very well know.
As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 17 to 23, 25 and 26 will be replied to in writing.
In my view, it is absurd to have this debate now, when we had the debate on the Stability Pact this afternoon, and in the meantime, the Conference of Presidents thought it would be worthwhile to find time for a debate on television without frontiers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to debate has come at a crucial moment.
On 21 September 2001, the European Council acknowledged the importance of the subjects we discuss and assisted us by requesting, for the first time, that the Commission prepare a recommendation on the economic situation of the euro area following the events of 11 September.
The report that I am commending to Parliament echoes the Commission communication and indicates a number of options, which we believe are essential.
In some ways, this role is more political, in which the Commission must display its ability to make innovative proposals, to develop medium-term prospects.
And the European Parliament must be the public forum for debate on economic policy coordination.
We are clearly in favour of spending a small amount of money so that the indicators can be more effective.
We believe it is essential to go further, to take advantage of everything that could enable peer evaluation, with the option of asking the Commission to carry out an assessment of the impact of measures proposed by a Member State as part of its budgetary, fiscal or structural policy.
Economic policy coordination in the national parliaments must be integrated.
It also means that a national debate must be based on the stability programmes.
This also means that before we discuss the broad economic policy guidelines in the European Parliament, we want to hear the views of our colleagues in the national parliaments.
I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this also means we hope to see the President of the Eurogroup come before the relevant parliamentary committee as often as is necessary.
Mr President, the Commission Communication on public finances is now, some time after its publication, particularly topical.
If Member States join together in a large monetary zone, albeit with coordination of economic policy, but without real political union, they must adhere to their agreements.
Mr President, in my report, it is certainly not my intention to create the impression that public investments should not be allowed, but in the Stability Pact, 60% of the GDP has already been earmarked to meet the needs for public investments.
Tomorrow, I will ask you whether it is possible to table an oral compromise amendment during the vote.
To be frank, we can find no explanation for this systematic negative vote.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Commission document which is the basis of our discussion focused, shall we say, on national budgets.
But when the Committee on Budgets added the Community dimension, the Commission, in particular the Commissioner present, thanked us for it and expressed its appreciation of this widening of the perspective of the Communication.
It is also difficult for we budgeteers in this House to understand why, two days from the first reading of the 2001 budget, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs denies, by rejecting Amendments Nos 5 and 6, the multiplier effect of Community expenditure and the fact that it frequently acts as an example for national, regional and local authorities.
If that is the economic thinking of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the coherent thing for it to do would be to withdraw all the amendments it has presented to the draft budget.
Ladies and gentlemen, 90 days from the physical introduction of the euro, any inkling of fiscal policy in relation to the Community budget is being sidestepped.
From the point of view of the Committee on Budgets, the obvious thing to do would be to gradually strengthen the European budget and go beyond mere - necessary, but mere - coordination of the economic policies of the Member States.
And in the Committee on Budgets we wonder how the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs thinks economic cycles, symmetrical and asymmetrical shocks, should be confronted, each one as it comes or all of them in a coordinated and cooperative fashion, to a certain extent using the Community budget to this end.
We in the Committee on Budgets, which I would remind you approved the opinion unanimously, have the impression that for the majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs ideological prejudices carried more weight than the objective assessment of the economic options available.
He forgot about that majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of this Parliament.
The motion for a resolution is only Post-Keynesian in a chronological sense, but the basis of its thinking is pre-Keynesian.
Kennedy' s advisers, if I may go back that far, illustrated, by means of the so-called budget surplus of full employment, how a balanced budget, even in certain cases of deficit, can create recession.
I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my committee, to take a more open perspective, as contained in our amendments, and to include them tomorrow in the text of the resolution.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Berès, Mrs Peijs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about each of the reports, and also something about the previous speaker's comments of course.
The euro will come into circulation in 89 days, and it is already the second most important currency in the world.
No one can calm down our friends in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats.
It is clear that over the first few months of this year, the slow-down of the American economy has had more influence than was initially expected, and that the terrible terrorist attacks on New York and Washington have further worsened these prospects through needs for economic intervention which are truly new, urgent and no doubt justified.
The strain of the situation, however, should not lead us to justify greater public intervention or, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said very correctly, to abandon or lose sight of the need to continue with the structural reforms which the European economy still needs if it is really going to be competitive on an international level.
I trust that confidence will be recovered in the economic field as soon as possible and that the current special situation will be overcome, and we will shortly find that we have the same requirements that we had three months ago, that is, to consolidate the European economy, to make it more competitive in accordance with the Lisbon criteria, to strengthen coordination and, as we have often said to Commissioner Solbes, to have a genuine economic and monetary approach and policy, as the existence of the euro and monetary union demands.
Mr President, I want to deal particularly with the issue of public expenditure, quality and employment.
One of the things that has made many people within the European Union hostile to the euro is that they have seen its introduction as linked to cuts in public expenditure.
We have also seen in that economy a reduction of job security and longer working hours, with the introduction of a flexible contract culture.
The American model also represents an unsustainable pattern of consumption, which will have an economic impact in the longer term.
I know that it is very difficult to measure the benefits of public expenditure in the same way we look at the balance sheet of a private health care company for example.
We consider that public investments can have a very positive value and can help to shift the direction of our economy, as we recognise our ecological responsibilities.
I shall of course be voting against this report.
Mr President, at the outset I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on the presentation of their reports.
In recent months the global economic climate has been the cause of some concern.
The tragic events that took place in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania on 11 September have undoubtedly further shaken economic confidence.
In Ireland, as in all Member States, we remain committed to maintaining current budgetary levels.
The reaffirmation of this commitment at Liège will allow the EU to better address cyclical fluctuations.
The Irish stability programme is central to the budgetary process in Ireland.
The Irish government contends that its budgetary policy seeks to achieve economic stability by securing the continuation of social partnership and also by taking action to reduce price inflation, including indirect tax reductions.
The grand project requires a high level of cooperation and coordination.
National governments must retain the prerogative to formulate a budget which best addresses the particular and specific economic situation of their country at that time.
Many governments in recent years have relaxed their budgetary efforts, relying mainly on cyclical receipts, such as the proceeds from mobile telecommunications system auctions.
Of course these still need to be extended and refined, but it enables us to demonstrate to the public that the coordination process can lead to positive outcomes.
If you could not say that, who would be interested in checking if all the Member States have actually met the requirements to which they have committed themselves?
I also think that it is a particularly good thing that the European Parliament can call on the national parliaments to take part in the coordination process and I really wish to emphasise that point.
It seems to me that this analysis does not take account of the very important fact that, over the last 30 years, levels of public investment in the European Union have been reduced to 2% of our GDP in 2000, while in the United States they have maintained a sustainable level and represent 3% of their GDP.
If we add to this the fact that our per capita GDP stands at 65% of American GDP, it turns out that their average investment per citizen each year is 2.3 times greater than ours, and this is a more than notable difference which explains the differing developments of our respective economies.
I also refer to the urgent need within the monetary union above all to achieve the greatest transparency and a reciprocal information system on movements of capital, overcoming the restrictions of bank secrecy so as to be able, Mr Karas, to strike at the transfer of resources linked to terrorist funding, the laundering of dirty money from organised crime, and the offence of tax evasion.
I shall close, Mr President, by also mentioning an international cooperation policy which will allow long-term contracts for supplying Europe with raw materials to be drawn up also in euro.
There is no doubt that what has been said this evening is going to help us in our subsequent work.
I will begin by commenting on the Bères report and I would like to express my satisfaction with Parliament' s motion for a resolution which supports the strengthening of economic policy coordination within the euro area.
We must not forget that economic policy coordination is an obligation laid down in the Treaty.
The Treaty makes it very clear that our model is based on a single monetary policy and on national, but coordinated, economic policies.
This is a key element of our model.
I believe that this work, in many respects, goes further than the Commission' s proposal, particularly with regard to one fundamental aspect, the increase in national participation in economic policy coordination.
I would like to highlight two essential elements of the report - and I will comment on the various interventions in relation to them.
The first is the need to strengthen coordination, the second the need to increase the democratic debate and national participation.
The report supports the Commission' s proposals on the production of periodic reports on the economy of the euro area.
It is partly a problem of bringing national statistics into line with new realities, it is partly a problem of money, but, in some cases, it is neither of these problems, but rather the problem of acquiring the data necessary for a good definition of economic policy more quickly.
This would certainly be a key element if we are to be able to act within a time frame similar to that available to other economic authorities.
She makes a reference in her report which I believe to be fundamental in relation to trying to achieve a common vision of the impact of economic cycles on public finances.
And we are working on this, which seems to us essential, precisely to allow these automatic stabilisers to come into play depending on the extent to which the budgetary situation of each of the Member States allow it, but applying the same criteria in all cases.
A further point relating to the first element I mentioned, the content of coordination, is that of prior information.
Until now, it has more or less been considered that we had two processes which did not necessarily converge.
On the one hand, reaching an agreement on the broad guidelines for economic policy in Brussels, in Luxembourg; on the other, defining our national economic and budgetary policies.
It is becoming increasingly clear to us that the two instruments we have, the Stability Pact and the broad guidelines for economic policy, are key elements.
And the broad guidelines for economic policy, if they are actually approved by the ministers as a real commitment to be applied in each of the Member States, must reflect the budgetary policy which each minister wants and must present to their national Parliament.
I believe that this would help us enormously in terms of a better interrelationship between the decisions adopted at Community level and the decisions adopted by national Parliaments.
It is absolutely clear that we have to improve its efficiency on the level of political dialogue, but we believe that we also have to maintain its character of frank and confidential exchange and, in this respect, it is essential to maintain this informal framework for debate and not formalise its process too much by complicating it and making the whole process of debate relating to this point less productive.
Firstly, I fully agree with the idea that, in the context of the introduction of the euro, the credibility of a healthy public finance policy which is compatible with the euro is essential.
It is true that, in our view, public finances - we have said this clearly this evening - must be adequate for both crisis situations and for good economic situations.
But the idea of tax reductions can certainly be included in practice, in all cases, in the criteria contained in the document and which you support.
Finally, a comment on the sustainability of public finances in the long term.
The idea we are working with at the moment - and on the basis of your report, as you know, progress has already been made on some points - is not that reference be made by means of a short paragraph on the stability programmes, but that the stability programmes annually take up the necessary data to carry out an adequate evaluation of the evolution of public finances in relation to problems of ageing.
Nevertheless, in our view, the idea of including this information in the stability programmes is not because we believe they are problems which must be resolved through annual decisions - they need more long-term decisions - but because we felt it was appropriate to introduce new processes for approaching, analysing and monitoring the evolution of public finances.
Our idea is that, every four or five years, in each country, a more in-depth analysis should be carried out - it may be a supplement to the documents from the stability programme - on long-term public finances with the obvious fundamental problem of the ageing of the population and from which, nevertheless, when updating the annual programmes we only take the most necessary basic information.
I would like to end by thanking you all once again for your cooperation and the useful ideas you have offered us, which we will take into account as far as possible.
Mrs Van den Burg, in order to reach a workable compromise, we will agree on Amendment Nos 4 and 5.
Mr Colom i Naval, I would like to make this quite clear: content was not the issue.
If, in your report, you were to write about the effects of the European budgetary policy on employment, then I would gladly vote in favour of all your amendments, but they did not feature in the framework of my report.
I would like to thank you too, Commissioner Solbes.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
The report draws together several important areas of competition policy.
We congratulate the Commissioner on the success of European competition policy, but we recognise that such success can only be maintained by constant and rigorous monitoring.
Our rapporteur has highlighted further measures to which Parliament will be giving its attention in the coming months.
I believe that our initial evaluations suggest that consumers are missing out under the current exemption, with unjustifiable price variations between Member States.
We also await the consultation on Merger Regulation No 4064/89.
We welcome Commissioner Monti's positive approach to consultation with our committee, but we repeat our call for major constitutional change which gives Parliament real codecision power with the Commission.
Commissioner Monti has played the central role in fostering a global approach to competition policy and enforcement issues.
Our committee supports efforts to build an international competition system in the framework of the WTO, whilst recognising that Europe's credibility in this area will depend on efficient and effective cooperation between the EU's own national competition authorities.
I know that Commissioner Monti is aware of this, but we have consistently argued that the Commission must guard against the danger that the reform may lead to inconsistent application or even to a renationalisation of competition policy, thereby destroying the single market.
Our committee has also underlined other competition concerns.
Mr Agag Longo also urges further progress on liberalisation in areas such as energy, transport and the postal services.
We welcome the progress which the Commissioner has made on state aid control.
Our committee will shortly respond in fuller detail to the Commission's ninth state aid survey, but this report also touches on this area.
Finally, on an entirely personal note, I would like to express my concern that the Commission has made particularly slow progress over complaints concerning the Spanish government's treatment of Gibraltar citizens in relation to telecoms matters.
I am bound to say that this hardly seems to me to be an even-handed approach and I hope Commissioner Monti will agree to look into this.
The Agag Longo report rightly mentions this.
The agenda for the Heads of State and Government in Laeken expressly provides for a discussion of the tension between competition and the preservation of existing interests.
If we ask about the difference between our modern, open society and another society marked by classes and castes, the answer is clear: in our open society competition has become the order, the principle on which our culture is based.
General acceptance of the principle of competition is therefore a tremendous cultural achievement.
But the state has never submitted itself to this principle.
It has always sheltered its education system, its banks, its railway, its airlines, its postal service, its telephone networks and its housing associations from the cold wind of competition.
I am perplexed by the fact that a British Member, though talking in place of a Spanish Member, has raised an issue that in no way relates to the rules on competition, that in no way relates to the reports on competition, but which relates to the unacceptable existence of the only territory in the European Union still to be decolonised.
Anyway, leaving that aside, I believe that the discussion of the annual report on competition policy is a good opportunity to consider a debate on the progress and guidelines relating to this important European policy.
If we are to be self-critical, I would like to ask you whether we are really holding this debate or whether we are simply restricting ourselves to voting on a resolution which, if we are going to be honest, is more a cause for pity than for glory.
We therefore have a tendency to issue documents, this document on the annual report on competition, and then go back to considering other issues on which we have already contributed as legislators, although unfortunately competition rules are excluded from the codecision procedure.
I should also like to take the opportunity to emphasise that the fight for free competition is a fight that must be engaged in ceaselessly.
Where this matter is concerned, I therefore wish to call upon the European Parliament and my fellow MEPs here in the House to stand by the Council' s resolution from last year to abolish all direct subsidies for shipbuilding.
I should like to remind you that the problems experienced by a number of carriers are not primarily due to the tragic events of 11 September, but rather to the fact that the airline companies are now facing the harsh realities earlier than expected.
I think it important that we should hold the Commission to its assurance that the new competition rules do not mean a renationalisation of competition policy.
Work in the legislative field has focused on reform of our basic rules and regulations.
New guidelines on vertical restraints have been adopted, in addition to the new 1999 block exemption regulation.
Allow me, Mr President, to highlight the fact that, in relation to State aid and contrary to what paragraph 2 of your motion for a resolution would suggest, the Commission has effectively already instigated proceedings against State aid in the form of tax facilities and, on 11 July, the number of them had risen to 15.
Let me now point out three aspects to which we are devoting special attention, not only in the last annual report but also in our everyday operations.
The first and most important is the impact of competition policy on consumers.
It is certainly necessary to make consumers more aware of the benefits of competition policy and to inform citizens about our activity and the effects it has for them.
On the subject of cars, I accept what Mr Evans said: the Commission is working hard to draw up a proposal for the period subsequent to 30 September 2002, when the regulation for block exemption from the motor vehicle distribution agreement comes to an end.
I intend to present a new draft regulation by the end of the year, and I am sure you will be glad to express your opinion on it, given the extreme interest Parliament has so far shown in this subject.
After Lisbon, Paris and Stockholm, the next will be held under the Belgian Presidency in Antwerp on 11 October, and will focus on competition in the pharmaceutical sector.
A second priority we are working on - one which several people have mentioned this evening - concerns State aid, not only to make control stricter but also to make this subject more transparent through initiatives like the public register and the scoreboard, which is, in fact, readily available on the Internet.
The third priority area of work concerns globalisation: how competition policy, by seeking greater coordination among the various parts of the world, can make its contribution to the governance of globalisation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Many transactions in banking and stockbrokerage are already taking place online.
However, the vast majority of those transactions happen within an EU Member State.
Cross-border e-commerce in financial services is in its infancy and it has not chased prices down to the level of the cheapest Member State.
If harmonising rules is too difficult, at least recognise the right of any company to do business anywhere in the Union once authorised by one Member State.
True, the e-commerce directive allows exceptions still subject to national regulation of incoming services, notably insurance in unit trusts.
As its full implications have sunk in, some Member States have been quietly attempting to restrict the scope of its application and backpedal on its implications.
This is the real significance of the Commission's White Paper on e-commerce and financial services.
We must maintain the liberal thrust of the e-commerce directive.
That means also setting a clear timetable to include both insurance and advertising of unit trusts in the general country-of-origin approach.
The Commission needs to look at these difficulties carefully and attempt to set out a clear road map to allow e-commerce and financial services to flourish.
Mr President, it gives me great pleasure this evening, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, to give our opinion on what is an excellent report.
We would add our voice very strongly to that of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in encouraging the Commission to move down this line.
In conclusion, legislation has to enable contracts to be concluded by means of electronic signatures in financial services transactions.
There are at present two developments running in parallel that are very important for this field.
And on the other hand we are in the process of completing the internal market for financial services in Europe.
But consumers will make e-commerce in financial services a success only if they have confidence in it, if the contractual or non-contractual provisions are in place to safeguard their rights and to give them appropriate help if they have complaints in cross-border business.
We need to make Europe fit for global competition, ensuring that in Europe, too, financial services can be offered in this way.
I therefore believe that this report shows the way and is a good step forwards, as is the Commission's support for it.
Mr President, I too congratulate the rapporteur on the report which he will present to us tomorrow.
Clearly the changing industry of financial services lends itself very well to the new technologies which have emerged and continue to emerge across the world.
My group believes that so long as consumer interests can be asserted and maintained as an essential element of the provisions of this report, then it is obviously going to be willing to withdraw any amendments that might suggest derogations or deletions to the country- of-origin principle.
Mr President, the country-of-origin principle should meet the challenge of offering financial services electronically.
The country-of-origin principle respects national legislation.
That is why, in the report, the rapporteur might have provided more extensive reasoning with regard to the effect the principle has on national policy.
Otherwise, confidence in e-trade will not grow.
That is why the rapporteur might have been more specific in explaining consumer protection at European level.
Mr President, I, too, would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur very warmly on his report.
I am also willing to accept that members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who have a responsibility for financial services in particular, naturally have a slightly different focus than so many members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I think we have found the e-commerce directive to be very well balanced in its conception.
We are now at last getting the Council' s Common Position on the distance marketing of financial services.
We shall all have to put our thinking caps on to find a sensible solution for dealing with the problems that the Member States have also seen.
The Commission takes heart from the broad support for the Commission's objectives in the field of e-commerce and financial services - support evidenced by the report of your Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee.
In particular I welcome the report's rejection of any attempt to roll-back the e-commerce directive in the area of financial services.
That is a position very much shared by the Commission and strongly defended during the negotiations on the distance marketing directive which, as Members may or may not know, resulted in a political agreement at last Thursday's Internal Market Council.
In broad terms, that would involve further convergence in national consumer protection rules, in particular by updating EU legislation which predates the e-commerce directive.
We are now in the process of receiving the first replies from Member States.
I should like to recall that in July the Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation to align the costs of cross-border payments with those made at national level.
This point was also raised by Mr Harbour and I should like to add that the Commission is looking into the possibility of refunds.
Finally, I take note of Parliament's interesting suggestions that the Commission should seek to negotiate mutual recognition agreements with third countries, at least with those third countries that provide similar levels of prudential supervision and investor protection.
In conclusion, I very much welcome the draft report as its stands.
Indeed all speakers this evening have echoed this strong support.
They would shift the balance of this report unfavourably and undermine the strong support which Parliament has shown for the Commission's e-commerce strategy in the past.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The call for certain legislative measures to be speeded up should therefore be addressed primarily to the Council.
I have already mentioned that we have now at last received the common position on the distance marketing of financial services.
Something else that has already been before the Council for a very long time is the two directives on the situation of third country citizens when it comes to providing services - employees on the one hand and self-employed on the other, where the introduction of a service provision card could make a major contribution to achieving freedom in the provision of services.
Article 50 of the EC Treaty will probably also continue to be used in a number of remaining areas.
That is also in line with the Commission' s wishes, since it deliberately wanted to present a document applicable to all sectors.
I am very glad that the European Parliament is now about to take a decision on supporting the Commission' s proposed strategy for creating an internal market for services.
It is also important that the candidate countries should be involved as soon as possible.
What is known as the enlarged internal market for services must also be well prepared.
We must not ignore the continual structural change in the world economies, in particular in developed economies like the European Union.
Therefore, opening up the single market for services is going to be of great importance.
I do not regard the country-of-origin principle as a magic bullet to achieve market integration at a single stroke.
Yet, by operating the country-of-origin principle vigorously and consistently we will actually achieve competition and higher standards for consumers more quickly than by any other means.
I am therefore of the opinion that it is of crucial importance for the internal market strategy to build on the strength of the e-commerce directive and the principle of mutual recognition.
Mutual recognition forms the keystone of the European Union and the European internal market, in particular.
Furthermore, a business based in the Union is guaranteed completely free cross-border trade in services.
I therefore believe that the report, as it has now been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, after inserting, inter alia, a number of amendments which I myself tabled, reflects and supports the Commission' s balanced approach.
In the current economic climate, we cannot afford to lose momentum in the direction of a real internal market.
Mr President, firstly the Commission would like to emphasise the economic and political importance of its communication on a new internal market strategy for services, which I hope, will henceforth enjoy the European Parliament's full support.
A functioning internal market in services, far from being a reality, remains an objective to be achieved.
It is an objective which ought to be considered a priority if we really want the European economy to become the most competitive in the world by the end of this decade - the ambition we set ourselves in March 2000 in Lisbon.
Achieving that goal is rendered all the important by the growing dynamic of the information society, with all its potential for cross-border trade, and by the imminent introduction of the euro, which will increase the transparency of costs and encourage businesses and consumers to look beyond national boundaries for the provision of services.
This new strategy seeks, above all to enable two groups - namely small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers - to reap the full benefits of the internal market.
As far as consumers are concerned, this strategy is designed above all for them.
The strategy is the first attempt to apply, at Community level, a horizontal approach to trade and services since the General Programme for the removal of barriers to services of 1962 was introduced almost forty years ago.
The report by Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has highlighted many of the difficult issues preventing an effective internal market in services from functioning.
I also hope to be able to count on the full support of the European Parliament in implementing both the first and second phases of the strategy.
In the second phase, legal and operational instruments for the elimination of barriers will be put in place and our approach will be based on harmonisation, assuring a high level of consumer protection combined with the principles of country of origin and mutual recognition enshrined in the Treaty.
The Commission feels that the newly tabled amendments would significantly weaken the support of the European Parliament for the proposed internal market approach.
It may also contravene the subsidiarity principle in the Treaty.
On the other hand, it must be admitted that harmonisation may be necessary where there is a need to establish a high level of protection, notably for consumers.
Mutual recognition, on the other hand, can be made to work more satisfactorily if it is implemented through secondary Community legislation which clearly identifies the areas in which mutual recognition must be accepted.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This may become the first positive example of self-regulation in the European Union.
A few points are still outstanding here.
It is already foreseeable that some Member States that were very keen on producing a standard form, especially at the outset, will want to go their own way and may take a different route in future.
The effective annual interest rate in particular is highly important for the consumer.
And finally, as the Huhne report recommends, future legislation should be harmonised with the legal terms used in this code.
We hope the Commission will before long present the Committee with a report on how successful the code has been and whether we can continue along that road or whether we must introduce legislation.
The importance of the work that has been done lies essentially in the fact that for the first time a collection of indications and regulations is not the result of self-regulation, as has often happened in the past.
Also important is the choice of transparency and publicity laid down in Articles 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the Code itself, and especially Article 25, which states that an offer made over the Internet should be made in accordance with the European scheme and in compliance with all the provisions and indications that are laid down.
I hope that in future this aspect can be reconsidered.
Completing the internal market for financial services and affording consumers a high level of protection is a Community priority.
We must therefore welcome the fact that a voluntary agreement has been reached at European level between banking and consumer associations on the duty to provide precontractual information.
That is one of the most important consumer policy concerns in this sector.
I hope that this example of a voluntary agreement between market participants and consumer associations will prove successful so that it can be extended to other areas of financial services.
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that the Commission is in a very comfortable position because it agrees entirely with the content of the resolution adopted almost unanimously on 28 August of this year by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The voluntary code of conduct which underpins the Commission's recommendation is the very first example of an agreement reached between banking and consumer associations on the standardisation of information which must be made available to consumers before a contract is concluded.
But however well placed they might be, market participants need a neutral and indefatigable broker to accompany, and sometimes remotivate them, during the long and difficult negotiations of this code.
As agreed between and called for by all parties, the broker, that is, the Commission, will now transform itself into a notary and, if need be, into a referee.
During the negotiation phase the lack of appropriate transparency was deplored in the report.
The Commission made it clear in its recommendation that it will consider presenting binding legislation should the terms of its recommendation not be fully complied with.
I am convinced that the code and our related recommendation will play a very significant role in the completion of the internal market for financial services to which Parliament regularly reiterates its support.
Thank you very much, Mr Bolkestein, for your dedication to Parliament this evening.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
