Combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography (debate) The next item is report by Mrs Angelilli, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Members for their excellent collaboration, which has enabled us, in my opinion, to draft a highly satisfactory text.
Secondly, grooming, that is to say online psychological manipulation with the aim of soliciting children for sexual purposes, should be considered a criminal offence in all Member States.
We therefore need to roll it out across all 27 Member States.
I would like to highlight one further aspect: in general, national legislative authorities must commit to improving protection for child victims during investigations and before and after any court case in which children are involved.
To conclude, Mr President, I believe it is important to ask all Member States to ratify as soon as possible the most recent Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank Mrs Angelilli warmly for her remarkable report.
Children are vulnerable and they are entitled to protection in order to ensure their harmonious development.
Some sources say that between 10 and 20% of children in Europe have suffered one form of sexual attack or another during their childhood.
The framework decision of 2004 establishes a minimum level of harmonisation for national legislations in respect of criminalisation and jurisdiction.
I must say that I am not satisfied either.
Once again, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its determined commitment.
I also thank Mrs Angelilli, who has unquestionably given us a high quality report.
It is important for us to make definite progress in this area.
It is almost incredible that eight ratifications are still missing in the case of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography; four in the case of the Palermo Protocol, which is the basic document for international cooperation in combating trafficking in human beings.
Mr President, Commissioner Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Angelilli and everyone else for their very constructive cooperation.
The first proposal is that a child should be classed as such until he or she is 18 years old.
It is very important to be able to protect both young girls and young boys against sexual crimes, sexual abuse and sexual exploitation throughout the EU.
The second proposal is to protect children against child sex tourism by all Member States criminalising sexual crimes both within and outside the EU.
With this report we can now sit back and be satisfied that, here in Parliament, we have taken the first step in respect of the rights of children, and when we get a new Treaty of Lisbon, children's rights will also be a legal basis and a goal within the EU, and this is not before time.
Protecting children while they are using the Internet and combating child pornography are two of the most urgent issues which we have to deal with.
For me, it is very important to ensure that this Framework Decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography offers a higher level of protection.
The data protection authorities in the Member States can act as important intermediaries in this respect.
It should be emphasised that children who use new technologies, and especially the Internet, are at risk of contact with potential perpetrators of sexual offences.
It is our obligation to give the best possible protection to our children.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I should like to thank Ms Angelilli for this report.
I would echo what has been said by our colleague, Ms Bauer, in terms of our own Member States taking action to sign and ratify some of the conventions and protocols which are missing at the moment.
We need those clear measures to support children who have been victims - whether through court proceedings, where obviously the key issue is to find the truth but not in a way that leaves children more traumatised than they were at the beginning of the process, or through the collective work on identifying children.
However, the protection also has to involve the children themselves.
We intend to support certain of the amendments this morning, particularly where we think there are certain principles which we tamper with at our peril - such as on double criminality and confidentiality in certain professions - and one or two others where we think the concept perhaps needs further definition.
Moreover, I would like to argue in favour of strengthening cooperation with Europol and Eurojust.
It is an outrage that there are thousands of people who have been charged with child pornography offences and have spent not so much as a single day in prison.
All Member States must therefore be vigilant, special legislation must be introduced, and this outrage, this horrible threat to society, must be addressed with special and extremely severe laws. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this House is debating a topic today which rightfully outrages all people of good will.
We must be particularly vigilant regarding the constant challenge posed by the use of new online technologies - web cams, mobile phones and, in particular, the use of the Internet - in this regard.
Thank you very much. (ES) Mr President, sexual exploitation is a reality endured by boys and girls all over the world, since there is a supply of child sexual exploitation, particularly in poor countries, and a demand for Internet pornography and sex tourism on the part of rich countries.
Mrs Angelilli's excellent report, on which I warmly congratulate her, and the specific recommendations that Parliament will make to the Commission, indicate and suggest measures that can genuinely curb the spread of child pornography, online grooming of children, sex tourism and all forms of child abuse.
According to an estimate by the International Labour Organisation, more than 12 million people are victims of forced labour, of whom more than 1 million are involved in sexual exploitation and between 45% and 50% are children. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in general is prompted by the clear development of new telecommunication technologies.
Forms of online grooming of children have certainly increased, but I would like to take this opportunity to denounce the exploitation of images of women also.
The Council of Europe Convention signed by 20 Member States of the European Union is the first international legal act qualifying the various forms of sexual exploitation of children as a criminal offence.
Given that the new technologies and, in particular, the constant development of the Internet and the new online methods used by paedophiles, it is of paramount importance that the level of child protection be increased.
According to Eurobarometer, 74% of underage children use the Internet on a daily basis, and hence many of them are exposed to violent or pornographic elements.
Although legislation in many European Union countries is sufficiently stringent, there are still many measures which need to be taken to guarantee children adequate protection.
All Member States should ratify the Council of Europe Convention and implement in full the framework decision in order to establish a united approach at European Union level.
Perpetrators of sexual abuse should be denied the opportunity to pursue professional activities which involve contact with children.
Finally, I believe that the European Commission and Member States should provide financial and logistical support for the campaigns aimed at parents and children. (PL) Mr President, I am very pleased that Parliament has taken up the question of combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography seriously.
This concerns every aspect of life. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is undoubtedly an important issue requiring effective cooperation by all Member States.
Sex exploitation of children is a crime against the most vulnerable in our society and I am, therefore, shocked that seven of our Member States in the European Union have still not signed the Council of Europe Convention; nor, indeed, have eight of these states ratified the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography.
The fact is that the Internet now provides new routes for these crimes, and I therefore think it is incumbent on us to urge that the acts of using the Internet for child pornography and for grooming children be made a criminal offence.
We need to promote public awareness and online safety, especially among children, but also among parents so that they know exactly what is going on and what can be done on the Internet.
I think Member States should work together to introduce a network of contact points for the public to reach in order to report illegal and harmful content and conduct.
It is essential that all Member States criminalise all types of sexual abuse of children and that all European citizens who commit a sex crime against children in any country within or outside the European Union be subject to uniform extraterritorial criminal legislation applicable throughout the Union.
It is regrettable that some Member States have yet to sign this Convention.
I am aware of the complexity and difficulty of this struggle, but I believe that it is possible to confront the sexual exploitation of children with unified action and a joint effort.
The emphasis should be given to prevention, by promoting campaigns to make parents and children aware of the risks of child pornography, specifically on the Internet and, in particular, the risk of sexual exploitation in online chat rooms and forums. (PL) Mr President, it was the poet Zbigniew Herbert who said, 'We must learn to say 'no' (...) 'no' is a very significant part of speech.
I therefore thank Mrs Angelilli for her report.
These measures must include the whole world, because in some countries there are organisations which question the penalising of sexual contact with children.
I refer to the phenomenon of trafficking in abandoned infants which we have seen emerging on the Internet and, when I say Internet, I mean not just the World Wide Web and the chatrooms which children enter from their bedrooms, but also the numerous other means, including mobiles, which children can use, which is why we need to make provision for all the parameters.
Perhaps our children are more proficient in using the new technologies.
Our focus on the Internet is obviously very important, but it suggests that this problem is a new one, when we clearly know that it is a very old problem and was very well hidden.
It happened not just outside schools with bags of sweets, but it happened in homes, in all of our Member States, in churches and in hospitals.
The Internet has perhaps shone a light on this very dark part of society which we are still grappling with, and grappling very badly with.
It is very urgent that Member States take seriously their many fine words about protecting children, just as we in this House have spoken very much about how we value and protect children, whereas in fact, our actions are often much weaker than the strong words we speak.
The Internet is increasingly being used by potential and actual sex offenders as a medium for the sexual abuse of children, in particular, through grooming and child pornography.
While I accept that Irish criminal law protecting children against sexual abuse and exploitation is quite comprehensive, I would, nevertheless, urge the Irish Government to bring forward up-to-date legislation as soon as possible to deal with the proliferation of new ways by which children can be subject to sexual abuse. (BG) Mrs Angelilli's report is very timely and important.
We live in a world where the risks for children and adolescents are continuously growing.
Judicial and punitive measures are very important, such as the criminalisation of sexual exploitation, especially legislation on Internet technology used against children's best interests.
One measure I suggest should be considered is the establishment of a pan-European - or even better, international - public list of offenders convicted of sexual offences against children.
A sexual offence against a child causes permanent damage to the victim and should also result in permanent labelling of the perpetrator.
This will be an additional measure of punishment, but will also act as a prevention measure. (PL) Madam President, 20 Member States have signed the Council of Europe Convention, the first international legal document which classifies the sexual exploitation of children as a crime.
I thank Mrs Angelilli for a very important and well prepared report. (SK) I agree with this draft recommendation of the European Parliament to the Council.
Child protection must always be a priority issue in all countries of the European Union as children are the most vulnerable group of society.
Sexual abuse of children and child pornography is contrary to the world code of children's rights adopted by the UN and, at the same time, it contravenes fundamental human rights. (RO) Sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are very serious crimes which are on the increase, but which can be combated through legislation, including awareness campaigns.
A Europe-wide database of paedophiles must be set up as soon as possible to prevent these people from being employed in education or child services in other Member States.
I would also like to point out that Member States need to finance the development and expansion of programmes which will help parents to protect their children from Internet grooming.
Madam President, I believe this debate has shown the European Parliament's unanimous commitment to the protection of children.
I have also had questions on extraterritoriality.
Several EU countries have such platforms, but now there is a need at Community level to ensure that everyone can be familiar with all this information.
In this matter, the European Union can offer added value, provided that we can succeed in creating this platform around Europol.
I would also say that we have a further tool in which I have a lot of faith, in other words, the informal public-private group created by the Commission, which has introduced a European financial coalition against commercial child pornography images.
In the face of a quadrupling in the number of sites between 2003 and 2007, we have to involve the private sector, as it controls a large part of the IT infrastructures.
It really is important for Parliament to encourage the Member States, as it did in its declaration of 2 September 2008, to arm themselves with warning systems and to conclude cooperation agreements to achieve cross-border trigger mechanisms.
I would again like to thank the European Parliament for its support in the struggle to protect children.
We cannot help but be concerned by the gap that exists between generations in terms of Internet usage and, by extension, in terms of controlling children's access to websites posing a high level of risk.
From the point of view of European cooperation, it is regrettable that the ratification process of the Council of Europe's 2007 Convention has been so slow.
It is disturbing that some Member States have not implemented all relevant international conventions for the protection of children.
To fight child pornography, the EU should enforce tough legislation, but also undertake educational projects that inform people about this subject.
Children need our care and protection as legislators.
It is very important that seven Member States and neighbouring countries sign the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse.
It is our duty to protect children from a world that may destroy them.
The 2008 Eurobarometer study shows that a large percentage of parents do not pay attention to what their children are doing on the Internet.
I, for instance, represent a country where Internet use is among the highest in the EU, but parents' disregard is also among the highest in the EU.
Namely, 60% of them are not concerned that their children might fall victim to harassment; 47% are not concerned that their children see pornography or violent material; 62% are not concerned that their children may divulge personal data.
