Unfortunately, the Council did not support a Commission initiative for the European Social Fund to provide 100% of the funding during the crisis (2009 and 2010) for a series of activities to support workers and active policies in the labour market.
If you will allow me to give you a positive example, I will tell you about Poland, which is the only country in the European Union that is continuing to maintain positive growth and has not had negative growth at any time throughout the crisis.
We will not be able to guarantee this until the corresponding convergence report is published in the spring, but it is possible that Estonia will be in the euro area in 2011.
It is true that the consequences of a crisis such as the one that we are going through are, for the citizens of those countries, infinitely more painful than the consequences for citizens of countries with social protection systems and with much more established, stronger and more consolidated welfare systems.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (LV) Mr President, Mr Almunia, in order to help the economies of the Member States in Central and Eastern Europe to recover, there are two possible approaches: giving fish or giving a fishing-rod.
It may happen that in this crisis situation, some Member States do themselves harm; for instance, by rapidly reducing budget expenditure, they increase unemployment over the level that their economies can withstand.
It may also happen that one Member State, in joining the euro area, may damage the economy of a neighbouring state outside the euro area, by attracting investment to itself and increasing the level of unemployment in the neighbouring state.
There accordingly need to be monetary policy interventions, starting with those of the European Central Bank, since unless we help increase their GDP and invest in their production systems, they will not be able to redress the imbalances that are currently weighing them down, satisfy the Maastricht criteria and join the euro area.
This monetary iron curtain separates those outside the euro area from those within it.
They should not be changed because, as you rightly said, the euro area has acted as a defence against the economic and financial crisis.
All the same, we must help these countries in a different way, not by changing the conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact, but by offsetting the negative effect that they are suffering because they are outside the system.
I have mentioned just two of the six very practical ideas that we have put forward and on which a decision can be taken by the European Central Bank or by the Commission or the European Investment Bank.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you, Mr Verhofstadt, for tabling the question.
In late 2008, in tense talks between the Latvian Government, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the Swedish Government, a decision was taken to buy up the second largest commercial bank, using only Latvian taxpayers' money, and to keep the national exchange rate strong.
By not allowing a default and by retaining a strong exchange rate, we devalued our economy by 20% of GDP, but in reality, we were helping the neighbouring Estonians, whose advantage, of course, was having had a responsible budget balance for many years, to introduce the euro as early as 2011.
It is not that we are not pleased for the Estonians, but our sacrifice, in buying the bank, was a certain measure of solidarity in not foisting off misfortune upon our neighbours and aggressive investors, too.
The European Union's neoliberal social security policy must be changed.
The economic and financial crisis has had a much harsher effect on the transforming countries of Central and Eastern Europe than on the stable democracies of Western Europe.
It is therefore right to look for ways to counter this unfavourable economic development.
We must not forget, however that miracles happen only in fairy tales.
If such assistance is to be effective, its financial resources must not be spent on social benefits or consumption, nor must they be spent on artificially-created nonsensical jobs.
This means that priority is given to support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe as well, as they actually provide the majority of jobs.
Today, we discussed the matter of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development when dealing with the modification to the European Commission's 2009 Finance Bill.
This is why I feel obliged to say now, with proper justification, that this region should receive more support, as this is a matter of obtaining partial compensation. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has demonstrated that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe outside the euro area are much more vulnerable than those where the single currency is used.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to the fact that many people like to treat Central and Eastern European countries en masse, even though these countries are very diverse, with different crisis exit strategies as well.
At the moment, it is forced to exercise restraint, which is in stark contrast to the practical actions adopted in other European countries for managing the crisis, based on economic recovery.
The banks in Central and Eastern Europe which have turned out to be healthy have not received any injection of capital from anyone.
The argument that only the new Member States of the European Union have been especially severely affected by the crisis is not true.
Similarly, fiscal problems are bigger in the euro area than outside it.
The Commissioner mentioned Estonia.
What is worse, the differences between the individual countries of our region are greater than those in the 'old' EU.
So I would commend the people of Central and Eastern Europe to reject this fatal prescription of the European Union establishment, nationalise their banks, put them under democratic control so that they invest for people and for jobs, nationalise or renationalise the major sectors of the economy, but this time under the control of working people so that they can plan their economy for people and not have themselves at the mercy of the sharks, of corporate Europe and financial Europe, which has brought about this dreadful disaster for the peoples of this region.
You may laugh, Commissioner, but I await your response. (EL) Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor and my thanks also to Commissioner Almunia for the very detailed report which he submitted to Parliament.
I also wish to call for the solidarity to be shown which my country, Greece, needs in order to deal with its problems. (BG) Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the sensible policy for combating the crisis in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe must be based on the principle of a social market economy, unlike the suggestions made by the previous speaker.
Secondly, we must support small and medium-sized enterprises.
The reason for this is not only that they provide more than 65% of employment in Europe, but also that they offer the most flexibility and dynamic growth potential, especially during a crisis.
All in all, I firmly believe that, in order to achieve economic recovery in the countries of the European Union and Central and Eastern Europe, we must join forces and tackle a threefold objective involving employment, financial balance and economic growth.
In no other European country apart from the three Baltic States has there been a drop in economic output of more than 10%.
I very much hope that Estonia will join the euro area on 1 January 2011, in order to create an area for economic growth and for the resolution of financial difficulties. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently in the middle of a financial and economic crisis and I believe that liquidity is the most important factor in a crisis, not only for banks and businesses, but in particular for employees.
This levy could be used to refinance the banks and national budgets and could therefore form the basis for creating new jobs.
Cohesion has to be effective. (RO) Thanks to the successful implementation of the European Economic Recovery Plan, we will notice a slight improvement next year, in 2010, for the European Union's Member States.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have been affected in different ways by the economic crisis.
However, the Swiss Government decided to grant us a non-refundable loan amounting to approximately EUR 120 million.
We also need to give them the financial resources to do so.
As a result, economic, social and territorial cohesion policies must be targeted primarily at allocating European cohesion funds for this type of economy.
I would like to add that the EU's economic, social and territorial cohesion policy has been neglected recently in terms of defining the European Union's priorities. (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) While listening to Mrs Băsescu, I cannot help but declare: 'O, les pauvres!
The disparities are growing between these countries and the rich countries of Western Europe.
Also, with regard to the countries that have adopted the euro without being members of the European Union, is this an advantage or a disadvantage for them in the negotiations for taking on the responsibilities of the euro area in the future? (HU) Mr President, influenza strikes down those who have a weak constitution.
The reason is that, in a large number of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the economy, media and politics are still in the hands today of those who systematically ruined this region over the last 40 years.
These are the various exchange rate mechanisms and many other things.
The problem is therefore not an iron curtain, which has not existed for twenty years, and it is not that the instruments available to the European Union are not being used in that region, because they are being used as I said in my initial speech.
Parliament is also asking the Commission to do so, and what I am asking Parliament is to ask the Council to do so, because the Commission's proposal for the actions of the European Social Fund in 2009 and 2010 to be 100% funded by European resources in those countries that benefit from the European Social Fund has not been accepted by the Council.
In December 2009, it must be said that there are positive signs, that we are beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel, including in the countries that are suffering the most as a result of this crisis, such as Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Ireland.
Firstly, in the light of our experience of this crisis, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe need a much more balanced model for growth.
Written statements (Rule 149) At a time when the global economic crisis is continuing to affect Europe, the states of Central and Eastern Europe are feeling its effects more intensely due to the existing disparities in economic development between the old Member States and those which have joined during the last accession rounds.
It must be a plan which supports the efforts made by these states to maintain an economic and social balance.
For this reason, I call for these resources to be made available more quickly and for a plan to be adopted which will support the economies in this region.
Romania and Bulgaria are feeling the full impact of the global economic recession which has hit the last two countries to join the European Union, against the background of a disparity with the developed economies of the other Member States.
The latest Eurobarometer survey highlights that the populations of both countries state that they are very greatly concerned about their countries' economic path of development, as well as about the way in which the crisis is affecting every citizen personally.
All of the European Union's Member States are being affected by the different aspects of the crisis.
However, it is evident that the new Member States are going through more difficult times than the well-tuned economies of the old Member States.
If we look at the specific support sums, we can see that the support package neglects Central and Eastern Europe, the very region which is most vulnerable in terms of energy supply.
The knowledge that the EU provides measures for those most in need reaffirms and ensures that we will all come out of this economic crisis stronger than before.
If the crisis can reduce 11 million inhabitants of Eastern Europe and Central Asia to poverty, with a further 23 million set to follow suit by the end of 2010, under no circumstances can we be complacent.
European and international financial institutions should establish a special credit line for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the support of infrastructure projects.
in writing. - (HU) The global economic crisis has had a varying effect on the European Union's different Member States.
The new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe have proven to be the most vulnerable.
The reality of the situation has shown that Member States have had unequal access to the instruments contained in the European Economic Recovery Plan.
We have also noticed that Member States in the euro area have enjoyed the best protection against the crisis.
What we need is an economic recovery plan that is, in actual fact, equally accessible to all Member States.
