Gaubert, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State - C6-0470/2007 -.
As you know, the report has been produced in close cooperation between the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the European Parliament, as part of the process for increasing collaboration.
However, as a Member of the European Parliament, I would like to emphasise once again that it would have been better if the agreement at the level of the ambassadors had taken place after the deliberations in the European Parliament.
To come to the point, we are in competition with countries throughout the world for highly qualified workers.
The report by Ewa Klamt, which was agreed on by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, contains the main criteria for the admission of highly qualified workers from third countries.
The scope of the directive includes, on the one hand, people who have a higher education qualification and, on the other, people who have comparable professional experience covering a period of at least five years.
The Commission had initially proposed three years' professional experience.
The Council has chosen a factor of 1.5.
However, we must also be honest with ourselves.
Tomorrow's vote is also important for us because we have introduced a special amendment which emphasises Community preference.
Faced with these situations, the European Union has made a clear choice: to promote a common immigration policy encouraging legal, economic immigration, managed efficiently in line with national market requirements.
Therefore, we are debating today two far-reaching, pragmatic legislative texts, which are meant to meet the labour requirements clearly defined by our Member States.
Secondly, the draft directive will ensure equal treatment for all third-country nationals in a certain number of areas.
The interests of immigrants must be taken into account and their rights must be protected.
I would also like to thank the Council and the French Presidency for the exceptional and fairly swift efforts made to pave the way for the rapid adoption of these two perfectly complementary texts.
Almost four years ago, in January 2005, the European Commission announced an important debate on the prospects of a proactive European policy on economic migration.
Economic migrations have become the first pillar of the common immigration policy, that Member States have chosen to adopt by approving the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum at the European Council of 16 October.
The first, the Blue Card, allows access throughout Europe to highly qualified workers and will guarantee a set of rights and administrative facilities.
I, too, would like to pay tribute to the work carried out by the rapporteurs on these two proposals.
Their work has opened the way for very active cooperation - and I am delighted to emphasise this - between the Council and the European Parliament throughout the work.
It is also a message about the responsiveness of European integration, with this symbol that the European Blue Card will become, offering real mobility within Europe for highly qualified third-country nationals and members of their families, in accordance with the powers of each Member State, for the Member States will, of course, retain control of their labour markets.
Above all, this text creates a common set of rights for all third-country workers who work and reside legally in the European Union.
The proposal will be examined for the first time by the ministers during the 'Justice and Home Affairs' Council session on 27 and 28 November.
Quite clearly, a strong signal from the European Parliament regarding the appropriateness and added value of this text will enhance the movement that is starting to take shape and which can pave the way for the final adoption of this directive which, clearly, simplifies migrants' lives.
The two proposed directives are the first in a series announced by the Commission in 2005 in its action plan on legal migration.
They are important not just for the migrants themselves but also for our Member States and their companies.
I am pleased that the broad outlines of the Commission's original proposal have been confirmed, especially in relation to the single procedure, the single permit for citizens of third countries admitted as workers, and the common set of rights for all, for all migrants working legally, whatever the initial reason for their stay.
The aim of the European Blue Card is to make the Union more attractive, to increase its ability to attract highly qualified workers from third countries, so that legal immigration can help to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy, as a complement to the Lisbon Strategy.
The report set before your House supports the Commission on the need and urgency of introducing this common system in Europe.
Firstly, the Commission is certainly favourable to the amendments which make the system more attractive, for example, those aimed at removing any restriction on equality of treatment and access to the labour market after two years as a holder of a Blue Card.
The shortage of those specialists, perhaps, will have to be filled by volunteers from our countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, the Directive on the admission of skilled third-country nationals to the EU is the first valuable step towards a common European Union immigration policy.
It is the first serious attempt to restrict illegal immigration and promote legal immigration in Europe.
From the point of view of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which I represent today, it was important to ensure that workers from outside the European Union are not treated less well than our own citizens.
In conclusion, may I thank the shadow rapporteurs for their assistance and inform the French Presidency that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs worked fast to assist it in the achievement of its goals before the end of its term of office.
The purpose of this directive is to act as a horizontal tool, bearing in mind that particular directives are already in effect or are to be adopted.
This directive provides a minimum, general selection of rights to third-country workers in relation to work.
This has put us in a situation where there are blatant discrepancies such as with the 'EU Blue Card' as well as with that guaranteed under other particular directives, including the Directive concerning third-country nationals who are long-term residents of the EU.
We can see that these two directives can introduce an effective compromise system in place of today's fragmented regulations.
The rapporteurs for the European People's Party have done serious and important work in this regard.
The report on the employment of highly qualified workers, which has come to be known as the 'Blue Card' report, is a good, balanced report.
This approach is particularly unacceptable and reflective of hypocrisy when we, as nationals of the new Member States are still - to this day and for who knows how much longer - discriminated against in numerous old Member States when it comes to access to the labour market.
The common set of rights and the single residence and work permit for legal migrants must be extended to the highest possible number of workers.
Commissioner, we therefore expect the Commission to shortly present its proposals on other labour categories.
In 2007, nearly 300 000 highly qualified Europeans left to work outside the Union.
For a while now, the EU has been trying to come up with a comprehensive package on migration, including measures to tackle illegal migration as well as measures to push Europe's forward-looking strategy on legal migration.
However, we feel that the current text does not bring about the much-needed change for legal migration but that it confirms Member States' protectionist practices instead.
We all know that the Council has been excellent in making ambitious statements, but we also know that, too often, effective decision making is constrained by the inability of the Member States to really work together in their mutual interest, and that effective decision making in this field is being undermined by a very emotional and muddled debate on legal migration, owing to a lack of focus.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive approach on these partial - but very long-awaited - more positive measures on migration and the position of third-country nationals within the European Union.
The starting point for my group, the Greens, has been to have rights which are as equivalent as possible to those of EU nationals - a common set of rights - and for the system to be as open and as welcoming as possible.
It is true that we need to be careful regarding certain sectors in the world's poorest countries, but we also need to be careful that these are not the only people who cannot develop their skills in the European Union.
Community policy on immigration continues to be schizophrenic.
The Commission has explained it to us: we need 50 million immigrants by 2060, but we are doing nothing to encourage them to come, and instead we have made it a priority to harmonise the return policy.
We know how to read the fact that the Blue Card is the first signal in opening up legal immigration channels, but this is not enough to ensure that our group will vote in favour.
The Blue Card that you are proposing is nothing but an indraught to the entire world to attract millions of new immigrants, whereas it is not this policy that needs to be pursued, but a policy for returning immigrants to their countries, a policy of national and Community preference, a policy of national and Community protection.
The only way to have a balanced immigration policy is to be firm in combating illegal immigration and to boldly regulate legal migration.
In this context, we approve the Directive on the 'Blue Card'.
For this reason, I also support the proposal for a directive which aims to establish a single application procedure for a single residence and work permit.
I agree with what Ewa Klamt has said: it is useful to create a common system for the admission of highly qualified workers, instead of having 27 different systems.
Everything indicates that a political decision has already been taken by the Council without waiting for the vote in Parliament, which I regret. (DE) Mr President, first of all I would like to express my deepest condolences to Mrs Klamt and to congratulate her on this report.
Therefore, we must do more for education and training at home and we must also open up our labour markets to highly qualified immigrants.
The Blue Card is the first step in the right direction and represents a possible triple win situation.
Firstly, in the medium term, companies can fill some of their vacancies with skilled workers and benefit from new international expertise.
Just as our citizens are able to look for work in other countries or leave their country of origin without facing major obstacles, it should be possible for people from other countries to work in the EU.
However, Mr Jouyet, I should also like to include the French Presidency in this because, regarding the Blue Card at least, the French Presidency has demonstrated a high level of commitment which has enabled a political agreement to be obtained at Council level.
As fellow Members have pointed out, the European Union is taking, with these two reports, an important step in its migratory policy.
Today, however, with these two texts, the European Union is sanctioning the need and importance of an active legal economic immigration policy.
By introducing the obligation for Member States to grant a single residence and work permit, Patrick Gaubert's report also aims to ensure the right of immigrant workers to equal treatment in as many areas as possible.
I should like to send a message to my friend Giusto Catania.
The system - I am not talking here of principles -, the system is slightly overcautious, at times too protectionist, but fundamentally it represents a necessary step forward, and that is why I, personally and as Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, shall vote in favour of the two reports. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for many years we have been hearing, on the subject of immigration, a series of calls accompanied by schedules, telling us the lovely fairytale of the need - also stated by the UN - for the continuous expansion of the Western economy and, in particular, we have heard European countries claim there is a need for tens or perhaps hundreds of millions of new workers for Europe.
Europe certainly still needs qualified immigrants, and they can be useful to us, but there is a huge obstacle in terms of the rights of the immigrants' countries not to have their best brains taken away from them.
There would be special access for highly educated workers, with very high requirements in relation to the level of education and professional experience of the person in question, and with a minimum salary that, in Sweden for example, would have to amount to at least SEK 43 000 or EUR 4 300 per month.
Ordinary workers or people needing protection need not bother, whereas highly educated people - the very people the developing world needs if its countries are to be able to improve their situations domestically - these people are welcome.
Successful applicants for the so-called Blue Card work permit, who are allowed to enter one Member State, will be permitted, after 18 months, to move to another Member State.
If and when the Lisbon Treaty is fully ratified, Britain's opt-out will prove to be worthless and it is almost certain that we will be forced to comply with this directive. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is a strategic mistake on Europe's part to think that we should import qualified staff from other nations, and from other continents, when it ought to be our institutions, our schools and our universities training highly qualified workers, in accordance with a new strategic approach.
Thus, what is missing is an idea of what the future of Europe will be and therefore nobody is thinking of who we will need to call upon over the next ten or fifteen years to lead our high-level factories or facilities.
We should also say that this will certainly involve a lowering of welfare benefits for those doing these jobs in Italy and other European countries.
I think that this European work permit will resolve the whole range of problems linked to illegal immigration which Europe is facing.
However, this policy on European cards needs to be implemented in a logical manner so that it does not cause any serious imbalance or trigger major problems in the countries where the specialists originally come from. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is fairly satisfied with these two proposals.
This also applies to the Blue Card: there is resistance on some central principles, such as 'equal pay for equal work', which is a sacrosanct, natural principle.
Even on this, however, we have encountered certain areas of difficulty.
There are other inclusive principles relating to political and social welfare attitudes that ought to form part of immigration policies.
If it becomes selection, then it is no longer a positive policy. (EL) Mr President, the proposals for a directive and the two reports implement the general immigration policy of the European Union, the aim of which is to secure cheap manpower for European capital in order to increase its profits.
The directive on the granting of a blue residence and work card in the European Union to highly qualified immigrants allows brainpower to be stolen from poorer countries so that European monopolies can acquire a better position in global competition, especially with the United States of America.
The second directive and report on a standard residence and work permit moves in the same direction.
The overall policy of the European Union legalises the harsh and savage exploitation of immigrants and workers as a whole in the European Union.
We support the fight by immigrants for equal employment and social rights, the fight to defend and extend workers' rights throughout the European Union. (SV) One of the arguments that is put forward for why the EU is not an attractive immigration destination for qualified workers is the fact that there are different entry and residence rules in the different Member States.
Sweden has invested in education and language teaching, amongst other things, which has made Sweden one of the most competitive countries, with companies such as Ericsson, Volvo and Ikea.
The line between foolishness and crime in human action is often a grey one, and it seems to me that the EU is today giving us another example of that. (MT) I welcome the report by Ewa Klamt and Patrick Gaubert on the Blue Card and single application procedure.
These reports are therefore very relevant, because through them we can build up future policies on this extremely important issue.
As was previously mentioned, we must adhere to the principle of Community preference, whereby European Union citizens are given preference over non-European Union citizens.
On this basis, I believe that not only can we develop a policy on legal migration that deals with the granting of the Blue Card to highly qualified workers, but that down the line, we can begin work on other proposals that I know the Commission will put forward in the coming months, and which concern the possibility of employment for less qualified workers.
In the area of illegal immigration policy, there are a number of issues pending that we still have to consider, such as the law on sanctions against employers who illegally employ third country citizens or, effectively, illegal immigrants.
To conclude, it would be worth noting that, had the Lisbon Treaty been in force today, the legal basis of these proposals would be different to what we have now.
This is why we want to help in the training of highly qualified workers in key sectors, in their countries of origin, and we must promote circular migration.
The Right is afraid of illegal immigration on a huge scale.
We do not want either of these things, in other words, neither illegal immigration on a huge scale, nor the employment of illegal immigrants which will give them legal status.
We are also putting in place standardised rules for issuing the Blue Card and for monitoring it throughout Europe.
Finally, I would just like to say that the Blue Card is a tool for the Member States which will allow them to react flexibly.
I believe that the Blue Card represents a positive step in the direction of controlled immigration based on the requirements, opportunities and needs of the Member States. (EL) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, for over a decade now, there has been no substantial debate on how Member States can cooperate in order to make Europe a more attractive destination for the legal immigrants which our communities require and a more humane place for those already living among us.
The recent 'return directive' which, as we know, treats many poor immigrants as common criminals, is indicative of the almost monomaniacal way in which Europe is focusing on a policing approach to immigration policy.
Within this framework, one cannot but welcome the legislative initiatives which we are debating today.
We now need bold legislative initiatives in order to introduce European rules on legal work and for the millions of others whom our economies and communities need. (EL) Mr President, Mr Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Union is still seen as an unattractive place by highly qualified workers from third countries, while unskilled immigrants arrive in their thousands.
The European immigration policy therefore needs a broad and consistent general approach to peace and security, European development policy and integration and employment policies.
However, we need preconditions.
The principle of subsidiarity must be applied until such time as we have uniform social systems and uniform labour legislation.
Blue Cards should only be issued, even if the preconditions are met, at the discretion of each Member State, with European added value in the form of mobility after two years' legal residence in another Member State. (DE) Mr President, in order to bring illegal immigration under control, to meet the challenges represented by demographic change, to increase our competitiveness and, at the same time, to ensure a high level of social harmony, we need a joint immigration policy more urgently than ever.
This House is in agreement on this point.
For this reason, I would like to thank all four rapporteurs for their close cooperation.
This means that the principle of equal treatment must apply to everyone without restrictions, in the case of employees' rights, access to education and access to social security systems.
If we are serious about equal treatment, we cannot adopt the principles of equal treatment first of all just for highly qualified workers and then later perhaps for other migrants. (SV) Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Klamt, and the shadow rapporteurs, for an interesting report.
This shows that we are taking third countries' concerns about brain drain seriously.
This directive is the first major text concerning legal immigration.
The Commission therefore had no other option if it was to hope to move forward slightly in the field of legal immigration than to start with highly qualified workers, for whom it knew it would be easier to obtain the agreement of the Member States.
This is why it is important that the Blue Card system, as described in Mrs Klamt's report, leaves room for policy from national Member States.
Accordingly, it is important for people who are already residing legally in the EU not to have to return to their home countries first in order to apply for a Blue Card for an EU Member State if they meet the other conditions. (DE) Mr President, within the next 20 years, the European Union will need more highly qualified workers from third countries.
That alone will not be enough to secure our future in the long term. (PL) Mr President, we all remember the labour camps opened in the autumn of 2006 in several European Union Member States.
The proposal makes for more civilised working conditions and simplifies the rules governing the employment and residence of legal immigrants.
The fact is that most European labour markets are now open to us, and, as is well known, all transition periods will end before the Blue Card comes into effect. (LT) Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the world is becoming more and more open, not just Europe.
The interest of the European Union is clear: we lack, we need workers, as well as highly qualified specialists, because our citizens use their right to leave, live and work elsewhere, somewhere they prefer.
However, I would like to remind you that Romanian and Bulgarian citizens still face restrictions on the labour market, with fears already that some countries are going to extend the transitional period for another three years.
The deciding factor is not only a rapid reception process for workers, free of bureaucratic obstacles, but common and unified conditions of access for all of the 27 different labour markets.
In a way it is a supportive measure to the EU development cooperation policy, as the Blue Card workers eventually return to their countries of origin with the experience that is vital for progress. (RO) I believe that it is extremely important for the European Union to become more attractive to highly qualified workers, especially bearing in mind that the majority of immigrants at the moment are unqualified.
These workers need to enjoy favourable conditions, a harmonised system for regulating emigration, and movement from one country to another, as well as salaries which reflect their qualifications.
The European Blue Card must also be seen as a way of discouraging illegal immigration, as part of the agreement for immigration and asylum, as well as part of the solution to the problem of the labour shortage which will affect the European Union in the coming decades.
At the same time, we should remember that all benefits must be consistent within the EU.
We must work simultaneously to strengthen the education and continued development schemes for specialists needed by the labour markets in our Member States. (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw attention to two dangers which have emerged during the debate and in proposed regulations.
I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs and the draftsmen of the opinion, Mr Masiel, Mrs Jeleva and Mrs Panayotopoulos, and say that, indeed, as our debates have shown, this is a great step forward for agreement on legal immigration.
On the question of Community preference as raised by Mrs Grabowska and Mrs Gál, and by Mr Fava and Mr Catania, in particular, I would point out that the Blue Card will not apply until 2011, by which time the transitional measures of the accession treaties will have come to an end, and that it offers a status that is not equivalent to the status of EU citizens.
Furthermore, we are ready and wish to include in the text the principle of Community preference enshrined in the accession treaties.
Nonetheless, we are moving forward since there is a single set of rights for all third-party workers in the European Union, and we must start with the highly qualified, seasonal, posted and trainee workers.
I should just like to state again that the draft directive respects Community preference fully.
Moreover, this Community preference is enshrined in the European Union accession treaties and the treaties state that if a Member State applies temporary restrictions on the freedom of movement of workers who are nationals of another Member State, it must grant them priority, in terms of access to the labour market, over workers who are third-country nationals.
Next, I also need in turn to reply to those who are concerned by the risks of a brain drain.
I would remind you that the proposal recommends a clause on ethical recruitment in order to restrict and even ban active advertising that might be undertaken by Member States in developing countries, which are already facing a serious brain drain.
Thirdly, I obviously want to say that this text will be followed by other proposals from the Commission.
I too, shall just repeat what Mr Jouyet said so well, that there is a very definite desire to treat all these immigrants and new arrivals in the European Union with equal rights which, once again, also reflects the ideal of our European Community.
Indeed, I feel that we must get used to dealing with them dispassionately, with great objectivity and with a great sense of justice, while recognising that we also need immigration, but an immigration which, specifically, is covered by a legal framework that is reliable and fair for all.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first of all that I am happy to convey to Ewa Klamt your best wishes and also your sympathy.
Thirdly, this was to be expected when it came to the question of the Blue Card, but I would also like to say that this is a positive first step towards presenting a common image throughout the world.
For this reason, I believe that we should take this step together, so that we can move one step further along the way.
We have a migratory policy that is both humane and firm; humane because it rejects the disgraceful living conditions of the illegal immigrants who are living in our countries - we are doing all we can to stop men and women boarding boats and risking their lives - and firm because it condemns the traffickers and rogue bosses.
Concerning the Blue Card and the residence permit single procedure, I say to our friend Mr Catania that we need the elite and the others in our countries.
Europe does not consider immigrants as crooks or criminals or as a threat to our security or workforce.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 November.
Furthermore, we need to implement this measure with special care and responsibility, taking into account the situation in terms of human resources in certain fields in the countries these migrants originate from, so as not to deepen the human resources crisis further, particularly in the education and health sectors.
Finally, I support Mrs Klamt's position with regard to applying Community preference during the recruitment process and to the idea of giving priority to citizens from the new Member States who are still subject to restrictions concerning access to the labour market.
In a situation where access to the labour market in most of the EU's states is still restricted for Romanians, either totally or in certain areas, I feel that it is necessary to oblige Member States to reject Blue Card applications for those sectors in which access for workers from the countries which have recently joined the EU is still restricted by the current transitional provisions.
Immigration has long been one of the most important economic and social issues in the European Union.
Rising unemployment in itself leads to social tension, and so we must prevent further heightening of existing domestic ethnic and racial tensions through immigration.
I feel I need to remind you that the UK and Ireland have already expressed the desire to maintain the labour market restrictions for Romania and Bulgaria for another three years.
Although this directive refers to the principle of Community preference, it is obvious that this cannot be applied to those European citizens who are subject to restrictions in certain sectors of the European labour market.
By promoting and facilitating legal immigration, Europe will not only be combating the shortage of specialists, but also the trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration.
At the same time, we should not become protectionist due to the present economic crisis.
The European Union system of 27 different permits is an obstruction to 'brains' coming to work in Europe.
Europe now needs, and will need in the future, both a more and less trained workforce from beyond the borders of the EU.
The Blue Card would enhance the mobility of trained workers from third countries in the EU.
I believe that it is vital for us to have a uniform immigration system for all 27 Member States so that every state in the European Union can benefit from the added value contributed by a highly qualified workforce.
