The legal basis cannot, therefore, lie in Article 179 of the Treaty of Nice, because that is precisely the statutory basis for development policy that should be avoided here.
As rapporteur - and the Committee on Development will back me up on this - I cannot agree to Article 179 as the legal basis.
The adoption of the communication is foreseen for April 2009 and is included in the Commission's legislative work programme.
The two exercises are different, but they are complementary.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I welcome very warmly the statement made by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner just now, and I ask my political group to withdraw its amendment so that this report can go through.
I have to say that I believe the development instrument is for development purposes.
I fully back Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner in finding Article 181a, possibly, a more adequate legal basis, which would provide for these kinds of concerns that I am highlighting.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank Thijs Berman for his report.
I can conceive of both the alternatives he proposes in paragraph 3 of his report.
I should like to make it clear, however, that non-ODA actions are also relevant to a country's development: it is only the choice of legal basis that is in dispute.
The Committee on Development opts for a narrow interpretation of Article 179 and must therefore resort to articles intended for domestic policies as a legal basis.
Financing actions of this kind is important from a political perspective as it can ensure continuity of the European Union's presence in the countries and regions which have already gone beyond the initial development stage.
The use of Article 179 as the legal basis for non-development activities is clearly not appropriate and, as such, would contravene both the EC Treaty and the acquis communautaire.
I thank the Commission for its comment that non-ODA actions will, over time, become more and more important in developing countries and in middle-income countries, etc.
Some of us agree that Article 179 is not the basis we are looking for.
The debate is closed.
The reform of the foreign policy instruments is very important to us all, and so it should be made clear that we are not fighting against one another.
The Union's central role as a key actor in development cooperation should be strengthened even further in the future.
The EU needs to establish the necessary instruments for implementing coherent development policy measures.
