Madam President, I have the honour of answering a question from Mrs Harkin.
These are priority issues for our Presidency in the area of agriculture and a special conference on animal welfare will be held in the Swedish city of Uppsala on 8-9 October.
In view of that and in view of the fact that Ireland is an island, and that without live exports there will be a cosy cartel operating, particularly for beef and sheep prices, can you give us any hope that this will be addressed or compromised prior to the vote on the Lisbon Treaty on 2 October?
Subject: Child trafficking in the EU A report published in July by the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA) highlighted the severity of the problem of child trafficking in the EU.
In March 2009, the Commission tabled a proposal for a new Framework Decision on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, and protecting victims of such activities.
The aim is to create a more consistent legal framework, make it more effective and make the penalties for perpetrators more severe.
These two proposals are currently being discussed in the Council.
In conjunction with a ministerial conference that the Presidency is holding in Brussels on 19-20 October, which will focus on overarching EU measures against human trafficking, the report from the Agency for Fundamental Rights will be presented and discussed in detail and the conclusions will be presented to the Council.
The Swedish Presidency also intends to bring up human trafficking and the sexual abuse of children as priority issues in the Stockholm Programme, which we intend to adopt at the summit in December.
I know that this issue is hugely important.
I would simply like to point out that I think it is a great shame that Members of the European Parliament will be unable to attend the conference on 19-20 October because we will be here in Strasbourg, and we cannot be in Brussels at the same time to take part in this important conference.
As regards the Member's second question, concerning why this has been dropped: I was not aware of this.
The UN FAO conference will start on 18 November.
The reform process is based on the action plan approved by all the members of the FAO in 2008.
This action plan involves many different types of reforms.
We also expect the reform process to have long-term effects on the FAO's work on matters concerning its staffing and local offices.
In order to discuss these matters at a political level, the FAO is holding a World Summit on Food Security in Rome on 16-18 November.
In its conclusions concerning the FAO on 11 November 2008, the Council acknowledged that the current food crisis demands a common united and coordinated response from the global community, supported by civil society and the private sector.
The Presidency feels that the summit should have this clear political aim, to launch a new system for managing the world's food supply in which a rejuvenated and stronger CFS plays a leading part.
President-in-Office of the Council. - We have not discussed that in the Council in the light of this particular conference, but it is clear that the common agricultural policy can play a role and can also, when we discuss it in the future, play an increasing role in facilitating the poorer countries to be part of the common market, as well as in where we can help to mitigate and to eliminate the current acute crisis.
Just today, the ALDE AGRI group had a meeting with Commissioner Fischer Boel and we were discussing that very issue and the future, as has already been alluded to, of the CAP, particularly post 2013, and the fact that the budget may be cut, etc.
If it does, we, the Swedish Presidency, intend to have a first discussion among the Member States on it, but it will be up to the Spanish Presidency to really start working on these issues.
These efforts were necessary and appropriate, and played an important part in averting an even more serious crisis, in stabilising the economy and in preventing a drastic economic recession.
I expect these discussions to result in a clear accord on ambitious consolidation at the right time in each Member State in order to guarantee long-term sustainability.
I trust that you will focus in particular on whether we should insist on 2010 being a year for improving public finances or whether there should be some way of providing extensions or delays, as this is something from which the Union has not benefited to date in its policies.
The Council places great importance on the European Social Fund and the EU Globalisation Adjustment Fund and we want these to be used effectively to combat unemployment.
The Council expressed this in December 2008 when it backed the rapid introduction by the European Social Fund of supplementary measures to support employment.
In this context, I would mention the European transparency initiative launched by the Commission in 2005.
Where the EU Globalisation Fund is concerned, information on the measures financed should be provided by the Member States.
They are working on such a proposal and will present it as soon as possible. (RO) I am sorry that the necessary support in the form of 100% financing is not being provided through the Council at a time when we are talking about the European Social Fund's role in reducing unemployment, especially during the current crisis.
Unemployment will also be discussed at a particular informal Ecofin meeting in October, where unemployment is one of the main issues on the agenda; and in the light of the discussion that I know is taking place within the European Parliament, but also in almost all Council formations concerning the future of the Lisbon Strategy, there are lots of issues being discussed.
That is the first good answer I have received from the Council on this subject.
However, action needs to follow and we see none, which is why I would ask that you brief us properly once again on this issue in the run-up to negotiations on the agreement.
May I say that we shall be debating the question of the Nabucco pipeline in Parliament tomorrow and remind you that, in January 2009, the Turkish Prime Minister threatened Brussels that his country would re-examine its support for the construction of the natural gas pipeline if negotiations on the opening of the energy chapter do not continue.
Madam President, the EU has followed the situation of Aung San Suu Kyi closely ever since she was imprisoned twenty years ago.
To mention some of these actions: In August, the EU immediately condemned the judgment against Aung San Suu Kyi and the proceedings against her, which had no legal basis.
The Council stated that the legal proceedings against Aung San Suu Kyi represented a crime against national and international law.
Moreover, the EU's high representative, Javier Solana, spoke out on behalf of Aung San Suu Kyi at the ASEAN ministerial meeting and the subsequent ASEAN-EU ministerial conference in July, at which a representative of Burma was also present.
The response agreed on by the Council on 13 August is entirely in line with the resolution passed by the European Parliament in October 2008.
I can assure the Member that in addition to these specific measures, the EU will intensify its work within the international community and, in particular, with like-minded partners in Asia in order to bring about the immediate and unconditional release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners.
The new administration has raised the ambitions of the United States substantially in this area.
In the area of trade, the Doha Round must be concluded ambitiously in 2010.
The forthcoming summit between the EU and the United States is an excellent opportunity to discuss these and other relevant issues at the highest level.
I know that there are different proposals discussed in the media but I must say that the EU is extremely well coordinated.
As we know, on the initiative of President Obama, the USA and Russia started very important negotiations on nuclear disarmament.
How, in your opinion, can the Council and the European Union facilitate, and have its input in, these negotiations which are so important for the future of mankind?
I think it is an important step that those two countries sit down and discuss, as you say, important issues for mankind, and we can but hope that they move forward in a concrete way.
There is a global nuclear summit in March 2010 where the EU will be present, of course, as well.
