Reduced rates of value added tax (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs van den Burg on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards reduced rates of value added tax - C6-0299/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (NL) This report on reduced VAT rates has been on quite a journey.
There is apparently here in this Parliament a variation on the Latin saying Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi, what is legitimate for Mrs Lulling, is not legitimate for an ordinary MEP.
Together with the Commissioner, I count on your support and I assume that Mrs Lulling will realise that if she withholds her support from this resolution because things have not gone her way, she will be much worse off and will create the wrong impression that she is opposed to a reduced VAT rate.
This Parliament, and I am very proud of this, has a long tradition of supporting proposals for applying a reduced VAT rate for labour-intensive services.
This employment target is, to my mind, very important again at this point in time.
I would like to add a brief comment about the current situation.
It was deleted in Amendment 6 and re-introduced in Amendment 7.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I want to thank the European Parliament for its quick handling of this proposal, in the light of the request by the European Council of last December in the context of the European Economic Recovery Plan to settle the issue of reduced VAT rates in certain sectors by March 2009.
I would like to thank the ECON Committee and the rapporteur, Ms van den Burg, for their support.
Moreover, it is important to ensure equal possibilities for all Member States in sectors such as housing and restaurants, because in these sectors Member States are currently not on an equal footing.
It is not the moment to destroy jobs, which would be the case if the reduced rates currently applied in 18 Member States for labour--intensive services were not made definitive.
On Amendments 1 and 4: concerning the amendments related to the addition of children's clothes and footwear, I would like to remind you that the proposal under consideration is a restricted one dealing principally with locally supplied, labour-intensive services.
At the same time, however, I think that we could have handled the matter better in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which was responsible for the report.
However, the EU needs a more sensible view of how reduced VAT rates can be used to promote jobs and growth, particularly on the local market and for labour-intensive services.
In the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, we fully supported the Commission's line and added Amendments 6 and 7 under Mr Harbour's name.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, today's discussion - and the previous speakers have confirmed this - is taking place in very unusual circumstances, since we do not have a report for the plenary as would normally be the case.
The regrettable, but at the same time inevitable, result of the vote should not, therefore, be surprising, Mrs van den Burg.
I would like to offer you some friendly advice to change your attitude in future because as the Romans used to say, errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum ['to err is human, but to persist is diabolical].
These amendments are important, and it has been said very clearly, Mrs van den Burg, that no one can prevent a Member from proposing amendments to a document or to a resolution.
The most important of our amendments concerns applying reduced rates to alcoholic beverages in restaurants.
Believe me, if you do not vote for Amendment 3, I know how to inform the whole of Europe's catering sector - and it is large - that your position has prevented the application of a reduced VAT rate on all its services.
Our fellow citizens already had high expectations in this matter at this time of economic crisis and the daily catalogue of bad news.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, as you know, the European Parliament recognises that your job is difficult.
Renewing, on a temporary basis, this experiment with a reduced rate of VAT, when it aims at and contributes towards strengthening labour-intensive services - not necessarily the case for alcoholic drinks in restaurants - has shown us that this system works, so let us build on it.
I hope with all my heart that his crowning achievement, this directive, will go through with solid support from Parliament.
Some countries, today, faced with the crisis, are reducing all their VAT rates.
As environmentalists, we would have liked you to target the green revolution specifically: the sectors that are necessary if we are to emerge from the current crisis, which is the result of the industrial, liberal and productivist model that has dominated the world for more than 30 years.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL-NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner Kovács, ladies and gentlemen, and especially Mrs van den Burg, it is regrettable that here in Parliament we are only able to agree on the Commission's proposal and not on the actual report produced by Mrs van den Burg.
This will secure jobs, particularly in small- and micro-sized enterprises, and bring whole sectors out of the underground economy and transform them into a regulated economic activity.
In the present crisis, this stabilisation is very important.
No doubt the gestures towards European Union will continue, but democratically-elected governments have a primary interest in looking after the populations that elected them.
France and Germany have made it clear that their fiscal stimuli are there to help their own industries and workers.
In the country I know best, where we have waltzed into a 2.5% reduction in VAT across the board - with, as Mr Allister says, little or no obvious response or result economically - I would suggest that it would have been much more effective to have concentrated action in the particular areas of labour-intensive, localised industries and to have reduced the rate substantially from 17.5% down to the lower rate of 5%, or below.
The application of a reduced rate of VAT will be very important in the housing sector, both in construction and in renovation, as it will allow Member States which adopt it to reduce the cost to the end user.
I welcome the work of the rapporteurs and call for the adoption of this proposal in the exact terms in which it came from the Commission and in which it was adopted in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (LT) The regulation of VAT reductions has long been an area demanding a systemic approach.
The Commission's proposal covers labour-intensive services and locally-based services for private end consumers, including restaurant services, which would not impede the proper functioning of the internal market.
I agree that VAT reductions must be applied with the economic and social considerations that every citizen should be able to acquire the goods and services they need most and with the aim of strengthening and supporting locally-based services. (PL) Madam President, the EU is confronting the most serious economic challenge in its history.
What is happening today, as regards the capital transferred from the newly admitted Member States, is impossible to control and contradicts the fundamental ideological precepts of the EU. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the rapporteur, Mrs van den Burg, and the whole Parliament if it adopts this proposal aimed at amending the provisions of the VAT directive.
I therefore share the rapporteur's hope that this instrument sets out a fiscal system that will promote employment, increase productivity and reduce the underground economy. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has always taken a close interest in changes to VAT, whether for the purpose of harmonising rates among Member States, adjusting VAT to the economic climate, or taking account of temporary exemptions granted to new members of the European Union.
The proposal in question is, however, aimed at extending the application of reduced VAT rates to a variety of services, including labour-intensive services, restaurants, locally-supplied services, construction and transfer of housing, and services provided for the disadvantaged.
Far from seeking to harmonise VAT in all Member States, the directive in question, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, intends to ensure equal opportunities for all Member States, while allowing them to set their own reduced rates.
The debate remains open, though, on the application of reduced rates for environmental protection and energy saving, on which the Commission is to provide specific assessments, given the importance of these sectors to the EU economy. (PL) Madam President, in adding my voice to the debate on the Commission's proposal for reduced VAT rates, I would like to draw your attention to the implications of this proposal in terms of combating the impact of the current crisis.
Reducing the VAT rate for labour-intensive services meets this objective.
Stable public finances during the current period of economic upheaval will allow the relevant governments to deal with the structural deficits in the current period.
So we await the Council's response - I hope that it will be able to adopt this proposal as soon as possible and open a wider and more ambitious debate on promoting fiscal policies for families as well as businesses, and perhaps come to extend reduced VAT to all children's goods. - (LV) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, within the context of Europe's Economic Recovery Plan, it is being recommended that the Member States should make a temporary reduction in VAT in order to stimulate consumption.
In addition, the European Commission has prepared a proposal to extend Member States' options for applying a reduced VAT rate.
Wider application of a reduced VAT rate will not only foster economic recovery, but will also contribute to the creation of new jobs and reduce the black economy.
The amendments to the directive provide for a significant extension of the opportunities for applying reduced VAT rates.
From the economic and environmental policy viewpoint, it is also important to apply a reduced VAT rate to energy-saving materials and services connected with energy saving and energy efficiency.
I call upon the European Commission to speed up the consideration of this issue and to prepare proposals on these points as swiftly as possible.
Thank you for your attention. (ES) Madam President, I am in favour of allowing Member States to apply harmonised reduced VAT rates on a permanent basis for certain services of social interest and labour-intensive, locally supplied services.
Now, however, with the crisis affecting many - if not all - countries, there is also the idea that Parliament, as the mouthpiece of the political views of society, should also make an effort to look at issues which were not covered at the time, at the beginning, such as the issue of agricultural machinery, which my group has the facility to propose in Amendment 2.
Thousands of low-skilled jobs are being lost every day in every Member State.
Our responsibility here today is to deliver a strong message to our Member State governments to get on with it.
I support the rapporteur's proposal and I believe that this measure is particularly important, especially during the current crisis. - Madam President, I also welcome the Commission's proposal and believe it to be an intelligent response to the crisis that we are facing.
This results in enormous budgetary losses and an increase in unregistered employment.
In this context, the initiative for introducing a long-term reduction in VAT rates for labour-intensive services and locally-supplied services deserves particular support, as it provides businesses with an incentive to operate within the formal economy.
Moreover, it will promote an increase in both productivity and employment.
At the same time, however, potential adverse effects, such as the introduction of lower rates to promote free competition within the internal market, or a decrease in budgetary revenue, should be taken into account.
Therefore, balanced and transparent measures are essential, since obtaining the trust of our entrepreneurs is a prerequisite for the project's success. - (LT) I would like to talk about value added tax from two points of view - social justice and competitiveness.
This reluctance certainly sets limits on our ambitions, as we need unanimity in the Council.
In that case, 18 Member States that currently apply reduced VAT rates on locally supplied, labour-intensive services should return to the standard rate.
An increase in VAT rates from 5-6% to 20-25% would certainly result in the bankruptcy of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and in the loss of tens of thousands of jobs at a time of serious economic crisis.
I have been encouraged by the understanding and support expressed in this plenary debate.
I thank Parliament for its support and understanding, and in particular the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Ms van den Burg for their work.
I would like to emphasise once again, particularly regarding energy efficiency and renovation of buildings, that this is a very good instrument.
I think it is an excellent instrument and I very much hope that the Council will accept this decision and maybe - even more - coordinate and decide to apply this instrument.
The text that the European Commission presented on 28 January 2009 proposed applying a reduced VAT rate to several categories of activity, particularly the catering industry.
It is a measure that I have been wanting and for which I have been calling for a number of years.
The European Commission's proposal follows the German declaration of 20 January, stating that it was no longer opposed to the introduction of a reduced rate in this sector.
The text on which we are voting today must send a strong signal to that effect.
in writing. - (FR) For our fellow citizens, tax harmonisation constitutes a basic safeguard in the fight against economic inequalities and social dumping in Europe.
The inhabitants of my country are unable to comprehend why a zero VAT rate is applied to children's items in Ireland and Great Britain and a rate of 3% applies in Luxembourg, while Poland is expected to increase its VAT rate from 7 to 22%.
in writing. - (FR) At a time when Europe is faced with a major economic crisis, adopting this report will make it possible to revitalise the services sector by asking Member States to accept a reduced rate of VAT of 5% on labour-intensive services and locally supplied services.
In my opinion, we should go further still and also consider a reduced rate for cultural products such as CDs or videos, as well as environmentally-friendly products such as green cars or energy efficient buildings.
In July 2008, the European Commission adopted a proposal on applying reduced VAT rates after 2010.
The sectors targeted in particular by this measure are labour-intensive services and locally provided services for local consumers such as services linked to the housing sector and the renovation of residential heating systems, as well as services linked to personal care and the catering industry.
The proposal is also part of the Small Business Act initiative which aims to stimulate activity in the more than 23 million small- and medium-sized enterprises in the EU with a view to developing the economy and creating new jobs.
I call on the Commission to closely monitor the application of these reduced VAT rates in Member States in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market.
The application of the reduced rate should most certainly be left in the hands of the Member States, while the tax system should promote employment, increase productivity and curb the 'informal economy'.
This is crucial as SMEs make up 99% of all European enterprises, but the sector is suffering in the current climate.
In times of crisis, these measures can be an important incentive for a number of industries.
This is why I am endorsing the van den Burg report, and I look forward to a political agreement on 10 March in the ECOFIN Council.
