Obligations of cross-border service providers (debate) The next item is the report by Lasse Lehtinen, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the obligations of cross-border service providers.
The Services Directive, which was decided on in this House a year ago, will improve the situation, when the Member States have to implement it in two years' time, but that will probably not be enough either.
Services, of course, cannot be compared to products in all respects, but services will one day be more important than they are now.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am pleased to be here tonight to represent the Commission in this very important discussion on consumer confidence in the internal market.
The Commission of course is very keen to ensure proper implementation of this Directive in all Member States and we believe that those two initiatives are very far-reaching because we can, from both of those initiatives, expect a real change in the consumer internal market for services once the implementation of the Services Directive is complete and the review of the consumer acquis delivers its results.
Also, I would like to say that Article 5 of the contractual obligations (Rome I) proposal is essential in order to determine whether the consumer protection legislation of the country of origin or of the country of the client applies.
Sometimes it is not very clear which legal regime is applicable to each aspect of the activities of the services sector: whether they have to obey the civil law of the host or home country or the regulatory regime of the host or home country.
I have a copy of his book Blood, Sweat and Bears, which he gave me to read, and I think he has put a bit of blood and sweat into this.
You already confirmed, I think, what many of us feel - that with all the work that is currently going on to implement the Services Directive, the Green Paper on the consumer acquis, which we have just considered and which will result in a horizontal instrument in that area plus the other work that is going on - which my colleague from the Committee on Legal Affairs, Ms Kauppi, and I know Ms Wallis will cover later - I think it is much too early to contemplate any further detailed provisions at this stage.
It is absolutely clear that we do need to monitor this, but of course within the Services Directive itself, with all the work we put in it, there are a very substantial number of provisions.
I think it will add to the corpus of information that we are building up to ensure, above all, that the Services Directive is fully implemented and is implemented on time, with all the accompanying provisions - particularly the issues like the single point of contact for service providers, which will give them the sort of requirements and information that they need to provide services plus, we hope, the sort of work on codes of conduct.
On the other hand, there is a lack of clear rules on the obligations of service providers.
This means that, even after the Services Directive has been implemented in all Member States by 2009, we may be left with an open market in which consumers do not have confidence.
Businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, also need clearer rules since they often choose not to provide a service or make a sale across borders, which leads to reduced competition and higher prices for the consumer.
Some examples which are mentioned in the report are voluntary codes of conduct for service providers and the possibility of collective action on a cross-border basis against fraudsters or businesses which do not honour their commitments to consumers.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the development of the Union's internal market is very significant in terms of forging links between the countries and citizens of the Union.
These include the lack of a single system regulating the obligations of cross-border service providers and the need to supplement Union documents in this regard.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, although sadly I have not yet had the pleasure of reading one of his books.
Admittedly, legal frameworks are already in place for services in the internal market, such as the Services Directive or the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, but the implementation of these Directives - both of them - sadly still leaves a lot to be desired.
I therefore think it is regrettable that the Council is not present this evening, as we could have made it clear once again that we expect both Directives to be implemented by the deadline and the work in the Member States to be pursued accordingly.
In her report, Mrs Roithová has pointed out that there are still very many deficits in relation to Internet sales in particular, and that consumers still lack the requisite confidence in cross-border services here.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, we have adopted a Services Directive through which we have handed over to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg the power to decide what we have decided!
It is necessary because the volume of cross-border trade in services is very low as compared to the trade in goods, a situation that also generates the lack of confidence of European Union citizens in the consumption of such products.
As Members will be aware, the Services Directive must be implemented in all Member States by December 2009.
It should be borne in mind that the Services Directive will significantly improve consumers' rights.
We would do well to keep that in mind. (SK) The Service Directive, which is to be transposed into national law in all the Member States by 28 December 2009, will have a significant effect on cross-border services.
I agree that when it comes to consumer protection, the same obligations should apply to the providers of private and public services.
Thank you very much indeed, Commissioner, for an interesting debate, in which more than 50% of the speakers were women, which is just as it should be.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 27 September 2007.
Harmonisation of quality standards will strengthen consumer and supplier confidence in cross-border services.
