Trade in services (debate) The next item is the report by Syed Kamall, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on trade in services.
But before we do that, let us remind ourselves of the importance of services.
We should work together to end state monopolies that leave many of the poorest without essential services and we should be always be a friend to those entrepreneurs who want to tackle global poverty by creating wealth and jobs through increased investment in services.
The 50 years of Communism and recent changes in my country prove that liberalisation is a force for good rather than for bad, and I strongly support it.
It is important for the European Union to take the initiative on this in all of its trade agreements, especially when we are seeing the collapse - which we do not know whether it is temporary or permanent - of the Doha Round, and of the multilateral framework as a whole in this area.
The primary targets for the EU are the binding consolidation of at least the status quo as regards access to markets, and their further liberalisation.
The level of offers and the general course of WTO negotiations have so far been disappointing in the service sector.
Bilateral or interregional negotiations on ambitious free-trade agreements are becoming a necessary addition to the multilateral framework, especially since the failure of the negotiations in July.
The global trade in services reveals a growing trend and already accounts for a quarter of services.
Firstly, benefiting from the European Union's knowledge and skills in this field, which they need in order to develop their own economies, especially in basic and cross-disciplinary sectors such as financial services.
I would like to address two points in this regard.
The currency markets have an annual turnover of USD 360 trillion.
The liberalisation of financial services should therefore [take account of] the development status of the particular ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Mr President, there are two issues in this debate to which I would like to draw attention.
Firstly, it is true that in 2007 the services sector in the European Union accounted for as much as 75% of GNP, and the export of services from the EU represented more than 28% of total world exports, but there are still numerous barriers to the free provision of services within the European Union itself by service providers from the new Member States.
This approach, which has already been taken many times by the EU, has led to a restriction of production, and sometimes even to the elimination of many sectors of agricultural production within the European Union, which has significantly weakened food security for EU countries, and in recent months has also led to a marked rise in the cost of agricultural raw materials. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there has been talk of liberalising the banking system, but we all know that after Basel II a monopoly emerged in this sector and we saw entire businesses, entire economic units wiped out precisely as a result of the monopolisation of the financial system.
We have 25 million enterprises in Europe.
Many people in poorer countries have said to me they are sick and tired of not having a choice, of having to go to a state monopoly that performs badly or to a private monopoly that they all know has links to the ruling elite.
The vote will take place on Thursday 4 September 2008.
