Finally, on behalf of the majority of the Basque people, I would like to thank all of the Members of the European Parliament, who, by voting by a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, will have given us the opportunity to achieve peace.
Peace is the path'. (ES) Like previous speakers, I would like to congratulate the European Parliament on having created a new milestone on the road to peace in the Basque Country.
What this comes down to, though, is that the European Union as such, or its institutions for that matter, should not really interfere in the domestic affairs of Spain or the Basque country, so as not to make the Basque country's separation from Spain, or remaining part of it, any more complicated than the electorate, democratically, want it to be.
We should let Spain and the Basque country decide for themselves through peaceful negotiations and in a democratic manner. (ES) Mr President, I too am a Basque political representative.
I would like to state in this House that the terrorist group ETA is not an extremist organisation, it is a terrorist organisation, which for forty years has been murdering in violation of Spanish democracy.
Mr President, I have not voted for any of the Resolutions in a political gesture opposed to a debate entitled 'on the peace process in Spain', because I am fifty-four, Mr President, I have never lived through war, I have lived the whole of my life in Euskadi and in Euskadi we do not lack peace, we lack freedom.
I voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my colleague Mrs Grossetête on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the peace process in Spain in relation to the problems facing the Basque country.
If this is to happen, all democratic forces will need to combine together in order to facilitate a political solution between all peoples in Spain.
This would also immediately condemn all democratic and peaceful processes leading to more autonomy and independence in other European Member States.
Since the announcement of the ETA ceasefire in March of this year, Sinn Féin has argued that a unique opportunity exists for resolving the conflict in the Basque Country.
The EPP-ED resolution was opposed to the peace process.
Sinn Féin remains committed to supporting the Basque peace process, will continue to meet all political parties in the region and will offer whatever assistance those parties deem appropriate.
If we have, in the end, supported the resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, it is because it states what is our own conviction, namely that ETA has not fulfilled the conditions for becoming a credible negotiating partner.
It hardly needs pointing out that ETA has offered no apology to the families of the 1 000 victims of the attacks and that it has never renounced armed conflict.
On 23 September, it was again committing itself to pursuing the armed struggle, written in blood.
ETA has always tried to internationalise the peace process.
The Spanish government is dealing with one of the most difficult tasks - how to bring internal, politically driven violence to an end.
The vote on this resolution has put the PPE-DE Irish delegation in a difficult position.
It is unfortunate that the European Parliament is being forced to divide on such a fundamentally important issue for Spain.
This we regard as a matter to be resolved at the national level, and believe that the European Union should not concern itself with matters over which it has no power and for which it has no responsibility.
We are particularly critical, in this context, of paragraph 3 of the resolution, in which the Council and the Commission are urged to take appropriate action, something that we regard as going against the subsidiarity principle.
It is for this reason that we have refrained from participation in the vote. (NL) Mr President, I have voted against the Socialist-inspired joint motion for a resolution on the so-called peace process in Spain.
If, however, you realise that some of the group chairmen in this House who are tabling this resolution today have in the past personally given shelter to wanted terrorists, including Hans-Joachim Klein of the Rote Armee Fraktion, you should not be surprised by anything emanating from the Left and extreme Left, who are always prepared to take the moral high ground on every other issue. 'Chassez le naturel, il revient au galop'. (FR) Mr President, I should like to make a personal statement and ask the Member who has just spoken to apologise.
Just a moment please, Mr Dillen.
It is a typically political expression which is often used in political debate and which was certainly not meant personally.
I turn now to my explanation of vote.
However, we only voted in favour of this resolution because the new wording of paragraph 6 - which Mr Vidal-Quadras rightly called a substantial modification of the initial text - points out very clearly that this issue falls exclusively within the competence of Spain.
Parliament has today debated motions for resolutions by the majority of political groups concerning the peace process in Spain.
It is thus very depressing to see the opportunism with which different political forces in the European Parliament are trying to exploit this tragic chapter in Spanish history.
The content of this resolution represents unreserved support for the peace process and the fight against terrorist violence in our country in the terms established by the Congress of Deputies in May 2005.
Lastly, I feel that it is for Spain and the Spanish people to resolve the issue of Basque terrorism as they see fit, but I refuse to support a resolution in Parliament on this issue that makes no reference to ETA's unjustified and indefensible motives.
The terms in which the motion for a resolution was tabled for discussion are offensive to most Spanish people and in particular to the victims of terrorism in Spain.
I would emphasise, however, that, by recognising and welcoming the peace process begun in Spain, we are not thereby forgetting the 800 victims of ETA terrorism.
We do not believe that the EU should involve itself in this type of activity.
I supported the Gröner report, on which Parliament voted today, on the 'Youth in Action' programme for 2007-2013.
I want to put on record my support for this report.
As the new Integrated Programme is open to some third countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, Switzerland), it has a huge potential for contributing to intercultural understanding.
I would also like to see the inclusion of the Erasmus Mundus programme in the Integrated Programme as of 2009, when the present programme has run to the end.
in writing. (SV) I wish to take this opportunity to reiterate the June List's rejection at first reading in October 2005.
I voted for this report and welcome the intention to replace the existing Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci, e-learning and other related programmes (which expire at the end of 2006) with a new integrated lifelong learning programme for 2007 to 2013.
I support the creation of four strands Comenius for general education activities in schools, Erasmus for higher education, Leonardo da Vinci for vocational education and training and Grundvig for adult education.
A programme such as Europe for Citizens can be credible only if the European Union does something about the democratic deficit and the lack of accountability towards the European citizens.
Although there are some worthwhile objectives - for example, the twinning of cities, civic projects, various surveys and studies, art events and conferences - there are others that are indicative of unacceptable political influence, such as excluding fascist crimes from support under new Action 4 - Active European Memory.
in writing. (SV) I wish to take this opportunity to reiterate the June List's rejection at first reading in April 2006.
The work on this matter has primarily proceeded from an attitude of incomprehension regarding the low turnout at the 2004 elections to the European Parliament and regarding the fact that the Constitutional Treaty was rejected in referendums in France and the Netherlands.
The work involving local amateur sport organisations within the framework of this programme is redolent of contempt for Europeans.
in writing. - (FR) As early as at first reading, in April 2006, we came out against this report, so significant were the absurdities that it contained.
With a total budget of EUR 190 million, this programme is, indeed, a new propaganda tool in the service of the European Union.
The 'Europe for Citizens' programme ensures the continuity of the civic participation programme established for the period 2004 to 2006.
It responds to the need to improve citizens' participation in the construction of Europe and encourages cooperation between citizens and their organisations from different countries in order to meet, act together and develop their own ideas in a European environment which goes beyond the national vision.
The report also proposes that each Member State draft inventories of all products in which PFOS are used in order to prevent these substances from being released into the environment.
Among the new characteristics of SIS II, its storage capacity has been enlarged to accommodate 27 Member States; it facilitates the storage of biometric data and the European Arrest Warrant, the correlation of data and persons, together with, moreover, the improvement of data protection standards.
The SIS II system will enable the Schengen area to be enlarged to cover the new Member States as quickly as possible, by updating it, increasing its capacity and introducing the new possibilities offered by the most recent technological developments.
in writing. - (FR) The Schengen Information System (SIS) is a police cooperation tool, the purpose of which is to centralise, and facilitate the exchange of, information relating to persons and vehicles, or other items, jointly sought by Member State police services.
It is proposed that we create a second-generation SIS - SIS II - which would be extended to the new Member States.
It seeks to develop new features, extend access to new authorities, interlink alerts between those authorities and introduce new categories of data, such as the arrest warrant and biometric data, and the visa information system, a technical platform for sharing information.
I fully support this motion and abhor the fact that, although the EU guidelines for breast cancer screening were first drawn up in 1992, mammograph screening is currently only offered nationwide in 11 Member States (Belgium, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Hungary, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, Spain and the United Kingdom).
For me it is particularly unacceptable that in Ireland, which has recorded the highest economic growth rates in recent years, about 600 women are victims of breast cancer each year, and a sizeable number of those deaths could be prevented if periodic screening and diagnosis identified the problem early enough.
However, we do expect that rollout to be completed in 2007, although the cervical cancer screening programme won't be completed until 2008 at the earliest - some 15 years later!
The June List's answer to that question is 'no'.
Breast cancer patients often suffer discrimination in the workplace and I hope that, following Parliament's overwhelming vote, the Commission will now draft a charter for the protection of breast cancer patients at the workplace.
in writing. - (FR) Globalisation has been imposed on the peoples of Europe with the assurance that, in the end, they will be the winners because it promotes exports and opens up our competitors' markets just as much as it does ours.
in writing. (SV) The June List believes that free trade is a good thing because it leads to an increase in prosperity for everyone involved.
The Muscardini report is, however, redolent of protectionism, which is why I voted against it in today's vote.
in writing. - (FR) The European Union is worried that the industrial powerhouses of China and India are taking protectionist measures against our exports by using trade defence instruments.
The WTO, which should be acting as a global regulator, is not only powerless but complicit.
