We had invited quite high-level experts such as Nobel Peace Prize winner Rajendra Pachauri, and experts in science, research and, of course, politics.
Finally today we have an outcome in hand which shows us that the report has proved to be very positive.
For that reason, the report also states that it ultimately points the way and indicates the way forward - particularly for Europe, as in Europe we have a vast amount of environmental technology, the volume of which is comparable with the European car industry.
Firstly, let me congratulate the Temporary Committee on Climate Change for all the work it has accomplished since its creation in April 2007: hearings, conferences, reports, resolutions, exchanges with third parties.
The latest resolution, '2050: The future begins today - Recommendations for the EU's future integrated policy on climate change', which was adopted by the Temporary Committee on Climate Change on 2 December 2008, and which you will adopt at this part-session, will again provide a very useful basis when discussing the options for a post-2012 climate agreement and for further deepening the EU's climate policies.
By adopting the climate and environment legislative package at the end of 2008, the EU is sending a very strong political signal to all our partners in the world.
With the adoption of this package in a few months' time, the EU will demonstrate that its commitment, as well as its leadership, in the global fight against climate change is as strong as ever.
Indeed, the EU will be the first region in the world to commit unilaterally to a reduction of its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020.
But, of course, the EU has repeatedly said that it will not settle for 20% - we want to go for 30% - and, therefore, we hope for an ambitious global and comprehensive agreement in Copenhagen.
The decision in Poznań on the operationalisation of the Adaptation Fund represents an important step forward in the negotiations on the financing building block - one of the key elements of any comprehensive global agreement.
The ministerial round table in Poznań also confirmed the shared willingness of both the developed and the developing countries to find an effective globally agreed response to dangerous climate change for the post-2012 period.
The Czech Presidency intends to build on such important achievements and to pursue efforts at international level towards a successful agreement in Copenhagen in December 2009.
On 2 March 2009, the Environment Council, and later the ECOFIN Council and the spring European Council, will be the first opportunities for further developing the EU position in this respect, on the basis of the Commission communication towards a comprehensive climate change agreement in Copenhagen, which we received a week ago, and on the basis of your input.
In addition to the shared vision for long-term action for mitigation technology and adaptation, the identification of appropriate means for financing effective and long-term climate policies will be key in future EU deliberations.
In this context, I can only reiterate the Climate Change Committee's call on the Commission and the Member States 'to adopt, at bilateral level in the negotiations towards a post-2012 agreement, a mediating role between the positions of developed countries, in order to ensure by means of a balance of interest the success of the climate negotiations involving all major greenhouse gas emitters'.
I should like to congratulate the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Florenz, on their exceptional work.
In the run-up to Copenhagen we must muster all our forces and work together so that, given the particular role of Europe, we will achieve the best possible result.
By implementing the target of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases by 20% or by 30%, and provided that the other developed countries accept such reductions within the framework of the international agreement, we shall without doubt be in the most ambitious position of any other country or group of countries.
Before we focus our debate on the international negotiations, I should like to comment briefly on an issue which was very rightly highlighted in the report.
Last year, the Commission made an initial step in this direction by approving the action plan on sustainable production and consumption.
More recently, with measures to complement the package of measures on climate change and energy, it strengthened action to save and make more efficient use of energy.
As far as international negotiations on climate change are concerned, the package of measures on climate change and energy has without doubt strengthened our arguments and efforts to persuade our international partners that taking effective measures is not only necessary but also feasible.
We can and must reach an agreement.
Now, as the international negotiations start to intensify, last week the Commission adopted a communication which includes its positions on the most important points of the negotiations.
He has also announced that there will be a greenhouse gas trading scheme in the United States and that there will be reductions of 80% by 2050 compared with 1990.
The communication by the European Commission confirms the target to reduce emissions by 30% collectively in the developed countries and defines the concept of comparability of effort.
In order to achieve the objective of not exceeding 2 degrees Celsius in 2050, developing countries will need to limit the rate of increase in their emissions by 15% to 30% below those which they would otherwise have recorded had they made no effort to reduce up to 2020.
Finally, the Commission communication stresses the importance of a global carbon dioxide market and the creation, between the countries of the OECD, of compatible trading systems by 2015, while for the economically more advanced developing countries it is proposed that this should happen at a later date before 2020.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SL) Climate change is a vast field and I would agree with the rapporteur when he says that we, members of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, had to find innovative means in order to encompass the full breadth and content of this field.
As a result, the report represents a broad spectrum of opinion and offers many good proposals, but it also enables us to coordinate our continued work in the permanent committees, as regards formulating various sectoral policies.
Personally, I think that it would be a good idea if we pursued this particular methodology.
It has, in my view, become an all-encompassing report with nearly 200 recommendations, and really worthwhile.
I would like to mention five core themes that are really essential for our group.
Secondly, climate policy should also have a social dimension and should show solidarity.
What is also clear is that agriculture does not only pose a problem, it also offers solutions.
Together, we can achieve a great deal.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would also like to compliment Mr Florenz on his effort and commitment in producing this report and, of course, on his ability to listen to, and understand, the many varied and different opinions.
We can become world leaders in our diverse renewable energy fields, which should create a tight, effective and coordinated strategy - including governments, NGOs, academia, business, forward-thinkers - seeking not to talk but to solve.
For example, Ireland could become to ocean wave technology what Finland is to mobile phone technology.
They have taken the risks, and we need to support them through increased funding.
Green technology is our future.
I remember the International Climate Conference in Poznań very well and the very weak role that the Europeans played there, because they were preoccupied with adjusting downwards their ambitious promises and ambitious statements from the international round of negotiations in Bali and, in view of the emerging financial and economic crisis, they were busy relegating climate policy to a lower priority.
I would like to mention three things in particular.
The long-term reduction targets: in paragraph 3, we demand emissions reductions in the EU of between 25% and 40% by 2020 and at least 80% by 2050.
Between 1990 and 2005, emissions from the European transport industry increased by 32%.
Finally, I would like to issue a warning with regard to Amendments 12 and 28, which demand an increase in nuclear energy.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Given that a large part of Western Europe is in the grip of a very cold spell right now, a debate on global warming is perhaps a little ill-timed.
It is true that the world has warmed slightly, although slowly and intermittently, over the last 150 years, but this is entirely consistent with well-established long-term natural climate cycles that gave us the Roman Optimum, the Medieval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age.
This report is a further expression of what has become a permanent concern of the European Union, namely climate change and its consequences.
It is a comprehensive suite of different measures and recommendations which in turn contain different 'road maps' for various sectors, including fisheries, agriculture, water, forestry and so on.
It would be a shame if the next Parliament did not create a similar instrument in the next parliamentary term, not least because in the meantime many national parliaments and governments have restructured their work, with climate change as a specific field.
A success because Parliament has shown itself to be one of the most responsive institutions, equipping itself with an ad hoc instrument - the Temporary Committee - to gather data and ideas on a question that affects us all and the impact of which we must face together, both now and in the future.
However, the full success of the initiative will be determined by the involvement of the economies of all the developing countries, such as China and India.
Progress has been made in this area with the Poznań conference and the decision to put the adjustment fund into operation, as well as the EUR 50 million for research and technological development allocated to developing countries to support the evolution of green technologies at global level.
The latest science tells us we need to be reducing emissions by around 9% year on year.
The targets set out in this report and in the EU's climate package are simply not ambitious enough.
So I commend to you the idea of adopting a green new deal for Europe, a way of addressing both the economic crisis and the climate crisis, with a major investment in energy efficiency and renewables, to create millions of new green jobs in Europe.
President Pöttering, I too would urge you to consider how our work can and should continue in the run-up to Copenhagen.
These reduction targets cannot be met without serious diminution in food production.
The package of climate measures that we have taken perhaps could have been better, but they were a start - they were a step forward.
The Commissioner has referred to the urgent need to talk to the low-income countries in the developing world.
The outcome of inter-group negotiations and discussions is an emerging, ambitious, long-term agenda for action to curb climate change.
We need to anchor the measures in economic policy.
In a few weeks' time, the Council of Ministers will meet to discuss the funding of the decisions that are to be made in Copenhagen - extremely important decisions, which we in Parliament could have had a great deal of influence over.
Without this anchoring in economic policy and in a policy for work and growth, there is a risk of this report becoming 'like a candle in the wind', a nice document, but one lacking the drive and decisiveness that we need when it comes to these issues. - (PL) Madam President, I feel as if I am at the inaugural conference of a newly-founded religion, a false religion, teeming with false prophets and ideas.
In order to survive and develop, mankind needs new, powerful sources of energy, and Europe needs balance and self-sufficiency in terms of its energy supplies.
It is a step ahead of the energy package approved by the Council in December, but we need to go beyond evaluations to specific measures, to regulations, to timetables, because climate change and its consequences are here and there is no time for further delay.
Economic crisis and environment policy can go hand in hand to give us a positive result both for the environment and in creating jobs. - (PL) Madam President, the main aim of environmental protection policies, much like the package of energy and climate policies involving dramatic cuts in greenhouse gas emissions, is to control and change the national economies into what we recognise from past experience as a centrally planned economy.
Now that Poland's industry has been shut down as part of its efforts to meet European Union requirements, attempts are being made to not only force Poles to emigrate, but also to ensure that those who remain become paupers by imposing the highest energy prices of all of the Member States.
As a doctor I am interested particularly in health-related changes such as increases in diseases typically associated with tropical areas.
I have one question for Commissioner Dimas: following our first-reading agreement on my report on the revised EU-ETS six weeks ago, could the Commissioner put on record today exactly what work programme is in train for preparing the comitology decisions, particularly the timing and involvement of this Parliament and the stakeholders?
In conclusion, our target must be at least a 30% decrease in CO2 emissions by 2020 as part of a post-2012 global agreement, with at least an 80% decrease by 2050 - and that is the more important target.
The result of the next eight months of climate diplomacy will write the text of our history books for generations and, as political leaders in our own communities and collectively, we cannot renege on our responsibility.
Commissioner, our climate and energy package must be accompanied by realistic funds, and we look to the summit in March - in six weeks' time - for our 27 leaders of state and government to be on-message and not to let us, the citizens of the EU, and the poorest and most climate-vulnerable communities in our world, down. - Madam President, as this is the end of the work by the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, I want to thank, firstly, Karl-Heinz Florenz for his work, but also - from my own group, the Socialist Group - Riitta Myller, Dorette Corbey and our Chair, Guido Sacconi.
They have all done an excellent job and provided a good basis for the work in the future Parliament.
Dorette Corbey talked about what can be done in the way of energy efficiency measures.
Climate policy cannot stand alone, but needs to be incorporated into all of our legislation.
The EU's Heads of State or Government decided nearly two years ago that the EU should take the lead in order to secure a global climate agreement in Copenhagen.
It could have been more ambitious, but it is in place, and we must now support the European negotiators to enable them to achieve an ambitious goal in Copenhagen.
We need to think long term.
The Commission must work actively to ensure that the rest of the world follows our example, and to make our technologies accessible to developing countries.
But, even knowing this, we are at the same time making it clear, as we have done in the past with other great challenges, that we think we can take on the enormous and urgent challenges that face mankind without help from above.
Well, all I can say is: good luck with it, and may God spare us. - (PL) Madam President, I would also like to congratulate and thank Mr Florenz for his excellent report.
I would just like to return to the subject of the package on climate change, which was adopted in December, and to stress that the European Union really does have a very well-balanced package, which poses no threat to the economy.
This has been our great achievement.
I would now like to state what, in my opinion, are the biggest challenges facing the European Union.
We must now speedily examine it in Parliament.
Bilateral negotiations between two countries - Poland and Denmark - the hosts of COP 14 and COP 15, are not enough.
We all know that the plans to be implemented are huge and that, above all, we must give ourselves the means to change our culture of unbridled development by promoting changes in our economy.
The problem now is to find out how we can implement all the report's recommendations.
The European Commission estimates that an annual investment of EUR 175 billion is required to fight global warming.
Firstly, it is right that the EU should take the first steps to protect the climate, but it is not beneficial to rush on ahead alone without the involvement of partners.
No one currently knows which technologies will best meet the mobility needs of individuals in 50 years' time and politicians certainly do not have any better idea of this than engineers do.
The money saved could be spent on the fight against poverty and on new technologies.
The environmental scientist has had a field day, but the natural world obeys the laws of physics and chemistry, subjects which I taught for 39 years.
The global warming theory has cast CO2, a natural constituent of the atmosphere, as a demon gas.
Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Florenz.
While I support the report, like Caroline Lucas I would have liked to see more attention paid to the most recent signs, which tell us that climate change is both more rapid and serious than we thought just a couple of years ago - contrary to what some colleagues here have said, in particular Mr Helmer.
By the way, a recent screening of more than 900 climate articles in scientific journals - peer review - showed that not one of them questioned the main thrust of the IPCC.
However, there is one concern about our tactics and we need, first of all, to convince society at large and then proceed dynamically to integrate certain productive sectors into the quantum leap by agriculture: that is why we need to remember that agriculture has already been included in the national commitments to reduce emissions by 10% by 2020, that there are already important proposals from the CAP for environmentally-friendly agricultural practices and that international agreements on agriculture must be reciprocal for all international partners.
We have laid the desperately needed foundation for a policy that will be more integrated and ambitious in future, and can count on widespread support, even here in Parliament in the framework of the 20-20-20 objective.
The answer lies in making the economy green and making businesses, households and the government sustainable.
This report calls for an integrated approach that also hangs together territorially.
Fortunately, my amendment on the use of regions and cities has been adopted.
I am opposed to the over-simplified approach towards the agricultural sector in Paragraph 189, though.
However, I think it is a shame that we have excluded large areas of science.
I hope that these radical and misplaced ideologies will not be included in the report.
I will then be able to support the report, as protection of the environment is very important to me, particularly when it can be combined with social achievement and economic competitiveness. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Temporary Committee on Climate Change has done a very good job.
Through the committee's method of working, this report has also succeeded in achieving a horizontal viewpoint.
The ever-increasing worldwide problems with water require a coordinated water management policy from the Member States and the introduction of environmental principles into an integrated management of water resources.
We must initiate programmes for creating surface storage facilities for rain water in forested, agricultural and urban areas through legislative instruments and through non-investment and investment measures which will make a fundamental contribution to rainwater storage in the countryside.
We will prevail in global competition only if we can bring efficient, innovative and intelligent technologies to the market in a transparent manner and without bureaucratic obstacles.
However, this report has the merit that it is a very good summary of what we must consider for the fight against climate change, and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, Karl-Heinz Florenz, who demonstrated such vision in drafting this report.
After the success story of the energy and climate change package, under the French Presidency, we must do all we can to reach a satisfactory international agreement in Copenhagen.
Even if he is right, our whole plan to fight climate change is a response to the serious economic crisis we are now experiencing.
The decline in energy resources, the need for energy security, deforestation, the suffocation of our great cities which are home to the majority of the population, the necessity, therefore, to use sustainable transport, the endless famine throughout the world and the need to nourish the planet; everything supports the solutions proposed to fight climate change.
It will become this through the development of a low-carbon economy, with the support of local communities, business, scientists and all citizens. (RO) The report presents both scientific data and recommendations for combating climate change, referring both to adaptation and the reduction in the causes of this problem.
The 'polluter pays' principle must be applied to all vehicles as well as in emissions trading and the incorporation of external costs.
We would like to thank Karl-Heinz Florenz because with this report we now have a credible, multi-layered roadmap, providing the basis on which we can begin implementing our goals and sit boldly at the negotiating table in Copenhagen, asking everyone to join us. - (PL) Madam President, in the preamble to Mr Florenz's report, which we are discussing today, he refers to his earlier report on the scientific facts behind climate change.
Neither the present resolution nor the one of May 2008 can thus, in any way, legitimise the political decisions of the European Commission, as they lack an objective, scientific approach.
Only a cohesive model of climate change, which takes into account all variables, such as the impact of greenhouse gases, suspended particles and, above all, solar activity, could provide a justification for these decisions.
The report, which contains one-sided information highlighting the hypothetical mechanisms behind global warming, such as CO2 emissions, ignores the need for an international fight against the real impact of climate change.
In my opinion, agriculture is, on the contrary, leading the way in the fight against climate change.
I would like to document the following with a study from Austria from 2008: through plants such as grass, maize and cereals and the soil, agriculture and forestry consume and bind considerably more greenhouse gases than they generate.
According to the study from 2008, the emissions from agriculture and forestry of approximately 8 million tonnes CO2 equivalent per year compare in total with a binding effect of 58 million tonnes CO2 or CO2 equivalents.
Here are some more figures: since 1990, agriculture in Austria has reduced its CO2 emissions by 1.3 million tonnes.
For example, agriculture in Austria consumes approximately 2.2% of the energy generated.
Our greatest challenge now is to establish the next international climate treaty.
The two most awkward issues for the treaty are the emission reduction targets of different countries and how the industrialised countries will contribute to the financing of investments in climate mitigation in the developing countries.
The latest research suggests that a 30% reduction in emissions by 2020 will not be enough - the targets need to be made more stringent.
As for financing climate measures in the developing countries, I regret that in its new communication the Commission still made very general observations and did not propose sufficiently concrete models.
In different contexts, including the debate on the climate package, we in Parliament have shown we are prepared to contribute significantly to the effort to reduce emissions in the developing countries.
This is one of those areas where the EU should also encourage the new President of the United States to adopt a new line.
Up till now, the United States has not said anything about how prepared it is to support emission reduction targets in the developing countries.
The report would perhaps be better without them.
The following paragraph on feed rations ignores the reality of research that has been going on for a long number of years in many Member States seeking to do exactly what it says in this paragraph, which is therefore out of date with reality.
Neither one country, nor a union can separately and independently handle the challenges of climate change.
I would like to shift focus to two facts, without which we are not able to do our work in benefit for the battle against climate change.
Scientific research is our basis.
The transport sector must reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020.
In striving for these goals it is essential to implement a stable package of transport policy measures, which would include ecological innovations, the taxing of CO2 emissions, changes in driving and car use habits and other measures.
I wonder about the future of this report from the point of view of its integration into European policies.
We had a lot of experts in the committee, that is true.
Many of the suggestions that are currently included are fine, but, in my opinion, a lot of them are wrong.
The only solution can be to say 'yes' to innovation and 'yes' to research.
The solution lies in assuming individual responsibility and not in ever increasing state regulations.
In my opinion, many misunderstandings arise from the fact that we, as policy makers, do not have the time - and I apologise if this does not apply to you - to read those 1200 or 1500 pages.
It is important to emphasise that the IPCC has not only been awarded a Nobel Prize, but at the Bali climate conference it was agreed by the 192 participating states that this was the most comprehensive and highest quality scientific resource, the most consistent information at our disposal for deciding on whether and how to react to climate change.
This was the view of the 192 national representatives and this is also my response to some of the suggestions of alarmism, an argument I have become used to in my own country.
If we manage to open all those locks then we will conclude a new global agreement on climate protection to run from 2013.
In my opinion, we have now opened the first lock, which is the European Union.
The next item in my response relates to the fact that we have arrived at an interesting juncture, as EU efforts towards an ambitious and active climate change policy have suddenly come up against the effects of the financial and economic crisis.
Compared to the environmental policy in the 1970s, when we relied on banning and injunctions and mainly employed a so-called 'end of pipe' policy, we find ourselves in 2009 making far greater use of financial instruments to help the environment.
In 2013, electrical energy auctions will gradually take place and by 2015, we want to see a global market in carbon at an OECD level.
Another point I would like to mention is the role of renewable energy sources and also energy saving.
The second option will be possible only through decentralised renewable electricity.
In other words, we who are developing the technology for renewable energy sources in Europe are doing so not only for the developed countries but also in order to increase the number of installations worldwide, to reduce investment and operating costs and to make these technologies accessible to people in developing countries.
I would like to end by assuring you that the Czech Presidency has truly extensive ambitions for achieving progress in the climate change negotiations.
I would like to thank all the speakers in today's discussion for their positive contributions.
As the title of your report indicates, what happens to the world's climate in 2015 and beyond will depend on what action the international community decides now.
A transition to a low-carbon economy is needed at a global scale, and can only be achieved through comprehensive and integrated action to address emissions in all sectors.
For the Commission, 2009 will be a year of implementation: we are working on an implementation road map.
There will be a big stakeholders' meeting in February, and all these deadlines and work programmes are available to you.
But 2009, as I said, is going to be a crucial year for the global climate change negotiations.
However, a deal in Copenhagen is by no means a given: much work remains to be done.
The climate change and energy package gave us a head start in this transition and provided an excellent basis to prove that ambitious climate policy is not only possible but also broadly beneficial to our economies and societies.
The European Union in its climate and energy package has created significant demand for CDM credits until 2020.
However, the poorer the developing countries are, the more they will require further public financial assistance from developed countries.
Without this assistance they will not be able to sufficiently reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Without this assistance the poorest and most vulnerable will suffer the consequences of climate change.
Without this assistance there will be no deal in Copenhagen.
As I have already stressed, the European Union's challenge now is to facilitate the development of such linked carbon markets, in particular among OECD countries by 2015.
I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this debate and all those who have worked with us.
However, climate, food and social crises are also making their impact felt just as much.
As part of our European mandate, it is our duty to persuade our governments to invest more in innovation and new environment-related technologies.
In order to secure economic recovery and better living conditions for our citizens, a complex and ambitious approach is required, fostering innovation and the development of new jobs and businesses in the framework of 'green' technologies.
It is no exaggeration to say that water will be the most important strategic asset of the 21st century.
Europe's environmental protection policy must therefore be applied more rigorously than it has been until now to protect water tables, prevent water and soil pollution and support appropriate handling of natural and artificial water habitats.
Hungary's water resources are excellent and Hungarian hydraulic engineers have been doing a wonderful job for nearly 200 years.
in writing. - (PL) In taking the floor during this debate on climate protection policy up to 2050, I would like to draw your attention to the following points.
Firstly, if the United States and the South-East Asian countries do not join the programme aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions, showing as much commitment as the European Union, then the enormous financial effort involved and the inevitable consequence of a slower rate of economic growth in the European Union will be a very high price to pay for a slight reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.
Secondly, the commitments of individuals countries to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020, along with the need to buy emission permits, will result in a significant increase in the price of electricity and heating for individuals and even higher costs for the industrial sector, especially in the new Member States, such as Poland, where the energy sector relies on coal.
As a result, many industrial sectors which have a high level of energy consumption may be shut down in those countries, entailing a range of negative social repercussions.
Finally, the reductions in carbon dioxide emissions achieved by the new Member States, and by Poland in particular, should be taken into account.
In Poland, the far-reaching restructuring of the economy between 1990 and 2005, resulted in reductions in carbon dioxide emissions of around 30%.
This came at a very high social cost and unemployment remained at over 20% for many years during this period.
Romania was one of the first countries in Europe to have signed the Kyoto Protocol, which meant that it assumed its commitment to support the battle against climate change through reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% by 2012.
I am convinced that we need these measures, although, compared with many other European countries, Romania's level of greenhouse gas emissions is low.
in writing. - I welcome the Florenz Report on climate change which aims to formulate policies for keeping global warming below 2° compared to pre-industrial times.
These proposals plus the measures already adopted by the EU put us in a strong position to argue for global action on climate change at the Copenhagen summit.
I consider very important the observation that the economic and financial crisis and the climate change crisis have the same roots.
However, to be able to implement it at a local, national, regional and global level, we need the support of well-informed citizens.
In the current economic crisis, the EU must commit itself politically and financially in the key areas of maintaining and developing 'clean' technologies for combating climate change, supporting cross-border adaptation measures, boosting energy efficiency and providing assistance in the event of disasters, according to the EU's principle of solidarity.
Ladies and gentlemen, any debate about climate, ecosystems and energy is vitally important because any major change to these can affect life on this planet.
Against this background of climate change, I feel that there are three kinds of projects which EU Member States should be working on and supporting, as a priority: 1.
The European Union has assumed the leading role in the battle against climate change.
Devising a long-term strategy for the effective management of the world's natural resources will help achieve a global economy with reduced carbon dioxide emissions.
Bearing in mind that this sector provides the food resources for the world's population, sustainable management of soil and water resources, combined with protection of forests and biodiversity, will need to feature on the agenda of the long-term strategy for tackling the effects of global warming.
The capital market crisis is not the only pressing problem.
We must also initiate a sustainable programme to combat climate change as quickly as possible.
As large an economic and political association as the European Union is able to establish itself as the leading partner in the fight against climate change.
The top priority must now be the conclusion of the international agreement in Copenhagen, whilst avoiding de-industrialisation and unnecessary burdens on the European economy.
European policy in this area can become more effective at a global level and within the EU if: a) the European effort is supported by the efforts of the other powerful industrialised countries outside the EU, along with countries such as China, India, Brazil, Russia and so on; b) the development of nuclear energy is encouraged and not discouraged, at least in the next 30-40 years, until technology capable of using renewable resources has been developed and the costs make it affordable to market without providing grants; c) the European Commission will give stronger support to projects aimed at saving energy and extracting energy from biomass, including the transfer of technology, in less developed EU Member States with a high agricultural potential.
in writing. - (HU) Green investments must play a key role in state economic stimulus packages intended to counteract the negative effects of the international economic crisis.
It is in Hungary's interest for EU Member States to coordinate and mutually reinforce their efforts in this regard.
The concrete recommendations for action in the Florenz report, such as support for the construction of zero energy, 'passive' houses, the creation of a European fund to support research into renewable energy sources, linking up energy networks at European level and raising awareness among EU citizens and children in particular, all contribute to this shift in social attitude.
