The human rights revolution placed before the international community two closely inter-connected concepts.
In short, it confirms equality for all in claiming their own rights.
The implementation of fundamental rights ought to be an objective of all European policies, and to that end, the EU institutions ought to promote them actively, protect them and take them into full consideration when drawing up and adopting legislation, drawing support from the activities of the Agency for Fundamental Rights.
This agency can make the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights effective and, at the same time, can ensure compliance with the system established by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
Unfortunately, within the European Union we have not always been able, through the political choices made by governments and the legislative activities of parliaments, to ensure the protection and promotion of fundamental rights.
For six years, the European Parliament has not adopted a report on the status of fundamental rights within the European Union, while we have always been quick to point out infringements of fundamental rights outside our territory.
We cannot only draw attention, rightly, to Guantánamo, Abu Ghraib, the infringements in Colombia and in China, and then ignore the infringements that are occurring in our own countries.
A close analysis of the state of fundamental rights in the European Union is liable to confirm the unwelcome conclusion that in Europe, human rights are often protected only in name.
Nobody can argue, Madam President, that in less than ten years, the European area of freedom, security and justice has undergone considerable growth.
From a totally embryonic stage in 1999 - I would remind you that the ambition of the Tampere programme was firstly to lay the foundations of cooperation between the Member States and to promote mutual recognition of judicial decisions - the JLS sector underwent further growth during the Hague programme, which strengthened the Community platform.
It is on this dual basis and under the pressure of dramatic external events - I am not going to talk about the attacks that have troubled us so much and which have caused so many deaths and tragedies - that a number of policies have made spectacular progress: the fight against terrorism and serious crime, the fight against illegal immigration, the fight against racism and xenophobia, and the fight against drugs and drug addiction.
It was by that approach that the Pact on Immigration and Asylum, without overlooking defence and security requirements, opened the way to a more open policy, based on the active management of migratory flows and advances in partnership.
On the other hand, the option is given to any European institution or to any Member State voluntarily to receive opinions from the Agency, with the competences of the different parties being taken into account.
In this context, for the first time, on 3 September, the Council, via the French Presidency, requested the Agency's opinion on the proposal for a framework decision on the use of passenger data by the law enforcement authorities of the Member States, something which comes under the third pillar of the European Union.
Many other points are emphasised in this report, and I cannot go over them all.
In response to Mr Deprez, I am going to start by thanking you for the congratulations you have extended to the French Presidency of the European Union.
This is a very pertinent question, and I myself keep repeating that we need to put our own house in order so as to enhance our credibility outside the EU in the area of human rights.
The Presidency has urged the Member States to ratify, and this has enabled the work within national parliaments to be sped up and a number of texts, including some essential ones, to be adopted.
Protecting fundamental rights in what is precisely a European area of freedom, security and justice is, in fact, an on-going challenge and, like you, I believe that it is specifically through the protection of fundamental rights that developments in the area of freedom, security and justice should be interpreted.
In terms of relaunching the proposal relating to the protection of procedural rights within the context of criminal proceedings, an action plan on the protection of persons within the context of criminal proceedings should be debated next year, and an assessment of the European arrest warrant will take place so that the framework decision can be implemented consistently.
The report that you have submitted is detailed and rich, as the Presidency pointed out.
Mr Catania, fundamental rights are at the heart of European integration, and the Commission is obviously committed to promoting the rigorous respect of these rights in practice.
It is true that we need to do more to promote and apply fundamental rights within the Union.
Your report makes important recommendations, and we agree with you that it is vital to do more to monitor the compliance of legislative proposals resulting from the Charter, to improve the reception conditions of migrants and asylum seekers, to ensure that the fight against terrorism is conducted fully in compliance with fundamental rights, to redouble our efforts to combat discrimination, to improve the situation of the Roma throughout the European Union and, I would also add, to cooperate more closely with the Council of Europe.
The new proposal for a directive on protection from discrimination beyond the workplace is going to supplement our raft of legislative measures.
Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we need to ensure that we include fundamental rights in our texts, but we also need to check how these rights are applied in practice.
The task is very important, and in order to successfully complete it, we need to implement a genuine strategy to ensure respect for fundamental rights within the European Union.
The future multiannual programme, the Stockholm programme, should, in my view, include a communication that defines this policy of respect for fundamental rights within the Union, with a clear explanation of the possibilities and the limits of the Commission's action in this area.
In 2005, the Commission defined a method for checking the compliance of proposals, and we need to further strengthen the application, the use of this method.
It is really important that we keep in mind respect for these fundamental rights throughout our legislative processes.
We can intervene in two ways under the competences laid down in the treaty.
The Romanian Senate has conducted an investigation, which should be supplemented in order to take account of the Council of Europe's second report.
With regard to combating racism and xenophobia, obviously now that we have a text - I am grateful to the French Presidency for enabling us to have this text at last - we have to use it and we have to ensure that the economic crisis does not result in more xenophobia and racism, particularly among certain opinion formers.
The communication on racism and xenophobia could define ways of improving the effectiveness of the action in this area.
The aim is to promote a culture of reconciliation specific to the European Union, a culture based on the recognition of crimes and victims, in order to end the divisions that exist between the new Member States and the old Member States, which are not always sufficiently aware of the tragic history of the former.
Firstly, showing respect for fundamental rights in practice within the Union must become a principle that underpins the entire multiannual programme.
We cannot combat human trafficking without tackling the phenomena in countries in which trafficking often starts.
It is true that the area of freedom, security and justice has progressed, but it is also true that we are at the dawn, as it were, of this real judicial community in which people will be able to move about, within the European area and, at the same time, have their rights upheld, no matter which Member State they are in.
It is true: I entirely agree with what he said in his speech, that sometimes we in Europe arrive at the paradox of defending and attacking the human rights situation anywhere in the world while overlooking unacceptable discrimination in our own countries, because sometimes we do not have the right tools to fight in such a situation.
The rapporteur is witness to the fact that we had some discussions on whether or not this report ought to include other social problems within our society that go beyond human rights.
I believe that in some paragraphs of this report - and much more so in its earlier versions, of course - it suffers a little from trying too hard to resolve everything, not just human rights issues, but every social problem that currently exists in Europe.
The report generally deals very well with the problems affecting children in various fields, most especially the discrimination suffered by children of Roma ethnicity, as well as the need for the media - as has already been mentioned here - and the stakeholders - NGOs and social associations - to be involved in this fight against discrimination.
The 240 proposed amendments to the draft report also point to the multifaceted nature of certain problematic and disputed questions.
In many cases, we still fear for our fundamental freedoms and when it comes to minorities, then we are talking about millions of indigenous minorities, whose fundamental rights are still being infringed in the new Member States.
It is important that this report addresses these as well.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, we all know that the protection of fundamental rights is the cornerstone of the implementation of the European area of freedom, security and justice.
However, although we are quick to denounce human rights in the world, we need first and foremost to be able to put our own house in order, as you said, Minister.
That is why we are now calling for an active policy for combating all forms of discrimination and for ensuring respect for human dignity, particularly in prisons, since humanity often stops at their door.
Let us note, on the other hand, that, in these times of crisis, governments at last seem to be discovering these European citizens who live in poverty and uncertainty, even though they are in work.
Europe must reiterate that all fundamental rights, including social rights, are indivisible.
How, in reality, can people exercise their freedom of expression if they do not have access to housing, if they are out on the street or if they do not have access to healthcare?
In 2004, the European Parliament was assured that there was a group of Commissioners who would concern themselves with fundamental rights.
I am afraid that we have yet to be presented with a report on this; and, unfortunately, we have seen violations of freedom to travel in Italy, of freedom of expression in Member States, and of the right to individual privacy, among other things, in the United Kingdom.
For the future, my group believes that our aim, when preparing such reports, should not only be to mention problems but also to name and shame the Member States where specific fundamental rights are violated.
Of course we can all guess which Member State is concerned when one or other particular human rights violations is mentioned, but we believe that Europeans must know for sure who is ignoring our crucial principle of respect for fundamental rights.
In my country, Latvia, more than 350 000 so-called non-citizens, many of whom were born in the country, cannot even vote in local elections.
Unfortunately this problem was not addressed in the report, due to the principle of not mentioning individual Member States, but I want to stress that refusing long-term residents the right to participate in political life at local level threatens social and political integration.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Europe tends to closely scrutinise human rights in all four corners of the world - and it is right to do so - and that is why we are today celebrating 20 years of the Sakharov Prize.
Once again, the EU's report on human rights is full of self-praise about how much Europe cares about human rights violations wherever these may occur in the world.
In particular, as has been said already, even by our Left-wing MEPs, should the European Parliament not first take the trouble to put its own house in order?
Not in this Parliament, though, it seems. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the Catania report marks an important stage in the life of the European Union, in that it confirms the situation that exists within it.
Finally, Madam President, please allow me to express my personal solidarity with the Vatican concerning the attacks which have been made on it during the debate within this Chamber. (NL) Madam President, today, we once again find ourselves having an important debate on the subject of promoting human rights, setting the tone, as it does, for the position and role of the European Parliament and the European Union.
I should like to focus on one particular topic from the report, namely the situation of the Roma in the European Union.
Madam President, I should like to finish by touching on the subject of Passenger Name Records (PNR) that was broached by Mrs Yade.
This has been the subject of previous debates, and I hope that the Council is prepared, in future, to take Parliament's recommendations on board in this area. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country can truly be seen as a leader in combating discrimination and persecution and, so far as the protection of Roma children is concerned, a subject to which I think the Catania report devotes a lot of attention, we must truly thank the Minister for home affairs, Mr Maroni.
The report ought also to point out the responsibility of Roma families who, instead of sending their children to school, send them out to commit offences and keep them in such a way as to prevent their integration.
Thank you. (SV) Mr President, in the EU Member States and institutions, and in the western world in general, there are serious problems with discrimination against homosexuals, bisexuals and transsexuals.
This is, of course, totally unacceptable and should not happen in 2008.
I believe that human rights are universal and not relative.
We have witnessed how many MEPs have used this report to promote their party agendas by requesting autonomy.
Autonomy has no place within the framework of the European Union and, in the 21st century, autonomy as a political idea has no place in the Lisbon Treaty either.
It contains 167 points across 28 pages.
The report has all the important components as regards fundamental rights.
However, despite a few good points of emphasis, the report does not reflect the current state of human rights.
Now, the report of the Committee on Culture and Education is another thing altogether, as it clearly states its stance on human rights in 12 points.
I believe that he has made a sincere effort to present the situation of fundamental rights as well as possible but, in my mind, this report, despite some truly good points of emphasis, does not meet the minimum conditions for a serious debate, which I very much regret.
This is why, Mr Catania, I think it would be good if you rewrote the report in such a way that it presents a clear picture of where we were in 2004 and where we are today.
There is therefore a very high risk of an increase in xenophobia and racism and a very big threat to social cohesion in the countries of Europe.
We need serious policies for integrating immigrants in Europe, policies which will make both immigrants and their children stop feeling like foreign bodies or which will make others stop seeing them as foreign bodies in our society.
Article 45 falsely states that in the Eastern European Member States, there is a small number of immigrants.
In the event that this report is adopted, we may be obliged to draft immediately another European Parliament report on the protection of the Latvian people and language in Latvia.
That is why I want to congratulate the French Presidency on the initiative at the United Nations on the decriminalisation of homosexuality.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon will be decisive, as its provisions in this area are sovereign and grant competence to the European Parliament and the national parliaments. - (PL) Mr President, the international community addresses the issue of human rights approximately every twenty years.
In 1948, it adopted the International Declaration on Human Rights.
Nearly twenty years later it adopted the Pacts on Human Rights and, in 1989, another document was adopted, namely the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
That is why poverty, which is a form of discrimination which affects so many children in Europe, needs to be eradicated, and why we must combat it in the name of a good and just future for Europe. (PT) Next year, 2009, the new multiannual programme in the area of freedom, security and justice should be adopted.
For example, in terms of judicial cooperation, applying the principle of mutual recognition brings huge benefits to all those moving around in this area, but it should have its counterpart in the adequate protection of the rights and procedural guarantees of individuals throughout the Union, which has not yet happened.
The promotion and effective protection of fundamental rights are at the root of our democracy and should be an ever-present objective across all European policies.
It is in this spirit that they are enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
However, at this time of general economic crisis, I believe that we must pay particular attention to cases of extreme poverty and social exclusion, which are, in themselves, a violation of fundamental rights.
May I remind you that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which we honour after 60 years, recognises the full humanity of the child before birth. (HU) National minorities find themselves in new countries through no fault of their own.
We need to give each EU Member State the opportunity to respect the rights of national minorities.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, in this, the 60th year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Catania report comes just at the right time.
Lastly, the European Union and, more specifically, France, have taken what seem to me to be interesting initiatives.
It is as simple as that, and I believe that it is to the credit of the European Union, of the Member States of the European Union - since many of us support this project - that this initiative is going to be seen through tomorrow at the United Nations.
Let us move on now to another issue, the issue of the Roma and, more generally, of migrants, which several of you have raised.
As you know, on 16 September in Brussels, the French Presidency took part in the first European Roma Summit, which was organised by none other than the European Commission, with the help of the Soros Foundation.
This summit was important because the Roma issue is of common interest to Europeans and calls for a proactive policy - one that is of course adapted to specific national conditions - to be conducted by each Member State.
A second equality summit took place in Paris on 29 and 30 September 2008.
A round table on poverty and exclusion took place on 15 and 16 October 2008 in Marseille with two of my government colleagues.
In short, the Member States of the European Union are paying significant attention to the situation of the Roma community, and I believe and indeed am sure that, from this point of view, our work will be taken further even after the French Presidency of the European Union.
On the broader issue of migrants, then, I should like, as the French Presidency of the European Union comes to an end, to mention the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum and what a success it has been.
For the first time with this Pact, the European Union or the Member States of the European Union will share objectives, will have a common position on this issue, in particular, with regard to the creation of an asylum office, to the biometric visa objective, and to the action required of the European Union when too much pressure is put on a State, especially in the field of immigration.
I should like now to answer a question, a point, a comment concerning Guantánamo and the consequences of its closure, in order to tell you that the European Union has said many times that the fight against terrorism had to be conducted in compliance with the rule of law, that is, with respect shown for human rights, international humanitarian law and international refugee law.
Mechanisms for monitoring human rights within the Member States do already exist, and I believe that using these mechanisms is a way for us not to give in to double standards but to actually put our own house in order, since the Council of Europe and its legal instrument, the European Court of Human Rights, act as driving forces to remind the Member States of the Union and beyond - since the Council of Europe has more members than the European Union - of their duty to point out their shortcomings and to ask them to remedy these.
The Council of Europe is therefore a crucial instrument, a crucial organisation when it comes to the defence and promotion of human rights.
The regulation establishing the Agency expressly provides, for example, that the Agency should cooperate closely with the Council of Europe.
Firstly, I should like to pay tribute to what Mrs Roure said in opening our debate, in saying that, indeed, the Charter of Fundamental Rights has been able to unite social rights and civil rights.
That being the case, I should like to answer some questions on minorities.
We do not actually have any specific powers with which to concern ourselves with minority rights in the Member States but we can combat discrimination against people who belong to a minority.
On the Roma community - I believe that the Presidency has responded on this - I should like to point out in fact that we organised the Roma Summit on 16 September.
The Member States have major responsibilities in this area, and it has taken them a long time to deal with them.
It is true that, today, we are going to try to use all the means at our disposal to really spur on the integration of the Roma community.
To conclude, I should like to say that what I feel is most important - what Mr Deprez was saying is right - is that we must not be guided by fears.
We must recognise that, since the 11 September attacks, there has been this fear of terrorism that has meant that, at times, the protection of rights, individual freedoms and privacy has been lost sight of and that we must, I believe, keep a close eye on this balance.
And then, I would say, by way of conclusion, that, in the field of fundamental rights, our task is not just to establish texts but to ensure that they are applied.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Commissioner Barrot and Mrs Yade for their words in support of my report.
At a time when the economic crisis is intensifying, we must avoid having an outright war within the European Union between poor people, citizens discriminated against because of their social conditions and citizens discriminated against because of their living conditions, or their expectations, or even because of their arrival in the European Union and the fact that they have been welcomed in the best possible way.
Unfortunately, so far, not all of Europe's citizens can enjoy this freedom.
According to the Commission's report of 11 November 2008, there is no conclusive proof to show that a significant number of local workers would have lost their jobs or have had their salary reduced due to workers coming from the new Member States.
I am referring to point 46, which recommends a definition to be laid down for national minorities at a European level, on the basis of Council of Europe Recommendation 1201 (1993).
