Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 15 February 2001.
I now ask you to please stand and observe a minute' s silence. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Agenda Relating to the agendas for the sittings on Wednesday 28 February and Thursday 1 March, I have a number of amendments to put to you, at the request of the political groups.
Madam President, I would like to raise an issue which is closely related to the debate on the future of Europe.
Furthermore, I am delighted that President Prodi is present, and I believe that the Council is also present.
Madam President, I believe that this requires an explanation from you and that you should also approach the very august members of the Council to tell them that, if they want to speak with civil society - in this case the pupils of the school - they must take account of the Parliaments, as they emphasised in the fourth Annex.
Thank you very much, Madam President.
I would also ask President Prodi, who is present, and the Council to give us theirs.
Mr Barón Crespo, it is perfectly clear.
You are well aware that we had indeed been informed that the Council was planning an initiative for 7 March this year, which it hoped would be common to all three institutions.
I even remember, Mr Barón Crespo, your saying at the time that the European Parliament would not just be participating in order to be included in the photo.
To date we have received a few, still only very sketchy details, including the fact that this will take place in a school with the pupils involved.
Madam President, the problem is that the event has been announced and Parliament does not appear on the poster, to put it in artistic and bullfighting terms.
We shall certainly coordinate our efforts to look into this matter and we shall endeavour to take the best course of action in the interest of our respective institutions and also, primarily, of course, in the common interest of Europe.
I therefore call on you, Madam President, not to let this unhappy incident, this unhappy decision pass unnoticed by the European Parliament and urge you to take the necessary initiative.
Thank you, Mrs Karamanou.
As you know, we are fully informed on these matters of waiver of immunity because we receive a great many of them with regard to all countries.
Indeed, I have checked the facts of the matter, and all these requests, with the exception of those originating in Portugal, have always been sent by a government body, be it the Minister for Justice or Foreign Affairs.
The case of Portugal is exceptional; requests from that country may be addressed directly by the judicial authority.
The question, and it is a far-reaching one, as I am sure you can see, is whether the European Parliament can decide between the two arms of Member State authority, the judicial authority and the governmental authority, in order to determine which of the two is the competent body.
Madam President, we Spanish Members of Parliament - all of us - have the right to be judged in Spain only by the Supreme Court, a right that has not been recognised in this case by the Spanish judge because he believes that it concerns a non-Spanish Member of Parliament from a non-Spanish Parliament.
There is only one precedent in my country, which dates from 1991.
Madam President, I am sure that nobody here is suffering an attack of Alzheimer' s, but that some people are surely seeking to manipulate this Parliament for reasons of party politics in their own countries, which I believe we should all oppose, Madam President.
Over the course of this year, the Commission has already discharged two key aspects of the White Paper, the reform of financial management and the new planning and programming cycle for the Commission's work.
Allow me once again to pay tribute to the staff of the Commission and all the institutions for their hard work this year.
It has been a difficult year and I am aware that some sections of our staff are concerned at these rapid, far-reaching changes, which have come on top of an already heavy daily work schedule.
I would, nevertheless, like to take this opportunity to stress a fundamental concept: the reform is not and never has been a political end in itself, to be taken out of its wide institutional and political context, that is.
It is awareness of this uniqueness which underlies the guidelines we have adopted today: to reform outdated rules and customs in order to make it possible for the institutions to deal with the challenges of future years, keeping the European project clearly in their sights.
A large-scale programme of investment in training activities will be an essential complement to the achievement of these objectives.
Basically, the aim of this package of reform initiatives is to enhance the capacities and skills of our staff.
It is the political duty of us all to make this reform a success if we want the institutions - particularly the Commission - to be able play their full role as the driving force of integration in the coming years.
In the twelve months since the Prodi Commission adopted the Reform Strategy White Paper we have achieved significant advance in all those areas.
The people most directly involved have typically worked over 70-hour weeks throughout the last 15 or 16 months.
These proposals are all available to the House.
Fourthly, the working conditions of Commission staff should better reflect the practices of national administrations in the Member States.
Making provision for parental leave for Commission staff for the first time, improving working conditions and facilitating flexible employment arrangements such as part-time working are crucial to achieving equality of opportunity and practice and to improving career development.
We propose a five-fold increase in the budget available for training over the next five years.
It will, however, be a significant advance that can be made without imposing undue pressures on the budget.
For the institutions to continue to discharge their obligations successfully they obviously need to continue to attract high-ability, multilingual staff, the majority of whom will spend most of their professional life in a public service outside their home country.
The Commission considers that the realities of expatriate work and life, of significant responsibilities and of rising demand for scarce skills must be reflected in the rewards package for the staff of the institutions.
Similarly, payment of position premiums for functions that carry particularly heavy responsibility and/or workload is gradually becoming the norm in labour markets throughout the European Union.
We are consequently proposing to cut or to end allowances which have no continuing justification and to keep and, in some respects, improve those which correspond to objective conditions such as expatriate working life, bringing up children and, typically, having to work in more than one foreign language.
In compiling and adopting all of these proposals for consultation, we have naturally given close attention to budgetary implications.
We have made very clear to this House and to the Council that all changes arising from reform and from pay and pension proposals will keep within the limits set by the relevant part of the Financial Perspective established by the Berlin Council in 1999.
Throughout the period of the Financial Perspective to 2006 the costs of the administration as a proportion of GNP will be lower than they were in 1985.
The documents adopted by the Commission today are, as the President of the Commission emphasised, proposals for consultation.
In keeping with the method which we have used on all reform-related proposals each of the documents will be the subject of serious and detailed negotiations with staff representatives and wider consultations with staff over the coming four and a half months.
Clearly, this Parliament, as a legislature, as a budgetary authority and as an employer, will rightly have close interest in all of these developments.
One important aspect and, indeed, a prior condition to making progress on the career structure is that we must reach agreement on a multiannual framework governing movements in unit wage costs allowing the institutions, Parliament, the Commission and the Council to set a robust and structured framework for developing the careers of their staff.
Therefore it is very important that he be here.
I would like Mr Kinnock to explain how he is going to move these forward as quickly as possible, because that warning is as valid now as it was when Parliament approved the report a few months ago.
The reform should proceed as quickly as possible in order to avoid the demoralisation and destabilisation of the staff of the European public service.
In any reform process there is an unavoidable gap between original design and effective implementation.
The four and a half months that we have set aside for those negotiations and consultation allow us to work quickly but thoroughly.
Others, however, must be submitted as formal legal proposals to this House and to the Council.
I have encountered some good arguments and we are always ready to engage in those.
Madam President, Mr Vice-President, I congratulate you on the many proposals you have made, which in my view are entirely along the right lines.
I should like to address two problems.
I will not go into great length but just repeat the point that I made earlier that the willingness to adapt, under extreme pressure with heavy workloads and two very innovatory proposals, demonstrated by the vast majority of Commission staff in the last year is entirely to their credit.
Such people are found in all walks of life - with the single exception of course of the European Parliament, I understand that.
Finally, the externalisation and the approach that we are advocating in company with several honourable Members from all parts of this House - and I pay them tribute - is certainly not a departure from the concept or practice of a permanent, independent and competent European public service.
Secondly, even if the implementation is a lengthy process - you have just mentioned the year 2002 - do you not consider it essential to put systems in place rapidly or, in other words, to phase in the implementation in order to restore confidence in the working methods and the motivation of Europe' s officials.
Even today, our debate starts with an open proposal, a proposal that is not limited to points to adopt or reject but which is the starting point for a discussion - moreover part of our tradition - that will, in the future, become part of a tradition of public administration which is different from that of any individual country.
In order to be brief I will simply say that the Committee of Independent Experts made over 90 recommendations.
I hope and I know that there are those who have this ambition that all institutions can emulate that practice and do so with great rapidity.
So far as the allowances are concerned, there has at present been a provision available to European civil servants since the 1960s which allows them to make transfers of parts of their salaries to their home countries.
The real problem arises from the fact that a co-efficient was built in as a means of providing compensation because of variations between the different currencies of Member States.
The same thing applies to travel allowances established in the 1950s on the basis of the first-class rail fare of an official at least once a year, or even twice a year, to their home country.
Consequently, a system that allows people to claim first-class rail fare twice a year to different parts of the European Union is no longer justifiable.
Madam President, the single most important aim of the reform process must be to turn the Commission into a world-class administration capable of serving the European public.
The first question the Socialists must ask is whether the proposed reforms are good news for staff.
Radical reform of the category system introducing a linear career structure will provide new opportunities for staff especially women and young people.
I just want to ask Mr Kinnock, can we be sure that all these excellent reforms will also be implemented in this House?
Mr President, while the number of deaths in Iraq increases as the result of criminal sanctions and the use of radioactive weapons during the American/British bombings in 1990 and 1998, a new terrorist has moved into the White House and, in a bid to outdo his father and Clinton ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Korakas, we are going to discuss this matter tomorrow.
I should like to emphasise that it is now more necessary than ever to take action on this matter because, in addition to the problems by which it is already affected, Turkey is now faced with a severe political and economic crisis which will signify a setback for the democratic process and will mean that political prisoners in jails will be in an even worse position than they were before.
We have seen today that the Council has taken a unilateral decision to organise an event to launch the debate on the future of the European Union on the seventh.
And it has done so, as we have seen today, without the knowledge of the President of the Commission, and taking his name in vain.
The President said that she was going to consider the issue, and I believe that, in view of what has been heard here, it would be better if the European Parliament did not attend that event, which is nothing more than a marketing stunt, and I would also ask the Commission not to attend.
If we wish to debate the future of the European Union - that great public debate which must take place - we must do so from the outset on the basis of a consensus between the three institutions.
Mr President, I would like to invoke Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure in order to make a personal statement.
As a Spanish Member of the European Parliament and as Socialist coordinator in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, this case falls within my competence, and to some extent I am obliged to raise the matter, because it seems to me absolutely shameful that seven months after the president of the Spanish Supreme Court sent a petition to this Parliament, nobody has even had the courtesy to reply to him.
This was also the case in 1990, when your current group President was the President of Parliament.
Let me make it quite clear, Mr President, that our fellow Member, the President of the European Parliament - who is, after all, the object of your criticism here - has behaved quite correctly, as she has described in her letter to the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The second point concerns Moldavia.
Mr President, I would once again like to invoke Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure in order to make a personal statement.
The Italian electoral process is taking place in Italy, but in Spain, at the moment, we have a president of the Supreme Court who is awaiting a response from this Parliament and so far he has not received one.
I would add that the current function of the plenary sitting certainly does not make it the most appropriate place to go into a question which has been dealt with at length in the Spanish press and has featured in the Italian newspapers, which did, in fact, inform us about the elections.
I therefore feel that the best thing would be to place our trust in these bodies and wait for them to analyse the case properly, seeing as I imagine the matter is of interest to all the Members in this Chamber.
I wonder whether the procedure used would have been the same for the least important Member of this Parliament.
I, too, like Mr Poettering, am in complete agreement on the fact that matters relating to the internal affairs of Member States of the European Union should not be raised in this Chamber.
And then there is the issue which is of crucial interest to us all, as is evident from the discussions and debates held over the last week: an additional EUR 971 million will be released to cushion at least some of the impact of the BSE crisis.
The figure of EUR 971 million is broken down as follows: EUR 700 million will be used to cover the 'purchase for destruction' scheme for cattle over 30 months, EUR 238 million will go towards the buying-in of beef in public stocks, and an extra EUR 33 million will be used to finance the additional BSE tests conducted on cattle over 30 months intended for human consumption.
Let me make it clear from the outset that I am in favour of adopting the Draft Supplementary and Amending Budget, albeit in a modified form.
So I support the draft, although I sympathise with those Members who want to reject this Supplementary and Amending Budget in its entirety.
We spend almost half our budget on our agricultural policy, and almost a fifth of that goes on supporting beef production.
Ladies and gentlemen, two million older cattle are slaughtered every year in Europe.
The real problem of BSE is caused not by large or small-scale businesses or the number of cattle per hectare: the real problem is that Member States have made a mockery of European rules and hence, in fact, have abused the trust of European consumers and farmers.
In that sense, I am bound to say, partly in view of the discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, that Amendments Nos 2 to 5 are not in accordance with the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Agriculture as communicated to the Committee on Budgets.
The Committee on Agriculture agrees with this budget amendment, which is in line with the proposals made by it back in November 2000.
The expenditure ceiling will soon be in sight.
It was decided in the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament to discuss four alternatives for future funding, namely changing the Financial Perspective, saving on the current budget, adjustment of the division of costs between the Union and the Member States or additional funding through levies and discounts.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote for the Supplementary and Amending Budget out of necessity and due to the lack of viable alternatives, because in this crisis situation, urgent action is needed.
The people watching us cannot understand that we are just accepting this without demanding real follow-up measures.
In the coming weeks and months we will be looking very closely at the proposals you submit to us.
Mr President, in my view this debate is taking place in an unreal atmosphere.
We have in front of us a budget relating to the BSE crisis, but know that at this moment a far greater danger is haunting Europe: the danger that foot-and-mouth disease will spread on a large scale.
This would create the extra scope of approximately 300 million euro in the budget for dealing with other calamities in the future and maybe also for financing measures for combating foot-and-mouth disease.
In the view of my group, the greatest threat looming at the moment is the renationalisation of agricultural policy.
Every country will try in its own way to find funds to confront the outbreak of all those diseases.
We must prevent every Member State pursuing its own independent policy: all policy must continue to issue from Brussels and that is why that extra leeway in the budget is necessary.
So I think it is very important, in this decision, to make it clear to the Commission and the Council that we need codecision rights for Parliament in this area at last, that we need to strengthen Parliament, and that we must finally agree on an agricultural policy reform which translates this concept into reality.
The European Union must see its responsibilities through to the end.
In other words, has the European Union gone so far down the path of madness that it would sacrifice the oldest and most complete of its common policies, by which I mean the common agricultural policy, when, paradoxically, it is also imposing and stepping up the integration process in the other sectors.
Once the SAB is adopted, there will be a margin of approximately EUR 500 million.
In the first instance, we must acknowledge the failure of European integration, a failure upon which we must reflect before undertaking further common policies, particularly on a single currency.
But unlike Mrs Haug, I am not prepared to vote in favour of this supplementary budget.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in today's debate on the Commission's supplementary budget, we should distinguish between three separate issues.
Secondly, what must we do in the medium term when this House debates the Agriculture Commissioner's 7-point plan?
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, that applies to you too, since you belong to this party as well.
Unless safety measures are dramatically increased we cannot succeed in restoring consumer confidence, which is critical in the long term to European beef markets.
In the UK now our markets and beef consumption have returned to 1995 levels.
However, to restore confidence, we really need to be clearly targeting our aid and we must encourage Member States to vigorously take up this aid, which to my understanding has not always been the case.
So, if we want to ensure fair play, it is important that we have the same split.
Thirdly, if Parliament votes for this new approach the Council will have to have a second reading and this will only serve to prolong the process until a decision is reached, and this goes against our experience in the UK, which is that you must deal with things quickly and speedily to restore consumer confidence, which is vital to beef markets in Europe.
In conclusion I would like to say that I support the request for the SAB and I think it is important we get Member States to take up this aid.
Mr President, the Supplementary and Amending Budget makes pitiful reading.
It literally means that EUR 700 million in EU funds is to go up in smoke, as this is the amount to be spent on beef that is at risk and that will have to be destroyed.
After the proposal has gone through, the margin will only be EUR 506 million, or just over 1% of the total amount in that category.
I am in favour of dividing the costs in half.
Mr President, Commissioner, the supplementary budget per se and the EUR 971 million are not the problem.
And I say that if the European Parliament had had codecision rights in respect of Agenda 2000, a different decision would have been taken in Berlin.
We would have adopted all these measures which are now back on the agenda, and, Mr Böge, we would then have something which we genuinely could call Agenda 2000 and progress.
When it is brave enough to levy taxes, it will perhaps be able to take on its own policies, but Europe does not levy taxes and there is no question of taxpayers paying twice over, firstly through the Community budget and then through their national budgets.
I agree that the Supplementary and Amending Budget No 1/2001, which makes EUR 971 million available for additional costs arising from the BSE crisis, should be endorsed by Parliament.
I nevertheless feel that the following observations need to be made about this proposal: Firstly, the EUR 971 million that have now been made available are necessary but they are not sufficient.
We have a programme which runs until 2006, with a review in 2002.
The fact that BSE and its impact both on farmers and consumers continues to dominate our political agenda is an indication of the seriousness of the current crisis.
However, the preventive measures that have been put in place such as the ban on meat-and-bone meal should, on scientific evidence, see the elimination of BSE and its threat to human health.
I caution against panic measures in relation to the long-term future of Europe' s beef industry.
We must be optimistic even in the face of crisis and plan for a viable future, albeit within a new framework, in relation to production at farm level.
Mr President, along with the Members of my group, I shall support the proposed Draft SAB.
My second comment is that we obviously need to totally divorce the problems of a complete reform of the common agricultural policy from the problem we are faced with now.
So, let us put aside the problems of reforming the agricultural policy and concentrate on the urgent issues in hand.
There is a serious veterinary problem and a specific medical problem, which is the spread of the disease from livestock to humans.
This has given rise to a whole raft of issues, but this could have happened, for example, in the case of foot-and-mouth disease, if we now discovered - God forbid - that foot-and-mouth can be spread to humans.
The second point is the splitting of the costs between the Member States and the Union.
The Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party has tabled a series of amendments on this point, seeking, as you are aware, to revise the intervention percentages to achieve a 50/50 split between the Union and the Member States.
In the first place, given the difficulties the political world is currently experiencing as a result of the BSE crises, such a decision would appear in the citizens' eyes to indicate withdrawal from the problem by the European institutions.
The Commission also talks about an overhaul of the common agricultural policy in 2002.
More than 40 per cent of the EU' s budgetary resources now already go on agriculture.
Nonetheless, different countries have done a great many different things, and those which have invested to avoid this crisis have themselves borne the costs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament is going to accept this Supplementary and Amending Budget practically in the form in which it has been delivered by the other institution.
Above all, we must make our cattle farmers and public aware that the European Union is a common solution to their problems.
We would do irreversible harm to the process of European integration if we did not find a common response to this general crisis, which is the first truly general crisis in the Union.
Later on we can discuss when we must apply all the principles of Agenda 2000 in the field of agriculture, but now - and I say this again - is not the time to be talking about the future of the common agricultural policy.
This is not the time to be discussing cofinancing rates, and there is therefore a majority in this House which, in principle, rejects the budgetary amendments to the Haug report, despite the opinion of certain people such as Mr Stenmarck.
Agenda 2000 establishes a multiannual budgetary framework, which has been approved unanimously in the Council and by a sufficient majority in the European Parliament.
Would this not therefore be the time to say why the real budget for 2001 is, by a considerable percentage, less than that approved in the Berlin Financial Perspective for this year?
Mr President, I feel that the supplementary budget proposal of EUR 971 million to improve the funding of measures to combat BSE is necessary and fair.
This is what appears to be happening as a result of the amendments now being tabled by the Commission, which seek or propose to amend the bases of cofinancing for support measures for the beef sector.
It has been a painful process, but now is not the time to make a judgment on exactly what in six months' time the consumption will be in Europe.
Mr President, I support the supplementary budget and recognise the need for it.
The question is whether the money is paid through the European Union or through the national governments.
Today agriculture takes about 40%, so as a percentage of GNP the budget of the European Union takes a lot less from the European tax-payers than it did 15 to 20 years ago.
The other point I should like to make is that so many people, by connecting these outbreaks of disease with the common agricultural policy, tend to somehow blame the CAP for the problem.
Even in the poorest regions of this Union and in the poorest cities and towns we do not see hungry children any more because this Union has guaranteed and supplied cheap food of a high quality.
During our debate, we have also heard from many speakers who have made it clear that previous proposals, which were supported by the Commission and the European Parliament, focused very strongly on these goals, but were unfortunately rejected by the Council.
The Commission faced up to its responsibility to make proposals as early as November/December, when the second BSE crisis broke out.
But I also agree with all those who say that spending EUR 6 billion on subsidising production and allocating a further one billion to deal with production - in the sense that we are destroying part of it - also proves that there is an urgent need for action and a new direction in this area.
Let me explain once again what the supplementary budget will be used for: a proportion, i.e. 33 million, will go towards funding additional BSE tests, a significant share will be used for the buying-in of beef in public stocks, and the majority will be allocated to cover the 'purchase for destruction' scheme for cattle.
But the money will go to the farmers, as partial compensation for their revenue shortfall.
But let us be clear on one thing: what we are doing today is securing the funding for a package of measures which were necessary as an initial response to an emergency.
The crisis in the United Kingdom has already reached major proportions.
Thank you very much, Mr Mulder.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
The Commission adopted a safeguard decision the following day, that is on 21 February, at a Commission meeting.
This measure imposed a ban on the export from the UK of certain live animals, that is cattle, sheep and goats, and restrictions on the export of meat, meat products, milk, milk products and certain animal products.
It also provided for a review of the decision of the Standing Veterinary Committee on 27 February.
It is also supported by the farming community throughout the European Union including in the UK, as farmers are conscious of the grave threat to their livelihood from this particular disease.
Unfortunately, the number of outbreaks has continued to increase and currently amounts to 22.
The UK imposed a complete restriction on the movement of livestock in Britain on 23 February in order to reduce the further spread of the disease.
The Commission is obviously keeping the situation under constant review and we are in continual contact with the veterinary authorities in the UK and in other Member States.
Secondly, Member States shall take any precautionary measures including the isolation of susceptible animals and preventive killing of such animals exported from the UK between 1 and 21 February.
The Standing Veterinary Committee gave a favourable opinion to this proposal and it will now be approved by the Commission with a view to entry into force before the expiry of the current decision at midnight on 1 March.
The new decision will expire at midnight on 9 March 2001 and will be reviewed at the Standing Veterinary Committee scheduled to take place on 6 and 7 March.
Obviously, we will be considering all these issues in the coming weeks and months in our investigations into the origins of this disease.
However, we should not overlook the fact that the Community has been hugely successful in achieving its current status on foot-and-mouth disease, at least up to a couple of weeks ago.
Vaccination ended in 1991, which has since saved European farmers over EUR 1 billion.
Since then, there have been no cases other than in Italy in 1993 and a number of incursions of the disease in Greece next to the Turkish border.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Byrne.
As many Members are already scheduled to speak, we shall put the questions in groups of three so that more questions can be answered.
I would like to express to the farming community in the United Kingdom our great sympathy and concern with this situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have two questions.
The next question relates to how the Commission and the European Union is prepared for the travelling ban.
It is the function of the Commission and the legislative authorities in the European Union to put in place legislation at EU level and it is for the Member States on the ground to implement that legislation.
Mr Sturdy then asked me two questions.
The answer to that question is no.
Not that I am tempting providence, Commissioner, but the risk does exist.
Obviously the farmers in the UK and in my constituency where we have a suspected case are absolutely devastated by this in addition to BSE.
I can assure you that, from my contacts with Member States and, indeed, from their own observation of the situation, they are perfectly well aware of the seriousness of the situation.
I understand that approximately EUR 50 million a year are available for this.
The situation is that any third country that has an outbreak of foot-and-mouth in any particular region is precluded from exporting products to the European Union.
With regard to any application for or any authorisation of compensation to the UK, we are awaiting any application for compensation and it will obviously be given the appropriate consideration in the usual way.
Mr President, Commissioner, once again we face a tragic crisis, and I shall add two points to my fellow Members' questions.
I should like to know, Commissioner, whether it would be possible to obtain a list of the countries to which the United Kingdom may have exported live animals that could possibly have been infected with foot-and-mouth disease.
In the event that there is any evidence of fraud in Member States then there is an obligation to investigate this fully.
The Member State in question will be required to do so, and the Commission will have a direct interest in ensuring that was done.
On the question of small abattoirs: I can only repeat what I said earlier that the last case of foot-and-mouth disease in the UK was in the 1960s.
The fact that we have had bigger abattoirs in the meantime over the last 20-year period tends to indicate that there is not necessarily a correlation between big or small abattoirs and the outbreak of foot-and-mouth.
There are 30 million doses of vaccine in the European Union.
The UK has kept my DG fully up-to-date on all developments.
As I said earlier, however, this would only be regarded as a last resort.
We cannot ensure individual identification of sheep and pigs in all instances.
That does not arise in this instance, but I am satisfied that in the event that there is evidence of criminal activity - and I am sure you are referring to the UK when you asked me this question Mr Cushnahan - that the UK authorities will be well aware of the fact that prosecutions of this type are appropriate in the circumstances.
With regard to the last part of your question as to whether I believe it is appropriate for the political party you identify to have restricted its Árd Fheis, firstly let me say that I do not follow the affairs of all small parties in the European Union.
Commissioner Byrne, I should like to go back to the question of imported meat from outside the European Union.
The farmers feel that the gods have deserted them entirely after BSE, and now foot-and-mouth.
We can all agree on one thing: farmers everywhere in the European Union certainly did not need this disease to come upon them at this moment in time, and certainly the farmers in the United Kingdom did not need it at all.
I have been in touch with my local veterinary department.
I should like to emphasise again the very strict controls that exist on imports and the fact that the evidence of no incidence of foot-and-mouth - or very low incidence in one or two countries - is testimony to that fact.
On travel, I confirm that this particular disease can be wind-borne.
I am sure that the whole House will wish you and Commissioner Fischler well in the way you have to face up to all these responsibilities with this dreadful disease at the moment.
Market forces and new technologies have pushed this regulatory process forward, generating results in terms of competition and new operators coming into the market, which have in some cases exceeded expectations.
The approach to regulating the market should be geared to the future state of markets in which the conditions will be much more competitive and diversified, with the rapid spread of innovative services, and focused on the implementation of competition law, to replace the ex ante rules applied on a case-by-case basis.
The management of access and interconnection rights in fact requires a balance to be found between the rights of operators which are infrastructure owners to manage their networks and infrastructures for their own benefit and the rights of other operators, which are service providers, to access to essential facilities.
The proposal for a directive applies the 'new' significant market power' or 'reduced domination' concept, which, its 'negative' feature of hampering competition having been corrected, leaves the field open to ex ante measures.
Obligations imposed on operators: national regulatory authorities may impose obligations of transparency, non-discrimination, accounting separation, access to and use of specific network facilities, and price control and cost accounting obligations on operators notified as having significant market power.
An issue which is particularly close to my heart, as a local administrator apart from anything else, is reducing the number of masts in residential areas.
Then there are other points relating to the different taxation systems, in which area there is a call for harmonisation, and to the need for coordination by the European Commission.
The US economy started to wane and the Union decided to build a Europe that would embrace all its citizens, which is our main strategy.
This auction policy works against this, as now the charges for telecommunications services are rising.
The framework directive is a move towards the regulation of all telecommunications networks and services.
Certain big players in the industry are all for competition in other sectors, but are in truth against it in their own.
The Commission must act when a Member State is not complying with common telecommunications legislation.
We consider that many companies are in a dominant position in markets in which they can, as it were, tacitly agree on the swings in the market that will touch others.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking all my colleagues for supporting my report on the authorisation directive and for proposing a great many extremely useful amendments which I have willingly included in my report.
According to the Commission's fifth and sixth reports on the implementation of the reform package for the telecommunications sector and according to the reports of the European Telecommunication Office, the Member States all have completely different licensing regimes.
The proposal also provides that, in future, service providers will no longer have to furnish comprehensive information.
The change in licensing regimes will ensure that service providers are able to provide their telecommunications services and networks quickly, and without a great deal of red tape, throughout Europe.
Finally, the subject of administrative charges is another crucial point.
Smaller undertakings, with annual turnover of up to EUR 10 million, should be exempt from any charges, thereby making it easier for small and medium-sized undertakings to access the market.
I should therefore like expressly to object to this proposal, which is also contained in Amendment No 33 by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and was adopted in committee by a broad majority.
I personally am positive that the national authorities are closer to the market than the Commission and are therefore better placed to decide how and to what extent the telecommunications markets can be further liberalised on a case-by-case basis.
The liberalisation of the telecommunications markets has been a real success story.
The Commission' s proposal focuses mainly on competition and a level playing field.
This is the reason why we in the Committee on Culture have tabled a number of amendments strengthening this aspect.
It makes perfect sense to want to simplify and organise the current legal framework of no less than 28 different legal texts more clearly.
The market can do a great deal, but it cannot do everything.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the three rapporteurs most warmly for their excellent work and for their first-class manner of cooperation.
I believe that the Commission and the Swedish Presidency have an important role to play in the run-up to the informal summit that will take place in Stockholm on 23 and 24 March 2001.
Secondly, it would be very wise if the two countries that bear the greatest responsibility for the high auction results, the United Kingdom and Germany, were prepared to consider other sources of finance.
Thirdly, it would be a very good thing if Commissioner Liikanen were to sit round the table with all these companies to discuss the question of how the public at large can be better informed about the achievements and potential of the 3G sector, and particularly to examine collectively how, for example through collocation, more effective use can be made of transmission masts, etc., resulting in a reduction in infrastructure costs.
Finally, as part of the sixth Framework Programme we should use a significant part of our financial resources to solve questions such as the new internet protocol 6 (IP 6), e-banking standards, etc.
Fifteen separate national electronic communications markets cannot work.
I would also like to congratulate all three rapporteurs for simplifying reports on a very complicated area.
For me, the emergence of a fully integrated and liberalised telecommunications market by the end of 2001 is the vital precondition for the transition to a digital knowledge-based economy, which I hope will bring considerable growth to the EU.
On the contrary, the new legal framework will serve to enhance competition in this sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank all the rapporteurs warmly for their commendable reports, but also my fellow MEPs for the excellent collaboration in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
The NRAs have an important part to play in this, but in the view of my group the final responsibility should remain with the Commission.
My second point, Mr President, concerns licences for radio frequencies.
In the dividing up of the radio spectrum the licence procedures should be subject to the same conditions in all Member States, because for optimum development of the radio and television market we should aim for a better balance in occupation of frequencies between public service providers on the one hand and commercial providers on the other.
I believe there is also a job here for Commissioner Monti.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens agree with these three reports in principle.
Although telephone charges have gone down in many countries, not all charges have.
For example, in Finland charges for local wired telephone calls have risen by a quarter in the last few years.
Members have already mentioned the costs and the tariffs that are associated with the different structures.
However, we are seeing a new divide being created between the haves and have-nots as regards digital technology and access to it.
One of the key components which must be enshrined within all liberalisation or competition law in this area is the question of universal access for all, so that no matter where anybody is living they have the same access as somebody living in a large urbanised area.
We also need to ensure that people of a different generation from the present younger generation are not disadvantaged because of lack of access to training for this new means of communication and this new information network.
We would, however, like to emphasise the existence, in any case, of a serious contradictory situation affecting the electronic telecommunications sector which, if, something is not done, is likely, in time, to sabotage any endeavours to create a situation of competition benefiting the consumer.
The contradiction lies in the genuine conflict of interests present in many European States, who find themselves in a situation in which they are both regulators and holders of economic and political interests, both referees and players in the game.
Following the result recently achieved with the adoption of the regulation on local loop unbundling, it is now time to find an initial solution to a situation in which any company operating on the European electronic communications market finds that it has to weave its way not only through the layers upon layers of directives and regulations issued over the years but also through a plethora of national regulatory authorities acting under extremely varied legislation according to a very wide range of criteria which the operator cannot even hope to predict, and it therefore finds itself in a situation of fragmentation and, at times, great legal uncertainty.
On the contrary, in my view, the type of licensing procedure and powers set out in this article are more time-consuming and bureaucratic and, in my book, constitute interference in regional affairs in the public-service radio sector, as my fellow Member, Karin Junker, has already said.
The question has been raised, and it is more than a question, it is a choice.
public regulation of networks in Europe, with competing services but alongside the development of a universal service, and, where necessary, possible sharing of infrastructure.
Therefore, we are not favouring indiscriminate national regulation but we are in favour of the rules of competition, even if, for example, the Commission has tried to move towards the concept of a relevant market, which is not supported by the Council and we have to deal with - and the Commission, perhaps, is not moving in this direction - issues on development of a universal service, problems with investment savings and on sharing of the networks so as to be able to reduce costs.
That is something that we need to reflect on between now and the second reading.
I am sure the Commission will remind us of that but I shall resist those sort of temptations when I come back to you in two months time.
The rapporteurs have done excellent work here.
Mr Paasilinna, in his written contribution, posed the question who will regulate the regulator and I think that the role of the Commission is absolutely crucial in this.
I am clear at this stage - and my group will vote against it - that those provisions should not cover 'must carry' provisions and we will be voting against that section of that amendment tomorrow.
Finally, I wonder whether as legislators we really do make good telecoms junkies, to quote Mel Read.
The sole purpose of a harmonised framework is to overcome national barriers restricting the unaccountable spread of supranational monopolies to all the Member States.
The definition of a dominant market position has been the main area of special attention.
Mr President, I too should like to thank my fellow Members for their reports and the Commission.
Once again, we must pause for thought and I am most grateful to Malcolm Harbour and Nicholas Clegg, who have pointed out that they have been wondering in the meantime if the variations which they supported were the right ones and I think that is most intelligent of them.
We have enough time to consider this between now and the second reading; perhaps we shall have found a common approach by then.
Service providers must recognise their role in facilitating access to terminal equipment for disabled users and the framework directive must include, in my opinion, access to terminal equipment and software.
First, on the framework directive, the Commission is very pleased with the Paasilinna report, in particular as regards the consultation and transparency mechanism contained in Article 6.
This is the key provision to ensure that not only national interest drives regulatory decisions but that European interest is also taken into account.
After all, if we do not take into account European interest, we do not serve national interest in this business either.
I am referring here, as many here have already done, to different licensing conditions imposed by Member States for the third-generation services.
However, we consider that the requirement to consult other national regulatory authorities on draft measures is necessary for the creation of the European regulatory culture.
The Commission considers that its original proposal would better serve the fundamental objective of the whole package, which is to minimise regulation but provide regulators with flexible tools to ensure effective competition in every market segment.
On institutional issues, I am convinced that we must involve the European Parliament closely in the process of implementing the new framework.
Thus I regret that the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 72 to 74.
Finally, on digital television, I will soon be inviting the market players to discuss how best to ensure that digital television systems are rolled out swiftly in Europe so that digital television becomes a viable alternative platform for Internet access.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 5, 8, 14, 16, 18, 20, 23, 24, 26, 39, 41 to 44, 49 to 52, 56, 62, 63, 64, 70 to 74 and 76 to 79.
In competitive markets interconnection of and access to networks should, in principle, be agreed on the basis of commercial negotiations.
We have to prove first that the market is not competitive and only then impose ex ante regulation if necessary.
The Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 39 and 40.
To sum up, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 7, 8, 15, 21, 29, 41, 44 and 48.
The Commission can accept in part or in principle Amendments Nos 1, 6, 9, 12, 16 to 18, 19, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30 to 34, 37, 38, 42, 43, 45 and 47.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 to 5, 10, 11, 13, 14, 20, 22, 25, 27, 35, 36, 39, 40, 46 and 49 to 51.
The obligation on Member States to take account of the policy objectives of the whole framework in their systems for frequency pricing is likewise welcomed.
However, on the matter of administrative charges the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 7 and 20.
The Commission is willing, however, to consider some of the elements proposed in the new Amendment No 27 tabled by Mr van Velzen.
To sum up, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 23 and 25.
The Commission can also accept in part or in principle Amendments Nos 8, 11 to 14, 16, 18, 20 to 24 and 26 to 28.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 4, 6, 7, 9, 15, 17 and 19.
Finally, I should like to touch briefly on the situation on the telecommunications markets and licensing for third-generation services.
The current legislation leaves Member States the choice of licensing methods and licensing conditions.
The single market is fragmented.
I am ready to reply positively to Mr Paasilinna' s request for a Commission report later on the licensing issue.
The consultation and transparency procedure of Article 6 of the framework directive, the authorisation directive and the Commission' s proposal for a regulatory framework on radio spectrum policy provide us with the necessary instruments.
The new framework will also allow for secondary trading of radio spectrum which enables more flexible management of this resource.
The European Parliament and the Commission should try to convince the Member States to take a more coordinated approach to frequency assignment.
We have to see that new Internet protocol version 6 will be rolled out swiftly.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this initiative report which we are debating today in Parliament is being produced at the request of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum for women Members of Parliament and is part of the general concept of globalisation which is going to be examined throughout this weekend at the meeting which begins tomorrow in Malta.
The European Parliament took responsibility for producing this report on the effects of globalisation on female immigrants.
The woman comes as a person seeking opportunities that are not available in her country of origin.
These women do not come temporarily in order to resolve a problem, but they come determined to stay, to start a new life in a country which they believe is going to accept them.
There are situations of abuse, resulting from their state of vulnerability in a country with whose language and legislation they are not familiar, living isolated in a world which is difficult for them.
We want these women to live in a legal situation with decent employment contracts so that they cannot become victims of exploitation.
This means that they must be provided with greater information in their countries of origin.
We therefore call for offices to be set up in order to resolve these problems so that these women may come fully informed about the work they are going to do.
I must point out that in the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, certain amendments have been introduced into the report which neither I, as rapporteur, nor my group, agree with.
Citizenship is a national competence of the Member States and I believe that introducing this concept into the report adds little and could, in fact, create legal problems.
We have therefore requested a split vote because we would like to remove this concept from the report so that we can support it without problems.
If it is retained, I think it will be very difficult for us to vote in favour of the report, which would be unfortunate since the report has some very positive aspects for women and is greatly needed given the situation in which the majority of these women find themselves.
My congratulations are sincere because she has been able to deal in a full and balanced way with the consequences which globalisation have had on the world of immigration, specifically for women and in particular for women from the southern region of the Mediterranean.
Globalisation does not necessarily mean well-being and wealth and, in many cases, it is or could be a source of inequality and greater poverty.
In political terms, I believe that we must choose between continuing to hold the view that the Union can continue to resist migratory pressures or accepting that immigration is going to continue and must be adequately regulated, working together to maximise the positive effects of immigration, both for the Union and for the immigrants themselves and for their countries of origin.
The situation is clearly more critical in the case of female migrants.
We know how difficult we are finding it already to advance a meaningful debate on, for example, the idea of coordinating migration and creating a migration policy.
I think, for example, of the reports on trafficking in women and the communication from the Commission on a Community-wide immigration policy, which will shortly be discussed in various committees in the European Parliament.
My group therefore considers that this report is, in fact, too immature and too superficial to provide a substantial contribution to the discussion.
Naturally we agree with gender mainstreaming in this field, but I have problems with the text: in Section 15, the Dutch version speaks of the "channelling of migratory flows to Europe" , while the English text refers to "quotas of migratory flows" .
A second point.
In any case, I feel that a text adopted in Parliament would provide the representatives of the European Parliament with a mandate which may well, so to speak, be less free but more representative: it would be up to the representatives of this House to strike a wise balance between these two criteria.
We therefore welcome these two points.
However, I am much less enthusiastic about the proposal regarding a new observatory.
I will therefore divide the report into two parts: a first part, which I totally endorse, in which the rapporteur extremely courageously raises a major question of legality, managing to pre-empt to some extent in this report the need, which is present in all the European States, to tackle the issue of migration as a whole once and for all, in the knowledge now that the countries of the Union cannot have differing individual policies in such a problematic, sensitive field, and defining the rights and responsibilities of both the immigrants and the host countries.
From this point of view, this aspect of the report is very useful, particularly in that it includes certain guidelines and decisions already expressed by the Tampere Council.
Mr President, every Member State in the European Union applies policies on women and families.
The report should cover these tasks more amply.
This is important to bear in mind when we discuss the problems of immigrant women in Europe.
In its communication on a Community immigration policy presented on 22 November last year, the Commission stated that, in the short term, immigration can be an important element of population growth and could accompany other responses to demographic change.
In December 1999, the Commission launched a draft directive on the right of family reunification which, among other matters, gives family members the right to immediate access to education, vocational training and employment.
The Treaty of Amsterdam explicitly includes gender equality among the objectives of the European Community.
In addition, there are several political decisions which explicitly call for gender-equality concerns to be acted upon in development cooperation.
In order to strengthen the promotion of gender equality as an issue which affects all policies, programmes and projects, I will, in the near future, present to the college a programme of action for the mainstreaming of gender-equality development cooperation.
Trafficking in human beings, and in particular girls and women, not only involves sexual exploitation, but also labour exploitation in conditions akin to slavery.
What gives rise to even greater concern is the increase in the numbers of women and children trafficked into the EU from Central and Eastern European countries.
The promotion and protection of human rights is an integral part of the EU' s human rights policy.
Immigrant women are particularly vulnerable to discrimination and social exclusion.
To secure the rights of immigrant women is now fundamentally about good governance on the basis of shared values in a changing world for both sexes.
The participation of women in political and civil life is fundamental to good governance, whether in Europe or elsewhere.
Structural changes are required to make them more audible.
Many of these things are well-known, well-established challenges.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Another principle is that of responsible, self-administered development, as a cultural factor, of the need for, and the development of a higher standard of living: projects which are self-created, in order to promote the development of local culture and help people to look beyond customs originating from local culture; then awareness of the role of the institutions and the need to involve the private sector in programmes encouraging development; lastly, great, very great attention to the world of children, who, in the political world, are an invisible group of society with no voice or rights; moreover, a powerful role for women, recognising the role that women have always had in society, starting with the family and the work place.
And so, since it has not been possible to produce a coherent report on such a complex work, I feel simply that I must say that the conditions of poor people are worse today than in 1960, that is 40 years ago, that the number of children in school has fallen and that people are not being considered as individuals, as individual people, but that all the poor people in the world are being lumped together as one economic statistic.
A common strategy to confirm the international role of the European Union, given legitimacy by the principles of cooperation and human rights, can only benefit those countries that wish to progress from the level of the helpless or even of victims to the status of partners.
Thirdly and finally, we must make development policy more effective, principally through a more reliable system for the monitoring, control and assessment of programmes and their results on the ground.
It is encouraging that the Commission, of its own initiative, has realised we cannot continue as we have in the past and that new structures and formats have to be found to close the gap between commitments and payments and that better use must be made of developing funds.
But to make best use of development aid there must be closer cooperation between nation states, financial institutions and the Commission.
While budget support to national governments may spend more money quicker, it is much more difficult to police and monitoring will have to be of a high calibre.
The Socialist Group has always argued that development policy should be an essential element of the external action of the European Union and its Member States.
And this is for two fundamental reasons: firstly, because the underdevelopment in which at least 800 million people live strikes us as intrinsically perverse, socially unjust and economically inefficient.
If the Commission wants new forms of governance for Europe in which dialogue with civil society plays a fundamental role, we must help those organisations which are more representative in the development of the European Union.
In summary, we cannot manage this policy in the erratic way that we are doing at the moment.
All of these issues affect our everyday policy.
The Socialist Group of the European Parliament advocates the European Union' s active participation in these conferences and it is therefore necessary for European Community development policy to be effective, coherent and cohesive.
The main question at issue at present is whether we support the six areas of special interest as formulated by the Commission.
That must also be given absolute priority by our Parliament.
Mr President, Community development policy must make it possible to establish a framework for discussion with the European Union' s partners, to coordinate European action with other donors, particularly the Member States and to increase consistency with other Community policies, especially commercial policy and common agricultural policy.
Developing countries are obviously experiencing difficulties in protecting their interests within the international community.
The European Community must make its voice heard in the international courts in order to defend the principle of potentially granting free licences to developing countries that have pressing health care problems.
The continued reduction of the Community budget for development, which is 1.1% smaller in the draft budget for 2002, is also incomprehensible, whereas development cooperation is one of the priorities of the Commission' s Work Programme for 2001.
Secondly, it is hypocritical of the European Union to preach liberalisation of the markets as a universal panacea while bemoaning the fact that the 48 poorest countries have been allowed to export all their products to the Union duty free since the year 2000.
If we want a new European Union for the twenty-first century, then we need a radical change in development policy.
In paragraph 7 of the motion for a resolution, Mr Gemelli splendidly draws attention to the fact that there must be coherence between development policy objectives and decisions taken in the commercial and agricultural spheres, that the EU' s agricultural policy must be revised and that the EU' s markets must be opened to all goods from the least developed countries.
Nonetheless, we have just experienced the incredibly embarrassing fact that, in the 'Everything but Arms' agreement, the EU has postponed free access for sugar right up until the year 2009 and that it has also postponed opening its markets for rice and bananas, in short the most important export goods from the world' s 48 poorest countries.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation has adopted a range of amendments on all three of these points, namely reproductive health, the involvement of developing countries as cooperation partners and the involvement of NGOs and civil society in the decision-making process.
Bush has recently suspended all aid to organisations which, in any way whatsoever, offer advice on contraception and abortion.
The six priority areas listed in the Commission' s report are well chosen.
In essence the international commitments that we made at the Poverty Summit in Copenhagen, are commitments between North and South.
Of course, sensible interaction is required between the Member States, the European Union, the countries concerned and civil society.
On that point we have set important targets, both with the six priorities and with the priorities of the European Parliament for the 2001 budget.
If these fine words can create a climate in which we can not only well formulate a broader policy together, but can also implement it, and if we support the Commission in a coherent way, we have a good chance of succeeding.
But we must build up this side of things; if the Commissioner really shows us that he and his Commission, with the support of the Council, are taking a first step in the direction Parliament wishes, then I believe we have the opportunity to enter a new phase together.
And if people in the developing countries have a good project of their own that deserves support, then we must take that route.
Mr President, one comment from the Gemelli report struck me particularly: on page 22 it is asserted that the trade policy of the European Union has substantially greater consequences for developing countries than development aid.
In fact, that applies to other policy fields too.
The creation of a special budget line is not sufficient to counter negative effects of EU policy on developing countries.
I should like to hear from the rapporteur whether funding of programmes for abortion also falls under this heading.
When the Dutch minister Herfkens asked Commissioner Nielson for a budget for these programmes, he was given a positive answer without further ado.
The European Union has its own limited political priorities and responsibilities.
Mr President, in my turn I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, in which he does indeed get to the heart of the matter, namely the urgent need for greater coherence in the policy pursued, greater coordination between development policy and other policy fields and between European development policy and that of the Member States.
The setting up of a permanent task force to coordinate the development policy of the Union and the Member States and to strengthen the European position in international bodies, is a laudable idea.
The Commission' s action programme on pharmaceutical drugs is commendable but inadequate.
A more fundamental requirement seems to me that the poorest countries should obtain cheaper licences for the production and sale of drugs against basic diseases.
In the almost two years that I have been a Member of this Parliament I have already voted for five reports arguing for greater coherence in development policy.
We support the Commission in drawing up a clearer and concise set of development objectives and then produce a resolution that numbers 68 separate paragraphs in response.
Integration in the world economy cannot be an end in itself in comparison with bringing the poor themselves to market.
EU development policy should be guided by all UN international development targets and not just poverty.
The EU has a key responsibility, for example, in promoting access to education for all, especially girls.
Let us also recall that the Commissioner' s response in this Parliament last year that a communication on coherence had to wait until the overall development policy statement had been agreed.
The protectionist backlash against the 'Everything but Arms' proposal demonstrates only too clearly the need to raise the profile of development objectives in our trade, agricultural and other policies.
The Commissioner and his services have been working closely with me and Parliamentary colleagues in recent weeks to ensure agreement on how to deliver this through the budget.
However, a failure will seriously undermine the principles in this development policy communication and I appeal to him from the floor of the House to continue the dialogue before we reach a set of difficult votes in forthcoming weeks.
The EU has been a willing donor but has, in the past, and I emphasise in the past, failed to deliver effective help when it is required and where it is most needed.
Such failure has left many countries poorer today.
The acid test will be whether the next ten or twenty years of EU aid will reduce poverty substantially - I disagree with the last speaker, we will never eradicate poverty.
The aim is to reduce substantially the poverty and misery experienced by so many.
The Gemelli report attempts to take a fresh approach, a bold approach.
These are the ideas in the Gemelli report which support Commissioner Nielson' s report and good work.
Therefore, this important report should be fully approved by this House because it should improve the efficacy of EU aid.
I would like to take advantage of this time available to me to raise two or three points of a different kind.
We requested an information campaign in Europe on cooperation policy and public aid policy.
Ireland has decided to reach 0.7 at the latest in 2007 so things are moving and some of the bigger countries are, in fact, also trying to increase the level.
Member States have said that they are giving the Commission the benefit of the doubt to see if we can do this better than we used to and they are not squeezing us on funding.
However, I find it more important to have a substantial debate, an ongoing discussion, with Parliament than with anybody else.
This is also part of my approach in dealing with these issues.
We can only offer to do those things in the developing countries that we know how to do.
We have had to limit ourselves to some extent because there are many things we do not know enough about to be delivering good assistance in those fields.
There are some limits to what we can make our obligation and we also have to ensure that it fits in with what other donors can offer.
Mr Rod also mentioned access to medicines.
It should be noted that the Commission has recently taken a number of steps in the follow-up to its communication on AIDS, malaria, TB.
This actually includes some very strong ideas on opening up for a more focused attention on tier pricing and also opening up for bidding and becoming a supplier across the geography for non-OECD companies from, for instance, Brazil, India, South Africa, China which should have access to bids on all our agendas relating to malaria, TB and AIDS.
The Member States have now decided.
We are strongly engaged in this area and the relationship between poverty, conflict, AIDS and gender equality is so strong that we have absolutely no doubt in our mind as to the need to react strongly and immediately to the threat coming from the US Administration in this field.
But we are in a situation where, for once, it is reasonable to say that more of the same is part of the answer.
Otherwise we would have invented something very new and exciting which we could choose to call a wheel or whatever, but the interesting thing is that there is not really much new in what we have done.
We are hooking into the priorities and the ways of working which reflect best practice in the understanding among donors and partner countries in the south.
But it is all obscured by commitments and long-term programmes etc.
Today, almost a year after we did it, I am of a different opinion because first of all the actual process of writing it and having it accepted showed that it was definitely worth the trouble and that debate was necessary to create real ownership in the Commission throughout the different services with regard to these principles.
So, even if it is not revolutionary, I see a strong meaningful value in having it and certainly, as I sense in our discussions over the months between the Commission and Parliament in this field, we have real value in having this shared framework of what it is that we think about when we talk about the development policy paper.
The next thing now is that we are going to use it and the moment is important because together with the launching of the Cotonou Agreement, the hammering out of country strategy papers for each and every one of the 77 ACP countries, we are in business, and we are going to use these principles.
This is where we will be calling the bluff on the reality of the acceptance of focusing on poverty when we come to middle-income non-ACP countries and start looking at the real distribution of what we are spending our money on in these countries.
So, we will have tons and tons of work and a lot of political challenges to correct the course of what we are doing in the coming months and years in this area.
I will continue being very open and frank with Parliament, not to reduce our own responsibility for executing the budget but rather to make sure that there are no misunderstandings as to the size of the challenge and its nature.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again holding - and once again at night - an important debate on the common fisheries policy, specifically on its external aspects, on what we could call the external fisheries policy, by which I mean the European Union' s participation in Regional Fisheries Organisations, which from now on I shall refer to as RFOs for short, and the renewal of a fisheries agreement with a third country, in this case Equatorial Guinea.
The European Parliament is given very little information and, what is even more serious, there is a sense that these consultations with the European Parliament are useless, since we are consulted after the event, when the measures have already been adopted, thereby making a mockery of the role of the European Union' s principal democratic institution.
The European Parliament wishes to participate, together with the FAO, in the definition of new notions, which are more precise and more developed, of undeclared and unregulated illegal fishing, of declarations of catches, of inspections at sea and in ports, of prohibitions of landings etc.
However, we would like the European Parliament to participate more actively in the proposals which the Commission must put forward in these fora, communicating them to the Committee on Fisheries beforehand.
Secondly, not only as rapporteur for these reports, but also, above all, in my capacity as current Chairman of this Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries, I must repeat here once again, Commissioner, our committee' s request, ratified by Parliament, for the administrative structure of the Directorate-General for Fisheries to include within its organisation a specific unit to deal with the management of the populations of these highly migratory species.
Commissioner, if you attended a meeting, either a preparatory working meeting or an annual meeting of one of these RFOs, and saw the resources deployed by other delegations and the resources available to the Community delegation, you would immediately give the order to create such a unit.
I would finally like to refer to the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries in relation to the management expenses arising from the European Union' s membership of these RFOs for highly migratory fish.
Our Committee on Fisheries has considered, and it has been taking this line previously, that if the European Union is to have exclusive competence in the field of the common fisheries policy, the international financial commitments acquired by the Commission, in exercising that exclusive competence, must in turn also be met exclusively by the Commission, by means of the Community budget, and not be passed on to the Member States.
And a policy described as common - as is the case with the fisheries policy - must fully apply the principle of sufficiency of resources which governs it.
These international organisations adopt recommendations regarding, among other things, technical measures on minimum size and weight, time and/or area closures, restrictions on certain gear types or fishing practices and limits to the capacity of some fleets.
The sensible aim of the Commission' s proposal is to draw together, in one regulation, all the technical measures relating to highly migratory species.
Some of them have been in effect for many years while others were only adopted by the regional organisations at the most recent meetings held just last autumn, and we have taken these into account in our report.
The simplest and most objective way to evaluate the efficacy of the technical measures is to look at the status of the stocks which they are meant to conserve.
In summary, management of the tuna and billfish stocks in the Atlantic has been more notable for its failures than its successes and, as the most important fishing power in the region, the European Union must accept its share of the responsibility.
The problem of excessive fishing effort has been noted, and catches of small fish must be monitored in particular.
The simple expedient of imposing a minimum landing size has been demonstrated in ICCAT to be totally ineffective.
When we are eight months away from the final ban on driftnets, when this species has just been subject to a TAC and when the ICCAT' s 1999 scientific report expressly warns against this so-called 'experimental' fishing, the Commission' s intention is quite simply irresponsible, and the tactic of transplanting a recommendation in one paragraph in order to remove its content in the next one is unacceptable.
The intention therefore to limit the presence of boats, whether we like it or not, with a fishing tradition in order to open up the ports to new fleets is completely unacceptable and I therefore ask for your full support for the amendments tabled by the Committee on Fisheries.
Mr President, it only remains for me to thank the rapporteur once again for his collaboration and to congratulate him warmly on his wonderful report.
Furthermore, neither the Commission nor the Member States affected are carrying out parallel diplomatic work in the search for allies, since there is a lack of a cross-sector focus and a joint vision in the Union' s external relations, which leaves our fishing sector unprotected, which is not the case with the fleets of other fishing powers.
A single text and a single regulation require that we have a single management unit.
We also support the request for greater information on the control and monitoring activities carried out within the regional fishing organisations.
The Community and the RFOs must not hesitate to confront them, because the first to be affected by this type of fishing are the resources and the Community fleet, which complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
The Commission must liaise with the sector in order to define the strategy on the management, control and conservation of these highly migratory species.
Lastly, we Socialists believe that the Commission must pursue certain imports, mainly those from Indonesia, which are based on dumping.
Mr President, Commissioner, as the representative of the Member States the European Union plays a major role in regional fisheries organisations.
A cost-benefit analysis for each Member State might be a cause of embarrassment to the rapporteur.
Precisely because of that, the Commission must take a leading role in managing these fish species.
Hence the need for a joint action of cooperation between the regional fisheries organisations and the national governments, in order to prevent shipowners, who feel overburdened by the regulations in force, from deciding to fly a different flag.
In conclusion, may I draw your attention to and emphasise the fundamental role played by the regional fisheries organisations in this matter where, given the huge scope of the subject and the specific local situations, it would be difficult for the Community institutions to respond adequately to the different requirements, as the regional fisheries organisations are able to do.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal for a Council regulation laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of certain stocks of highly migratory species now incorporates measures that were dispersed between various regulations into a single legal framework.
Finally, I wish to thank the two rapporteurs for their excellent work and I hope that their reports will be adopted with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Fisheries.
Amendment Nos 8 and 9 concern technical measures, which we can accept.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
It was therefore decided to extend the protocol by one year and a new protocol was initialled by both parties on 16 June 2000.
This new protocol fixes the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of Community vessels in the waters of Equatorial Guinea during the period 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001.
Although these problems have now been resolved, there was not sufficient time for substantial negotiations to be undertaken.
This should also be the case with Equatorial Guinea.
The three amendments which I have tabled are consistent with the points I have just raised and they are also consistent with the traditional approach of this Parliament.
I would like in conclusion to point out that the Council had already adopted this proposal last Monday.
This is something that all of us on the Fisheries Committee regret.
I therefore ask that you support the three amendments which have been presented by the rapporteur and the Committee on Fisheries.
To begin with, in this protocol, all the items, including those on cooperation with local fishing, are not only itemised, but are set out to the last penny, something which does not happen in other agreements, where any differentiation between what is financial compensation and what is development aid is non-existent.
And in the majority of cases, the mandates for negotiation that have been planned are contingent on the agreement being concluded, as in the flagrant example of Gabon, an agreement which expires on 30 March and whose mandate for negotiation is planned for the fourth quarter of the year.
Mr President, the Socialist Group can only support the proposal to extend the fishing agreement between the Community and Equatorial Guinea by one year.
We are also pleased that, according to news reports from two weeks ago, an agreement has been reached to renew the aforementioned agreement between the Community and Equatorial Guinea for three years.
This is a modest agreement, both in terms of fishing opportunities and in terms of financial compensation - since 1994 it has been restricted to tuna-fishing ships - but it is no less important for that.
The previous protocol contained a financial contribution for grants and aid for units for monitoring fishing grounds and for non-industrial fishing.
The Commission must call on the Government of Equatorial Guinea to act in accordance with the Convention on Maritime Law and with international law.
And while the Commissioner is present and given that six months after the expiry of the agreement, negotiations with Cape Verde have ground to a halt, could he tell me if this deadlock is caused, as the press says, by differences on fishing opportunities and financial compensation, or by the Government of Cape Verde' s unwillingness to allow the Community to tell it what to do with that funding?
I have one specific question for Commissioner Fischler.
To speak of tuna in the North Atlantic, however, necessarily requires us also to take account of the situation in other regions, such as the autonomous region of the Azores, for example, where in 2000, we have just experienced a second year with almost no tuna catches at all.
Secondly, we would also like to know whether the Commission is aware of the crisis spreading throughout the tuna fishing industry in the Azores and Madeira and whether he intends to adopt any measures to combat this.
However, negotiations on a new protocol initially broke down, which is why we agreed with Equatorial Guinea that the old protocol should be extended by a year.
Since 1 July last year, the provisions of the protocol have applied provisionally, as it were, without any change to fishing possibilities or financial compensation.
Nonetheless, I feel that they do not belong in the text of the regulation, as the forwarding of the required reports and information to Parliament is already regulated under the framework agreement signed by our two institutions on 5 July 2000.
Now to the question raised in connection with Cape Verde.
The Greens are voting against this agreement, as we do with all third-country agreements.
The question is in relation to flags of convenience.
The debate is closed.
