Thematic Strategy on the sustainable use of natural resources (debate) The next item is the report by Kartika Tamara Liotard, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
The Commission has taken five years to produce a strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
To be fair, the Commission has clearly identified the problem, namely that if we carry on in this way, we will be irrevocably faced with exhaustion of our resources, and, along with it, a serious threat to our economy and our quality of life.
Working together, we came up with a large number of ideas to improve the Commission's document, and that took us not more than three or four months.
The use of natural resources is of vital importance both for the state of the environment and our economic growth.
This strategy offers an approach to environmental policy which focuses on natural resources on the one hand and a long-term framework for limiting the environmental consequences from the use of natural resources in a developing economy on the other.
Moreover, it aims to improve efficiency when using natural resources.
Whilst some new initiatives are mentioned, such as a data centre for natural resources, a high-level forum and an international panel, the proposed time horizon of 25 years is totally unacceptable.
The report calls on the Commission to replace this non-strategy with ambitious proposals, including clear targets and binding timetables.
That is why I tabled around 25 amendments on behalf of the PSE Group.
And it is not the only method that considerably improves efficiency in using natural resources.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, almost half a century has passed since the first report was delivered in Rome.
If our use of natural resources is to be brought down to a sustainable level and at the same time we make it possible for developing countries to rise out of poverty, the rich countries, such as ourselves, should over a period of 50 years make the ratio between the prosperity achieved and consumption of natural resources ten times greater.
Kartika Liotard's conclusion that we need more quality and less volume could also be a motto for us in our use of natural resources. (SK) I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent work and for the stance she has taken on this question.
I can fully endorse all the points in her report on a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
This calls for a more proactive and radical approach.
The climate changes and energy crisis faced by the European Union call for community action and the creation of a well-structured strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources which are at least in accordance with demands set by the sixth action plan for the environment.
