Situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and rape as a war crime (debate) - The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and rape as a war crime.
We must also remind our own institutions that United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 emphasises the responsibility of Member States to put an end to impunity, and pursue those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes, including crimes relating to sexual violence or other kinds of specific violence against women.
The documents before us state that last year alone 400 000 of its inhabitants were forced to leave their homes.
Over 650 000 people are constantly moving around the country.
We should recall that the largest UN peacekeeping force in the world, consisting of over 17 000 soldiers, is currently deployed in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Nonetheless, I call for funds to be made available for the organisation of a peace conference in Kivu.
author. - (ES) Madam President, the description of sexual violence in Kivu, Congo, produces an unavoidable feeling of revulsion.
The hospital specialises in treating the victims of brutal cases of sexual violence.
We owe it to Lumo and to the thousands of her Congolese sisters to help. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, with today's motion on the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and on rape and violation as a war crime, we are calling on the European Union and United Nations formally to recognise rape, forced impregnation, sexual slavery and other forms of sexual violence as a crime against humanity and as a form of torture.
The violence being suffered by women in the Democratic Republic of Congo is unimaginable.
on behalf of the UEN group. - (PL) Madam President, we are today discussing rape as a war crime in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
We need political action from the UN and the European Union, for if we ... (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Madam President, when I took the floor recently in a debate on sexual slavery in Japan during the Second World War, I also expressed my opposition to the brutal violence against women currently being perpetrated in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The situation is similar in all factions.
It ought to be noted that sexual violence in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo is embedded within the context of persistent conflict and violence in the region.
In addition, the Commission provides significant humanitarian assistance - roughly EUR 40 million per year - to the Democratic Republic of Congo, especially to Uturi and the Kivus.
