The Charter of Fundamental Rights, signed last month in this very Chamber - despite the disgraceful outburst of certain UKIP and Conservative MEPs - provides in its Article 31 that everyone has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity.
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work estimates that every year over 140 000 people in the EU die from occupational diseases and nearly 9 000 die from work-related accidents.
The report reflects this and urges the Commission to ensure that occupational diseases are correctly identified and remedied, with a particular focus on occupational cancers, with a view to setting targets for their reduction.
It is essential that the 1989 Framework Directive be rigorously applied to these groups and other workers who are often ignored, such as agricultural and health care workers, when drawing up and implementing their strategies.
The Member States need to take full account of these groups.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, honourable Members of the European Parliament, I would like first of all to thank Mrs Willmott for the excellent report which she has prepared on the Community strategy on health and safety at work.
The Commission's strategic aim of achieving a 25% reduction in work accidents in the European Union in the years 2007-2012 does indeed require the active participation and commitment, not only of the public administrations, but also of the social partners with their responsibility, at workplace level, for preventing accidents.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 December 2007 an accident at a ThyssenKrupp factory in Turin caused the death of seven workers.
Apparently, Member States which promote a free market are psychiatric cases. (FR) Madame President, the suicides of Renault and Peugeot workers in France and the thousands of cases of lung cancer among people whose jobs involve contact with asbestos are clear evidence that health at work is a problem.
Luckily, the rapporteur for the Committee on Industry has solutions to offer, including the employment of a psychologist and a chaplain for every 500 employees.
We are responsible for such inadequacies in every place of work.
In conclusion I also believe we must come back to the subject matter of the Green Paper on corporate social responsibility, which is a cohesive and innovative aspect, in relation to the commitment to reduce occupational accidents and diseases. (CS) To start with I would like to thank Mrs Willmott for her very carefully prepared report.
Women are the main victims of this shortcoming, primarily because they are more involved in informal, or "grey", economy.
I congratulate the rapporteur. (DE) Madam President, health in the workplace must be given priority.
If he does agree, I wonder whether he can explain why it took a full year for the Commission to manage and assess the first round of consultation with the social partners on needlestick injuries, even though there were only 10 responses in that consultation.
The vote will take place today, Tuesday 15 January 2008, at 12 p.m.
in writing. - (FR) I should like to begin by congratulating the European Commission on its Community strategy on health and safety at work 2007-2012, and on the work achieved by our Parliamentary Committee.
Every year, almost 500 000 people die or suffer permanent disability for work-related reasons, and we must applaud the European Commission's goal of achieving an average 25% reduction in work-related accidents in the EU.
